VILLAGE CODE
of
OAK LAWN, ILLINOIS
1985
Code current through:
Ord. 25-12-38, passed July 22, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Oak Lawn, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 25-12-38, passed July 22, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-13-44
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 3, CHAPTER 3 (LIQUOR CONTROL), SECTION 3-3-6
(CLASSIFICATION OF LIQUOR LICENSES, CLOSING HOURS)
OF THE VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN VILLAGE CODE
 
 
TERRY VORDERER, President
CLAIRE HENNING, Village Clerk
 
TIM DESMOND
ALEX G. OLEJNICZAK
PAUL MALLO
JAMIE PEMBROKE
WILLIAM R. STALKER
RALPH SOCH
Board of Trustees
____________________________________________________________________________________
_
 
 
 
VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-13-44
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 3, CHAPTER 3 (LIQUOR CONTROL), SECTION 3- 3-6
(CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES, CLOSING HOURS)
OF THE VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN VILLAGE CODE
                            
WHEREAS, the Village of Oak Lawn (the "Village") is a home rule municipality,
having all of the powers and authority granted to such municipalities pursuant
to Article VII, Section 6 of the Illinois Constitution of 1970, including the
right to exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its
government and affairs; and
 
WHEREAS, the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, provides that the
corporate authorities of each municipality may pass all ordinances and make all
rules and regulations proper or necessary, to carry into effect the powers
granted to municipalities, with such fines or penalties as may be deemed
proper; and
 
WHEREAS, the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.) (the “Act”)
grants to the Village the power, by general ordinance or resolution, to
determine, among other things, the number, kind and classification of licenses
for sale at retail of alcoholic liquor not inconsistent with the Act, the
amount of local licensee fees to be paid for licenses issued, the penalties for
the violation of regulations and restrictions relative to operation under local
licenses, and to establish such further regulations and restrictions upon the
issuance of and operations under local licenses not inconsistent with law as
the public good and convenience may require; and
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority granted under the Liquor Control Act of 1934
(235 ILCS 5/6-1 et seq.), and in accordance with the home rule authority
granted to home rule municipalities pursuant to Article VII, Section 6 of the
Illinois Constitution of 1970, the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Oak Lawn find that it is in the best interests of the Village, its
officials, employees, residents, property owners and the public to approve the
amendments to the Village of Oak Lawn Village Code as set forth below:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN, COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
 
SECTION ONE: Recitals.  Each of the Whereas clauses above are incorporated by
reference into this Section 1 and made a part hereof as material and operative
provisions of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION TWO: Code Amendments.  Title 3, Chapter 3 (Liquor Control), Section 3-
3-6 (Classification of Licenses, Closing Hours) of the Village of Oak Lawn
Village Code is amended to read as follows, with additions underlined and
deletions stricken through:
“ 3-3-6: CLASSIFICATION OF LIQUOR LICENSES, CLOSING HOURS:
 
CLASS “LIQ-C” CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES (COP): The Class “LIC-C” COP License
applies to and encompasses establishments operating in the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor to be consumed on premises, such as taverns, bars, nightclubs,
pubs, lounges, full-service restaurants, hotels, banquet halls, theaters, for-
profit clubs and bowling alleys, and includes the following previous liquor
license classifications: A, AV, E, EV, G, GV, H, HV, I, IV, J, JV, K, KV, L,
LV, M, MV, Q, QV.  No alcoholic liquor shall be sold, given away, or offered
for sale in, upon, or about the specified licensed premises between the hours
of (1) two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays and
Saturdays, (2) two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. on Sundays
for alcoholic liquors for consumption on said premises.
A “full-service restaurant” shall be defined as any public place kept, used,
maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place where meals are
actually and regularly served, with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining
room equipment and with adequate staff to take orders, prepare food, and serve
the food in a full-service operation rather than a fast food service operation.
The principal business of a “full-service restaurant” is the service of said
meals and said service of meals shall constitute at least sixty percent (60%)
of the gross income of the establishment, as distinguished from the principal
business being the service of alcoholic beverages with service of food as a
supplement to the service of alcoholic beverages.
 
CLASS “LIQ-C-BW” CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES (COP) – BEER AND WINE ONLY: The Class
“LIC-C-BW” COP License applies to and encompasses establishments operating in
the retail sale of beer and wine only to be consumed on premises, such as
taverns, bars, nightclubs, pubs, lounges, full-service restaurants, hotels,
banquet halls, theaters, for-profit clubs and bowling alleys, and includes the
following previous liquor license classifications: BV, F, FV.  No alcoholic
liquor shall be sold, given away, or offered for sale in, upon, or about the
specified licensed premises between the hours of (1) two o’clock (2:00) A.M.
and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays and Saturdays, (2) two o’clock (2:00)
A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. on Sundays for alcoholic liquors for
consumption on said premises.
 
A “full-service restaurant” shall be defined as any public place kept, used,
maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place where meals are
actually and regularly served, with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining
room equipment and with adequate staff to take orders, prepare food, and serve
the food in a full-service operation rather than a fast food service operation.
The principal business of a “full-service restaurant” is the service of said
meals and said service of meals shall constitute at least sixty percent (60%)
of the gross income of the establishment, as distinguished from the principal
business being the service of alcoholic beverages with service of food as a
supplement to the service of alcoholic beverages.
 
CLASS “LIQ-P” PACKAGED GOODS LICENSE: Establishments and Retail Stores. The
Class LIQ-P Packaged Goods Licenses described below apply to and encompass
establishments operating in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor enclosed in the
original manufacturer sealed and labeled container/package, such as liquor
stores, grocery stores, drugstores, and convenience stores, and include the
following previous liquor license classifications: A, B, D, Q, and S. The Class
LIQ-P Packaged Goods Licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor enclosed in the original manufacturer sealed and labeled container/
package, not for consumption on the premises where sold.
 
Effective as of July 1, 2025, as a condition to obtaining and maintaining a
Class “LIQ- P1” or Class “LIQ-P2” Packaged Goods License, licensees are
required to install, maintain, and operate a high-resolution video surveillance
security system within the licensed store premises, which shall record the
activities within all parts of the licensed store premises and shall function
twenty-four (24) hours a day and be linked to the Village’s Axon Fusus security
monitoring system. Licensees shall have until December 31, 2025, to install
such video surveillance security system and link it with the Village’s system.
Licensees shall post signage notifying patrons and employees that the store
premises are under video surveillance.
1.   CLASS “LIQ-P1” PACKAGED GOODS LICENSE: Establishments and Retail Stores,
other than Convenience Stores, e.g., Liquor Stores, Grocery Stores, and
Drugstores. The Class “LIQ-P1” Packaged Goods License shall authorize the
retail sale of all alcoholic liquor in its original manufacturer sealed and
labeled container/package only, not for consumption on the premises where sold.
No alcoholic liquor shall be sold, given away or offered for sale in, upon or
about the specified premises so licensed between the hours of two o’clock (2:
00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays and Saturdays and two
o’clock (2:00) A.M and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Sundays.
 
2.   CLASS “LIQ-P2” PACKAGED GOODS LICENSE: Convenience Stores Only. The Class
“LIQ-P2” Packaged Goods License shall authorize the storage, distribution, and
retail sale of alcoholic liquor, and single servings of beer, in their original
manufacturer sealed and labeled containers/packages only, not for consumption
on the premises where sold, as an adjunct to a convenience store. However, the
holder of a Class “LIQ-P2” Packaged Goods License shall be prohibited from
selling any hard alcohol or spirits in quantities of less than one- fifth (1/5)
of a gallon, as well as single servings of beer larger than thirty-two (32)
ounces. Single servings of beer shall be kept in a locked display case at all
times during which the sale of beer is permitted, and with only the cashier or
other authorized store employee able to unlock said display case. The area set
aside for liquor sales shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the floor area
of the convenience store. For purposes of determining the allowable beer and
wine sales area, the licensee shall submit a floor plan of the convenience
store at the time of application for the license. Areas of the convenience
store, to which access by customers is prohibited, shall not be counted in the
floor area calculation. All beer and wine on display for sale shall be kept in
a locked display case at all times during which the sale of beer and/or wine is
prohibited, with only the cashier or other authorized store employee able to
unlock said display case. All extra beer and wine stock shall be kept in a
storage room, with access limited only to store employees. No more than two (2)
signs, banners, posters, or any combination thereof, advertising beer and/or
wine, shall be visible from the exterior of the convenience store. Beer and/or
wine may only be sold, given away, or offered for sale in, upon, or about the
specified premises so licensed between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M.
and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on weekdays and Saturdays and between the hours
of nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. and eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. on Sundays.
 
CLASS “LIQ-M” MANUFACTURER’S LICENSE: The Class “LIQ-M” Manufacturer’s License
authorizes the manufacture, production, storage, and sale of alcoholic liquor
on the licensed premises, and the sale of retail alcoholic liquor, as well as
the sale of alcoholic liquor-related products, and includes the following
previous liquor license classifications: R, T, V. Class “LIQ-M” licensees may
sell alcoholic liquor they manufacture to wholesalers, licensed retailers, and
directly to consumers for off premises consumption in packaged form only. Class
“LIQ-M” licensees may also purchase bulk wine for blending purposes from
licensed out-of-state wine sellers. All alcoholic liquor must be manufactured
and labeled in accordance with Federal regulations from the U.S. Department of
the Treasury Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (“TTB”) (formerly, the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms) and/or any other applicable federal agency.
Licensees must obtain and maintain all required Federal, State and local
licenses and permits, as applicable. Nothing in the issuance of a Class “LIQ-M”
license shall be considered to relieve the licensee of any responsibility for
complying with all applicable Federal, State and local laws and regulations
relating to the manufacture, production, storage, and/or sale of alcoholic
liquor products. No alcoholic liquor shall be sold, given away, or offered for
sale in, upon or about the specified premises so licensed between the hours of
two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and eleven o’clock
(11:00) A.M. on Sundays.
 
CLASS “LIQ-NP” NON-PROFIT LICENSE: The Class “LIQ-NP” Non-Profit License shall
authorize the retail sale on the specified premises of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on said premises only, and such license shall be authorized only
for issuance to not for profit clubs and organizations including, but not
limited to, the Knights Of Columbus and Veterans Of Foreign Wars  and includes
the following previous liquor license classification: K. No alcoholic liquor
shall be sold, given away or offered for sale in, upon or about the specified
premises so licensed between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock
(11:00) A.M. on Sundays.
 
CLASS “LIQ-SE” SPECIAL EVENTS ONLY LICENSE: The Class “LIQ-SE” Special Events
License shall authorize the sale or giving away of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold or given away at any specific event
sponsored by any club, organization or individual and includes the following
previous liquor license classification: C. No alcoholic liquor shall be sold,
given away or offered for sale in, upon or about the specified premises so
licensed between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. on weekdays and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. on
Sundays. All Class “LIQ-SE” licenses shall expire ten (10) days after the date
of issue.
 
CLASS “LIQ-S-VG” VIDEO GAMING SUPPLEMENTAL LIQUOR LICENSE: A Class “LIQ-S-VG”
Video Gaming Supplemental Liquor License shall authorize eligible liquor
license holders to conduct video gaming, as defined under the Illinois Video
Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., on their licensed premises, so long as the
licensee also has a video gaming license issued by the Illinois Gaming Board
pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Video Gaming Act and all the rules,
regulations, and restrictions imposed by the Illinois Gaming Board; provided,
video gaming shall not be permitted during the hours alcoholic liquor sales are
prohibited. A licensed establishment that already holds a liquor license which
authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the licensed
premises (hereinafter the “primary liquor license”), shall be eligible for the
Class “LIQ-S-VG” Video Gaming Supplemental Liquor License to conduct video
gaming on the licensed premises, in accordance with the rules and regulations
of the Illinois Gaming Board license and the primary liquor license. The Class
“LIQ-S-VG” Video Gaming Supplemental Liquor License is required in addition to
the establishment’s primary liquor license, and includes the following previous
liquor license classifications: BV, EV, FV, GV, HV, IV, JV, KV, LV, MV, QV, RV,
VV. Video gaming, as defined under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., shall not be allowed in an establishment
without the Class “LIQ-S-VG” Video Gaming Supplemental Liquor License.
 
 
All new liquor licenses issued and all liquor licenses renewed after the
effective date of this section shall be in compliance with the above classes
and shall accurately reflect the nature of the licensee's actual business.
 
Any person holding a valid liquor license as of June 30, 2025, shall not be
required to submit a new application for a liquor license; instead, any person
holding such a valid license may apply for a renewal of its primary Liquor
License in the manner provided by this chapter and will receive its renewal
license under the new corresponding classification, so long as all other
requirements of this Code pertaining to the renewal of liquor licenses are met
and the applicable renewal fee is timely paid.
 
Any person holding a valid liquor license in the following classifications as
of June 30, 2025, shall not be required to submit a new application for a Class
“LIQ-S-VG” Video Gaming Supplemental Liquor License, if such person has either
received or applied for a video gaming license issued by the State of Illinois:
Class AV, BV, EV, FV, GV, HV, IV, JV, KV, LV, or MV; instead, any person
holding such a valid license and has either received or applied for a video
gaming license from the State of Illinois may apply for a renewal of its
primary Liquor License and an add-on CLASS “LIQ-S-VG” Video Gaming Supplemental
Liquor License in the manner provided by this chapter and will receive its
renewal license under the new corresponding classification along with the CLASS
“LIQ-S-VG” Video Gaming Supplemental Liquor License, so long as all other
requirements of this Code pertaining to the renewal of liquor licenses are met
and the applicable renewal fee is timely paid.
 
(Ords. 14-09-18, 14-23-50, 14-28-67, 15-14-56, 15-19-76, 15-19-77, 16-10-29,
18-07-22, 18-23-78, 19-11-31, 19-13-42, 23-21-87)”
 
 
SECTION THREE: Severability.  If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of
this Ordinance is held invalid, the invalidity of such section, paragraph,
clause or provision shall not affect any of the other provisions of this
Ordinance.
 
SECTION FOUR : Repealer.  Any policy, resolution or ordinance of the Village
that conflicts with the provisions of this Ordinance shall be and is hereby
repealed to the extent of such conflict.
 
SECTION FIVE: Effective Date.  This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
from and after its passage and approval in the manner provided by law.
 
   ADOPTED this 26th day of August 2025, pursuant to a roll call vote as
follows:
 
   AYES: Trustees Stalker, Soch, Pembroke, Olejniczak, and Mallo
   NAYS:    
   ABSENT: Trustee Desmond
 
APPROVED by me this 26th day of August 2025, and attested by the Village Clerk
on the same day.
 
_______________________________
                         Village President
ATTEST:
 
____________________________
Village Clerk
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            ) SS
COUNTY OF COOK      )
 
CLERK'S CERTIFICATE
 
      I, Claire Henning, Village Clerk of the Village of Oak Lawn, in the
County of Cook and State of Illinois, certify that the attached document is a
true and correct copy of that certain Ordinance now on file in my Office,
entitled:
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-13-44
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 3, CHAPTER 3 (LIQUOR CONTROL), SECTION 3-3-6
(CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES, CLOSING HOURS)
OF THE VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN VILLAGE CODE
 
which Ordinance was passed by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Oak Lawn
at a Regular Village Board Meeting on the 26th day of August, 2025, at which
meeting a quorum was present, and approved by the President of the Village of
Oak Lawn on the 26th day of August, 2025.
 
   I further certify that the vote on the question of the passage of said
Ordinance by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Oak Lawn was taken by Ayes
and Nays and recorded in the minutes of the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Oak Lawn, and that the result of said vote was as follows, to-wit:
 
   AYES: Trustees Stalker, Soch, Pembroke, Olejniczak, and Mallo
   NAYS:    
   ABSENT: Trustee Desmond
 
   I do further certify that the original Ordinance, of which the foregoing is
a true copy, is entrusted to my care for safekeeping, and that I am the lawful
keeper of the same.
 
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the
Village of Oak Lawn, this 26th day of August, 2025.
 
                        _____________________________
                        Claire Henning, Village Clerk
 
[SEAL]   
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-14-46
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 11 (MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC), CHAPTER 9
(BICYCLES/TRICYCLES) OF THE OAK LAWN VILLAGE CODE RELATIVE TO LOW-SPEED
ELECTRIC BICYCLES AND ELECTRIC SCOOTERS
AND OTHER RELATED CHANGES
 
 
TERRY VORDERER, President
 
CLAIRE HENNING, Village Clerk
 
TIM DESMOND
ALEX G. OLEJNICZAK
PAUL MALLO
JAMIE PEMBROKE
WILLIAM R. STALKER
RALPH SOCH
Board of Trustees
______________________________________________________________________________
Published in pamphlet form by authority of the President and Board of Trustees
of the Village of Oak Lawn
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-14-46
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 11 (MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC), CHAPTER 9
(BICYCLES/TRICYCLES) OF THE OAK LAWN VILLAGE CODE RELATIVE TO LOW- SPEED
ELECTRIC BICYCLES AND ELECTRIC SCOOTERS
AND OTHER RELATED CHANGES
 
WHEREAS, Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of
Illinois provides that any municipality which has a population of more than
25,000 is a home rule unit, and the Village of Oak Lawn, Cook County, Illinois,
with a population in excess of 25,000 is, therefore, a home rule unit and,
pursuant to the provisions of said Section 6(a) of Article VII, may exercise
any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs,
including, but not limited to, the power to tax and to incur debt; and
 
WHEREAS, the Illinois Vehicle Code (“Vehicle Code”), 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.,
provides a regulatory framework concerning the use of low-speed electric
bicycles and electric scooters; and
 
WHEREAS, the Village of Oak Lawn (“Village”), pursuant to its home rule powers
and the provisions of the Vehicle Code, deems it necessary to amend Title 11
(Motor Vehicles and Traffic), Chapter 2 (General Provisions), and Chapter 9
(Bicycles/Tricycles), of the Oak Lawn Village Code (“Village Code”) to provide
for the regulation of low-speed electric bicycles and electric scooters within
the Village; and
 
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Oak Lawn find
and declare that it is in the best interest of the Village and its residents to
revise and amend Title 11 (Motor Vehicles and Traffic), Chapter 2 (General
Provisions), and Chapter 9 (Bicycles/Tricycles), of the Village Code, as
provided herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
OF THE VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN, COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
 
SECTION ONE:   The foregoing recitals shall be and are hereby incorporated as
findings of fact as if said recitals were fully set forth herein.
 
SECTION TWO:   Title 11 (Motor Vehicles And Traffic), Chapter 2 (General
Provisions), of the Oak Lawn Village Code is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows, with additions underlined and deletions stricken through:
“CHAPTER 2 GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Definitions
11-2-2: Applicability Of Provisions
11-2-3: Obedience By Public Officers And Employees, Exceptions
11-2-4: Police Authorized To Direct Traffic, Obedience Required
11-2-5: Bicycles, Low Speed Electric Bicycles, Electric Scooters, Animals,
Animal Drawn Vehicles
11-2-6: Traffic Control Signs And Signals
11-2-7: Accidents, Requirements
11-2-8: Regulations In Semipublic Areas
11-2-9: Automobile Parts, Possession And Sale By Police Department
11-2-10: Fleeing, Attempting To Elude Peace Officer
11-2-11: Opening Doors Into Traffic
11-2-12: Obstructing Traffic
11-2-13: Injurious Substances On Streets
11-2-14: Riding On Certain Vehicles Prohibited
11-2-15: Clinging To Moving Vehicles
11-2-16: Use Of Coasters, Roller Skates
11-2-17: Obstructions To Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
11-2-18: Following, Parking Near Fire Apparatus
11-2-19: Enforcement, Violations, Penalties
11-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this Title shall, for the purposes
hereof, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Section:
ALLEY: A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department,
and ambulances and emergency vehicles of Municipal departments or public
service corporations as are designated by the Chief of Police or authorized by
Illinois Compiled Statutes.
BICYCLE: Every human-powered device and every low-speed electric bicycle, as
defined in Section 1-140.10 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, (625 ILCS 5/1-
140.10), as amended, with 2 or more wheels not less than 12 inches in diameter,
operable pedals, and designated seats for the transportation of one or more
personsEvery device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is more than sixteen inches (16")
in diameter.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory of the Village, contiguous to and including a
street when within any six hundred feet (600') along such street there are
buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including but not limited
to hotels, banks, or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings
which occupy at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or
three hundred feet (300') collectively on both sides of the street.
CHAUFFEUR:
   A.   All persons employed by another for the principal purpose of driving a
motor vehicle, and
   B.   All persons who drive a school bus transporting children, and
   C.   All persons employed in connection with the operation of any school,
day camp, summer camp, or nursery school, who drive any motor vehicle
transporting children to or from any school, day camp, summer camp or nursery
school, and
   D.   All persons who drive any motor vehicle when in use for the
transportation of persons or property for compensation;
Except, the term "chauffeur" shall not include any person who operates a road
machine, a farm tractor or a motor vehicle incidental to some other and
principal occupation where the motor vehicle is operated solely and in
furtherance of such other and principal occupation, provided that the motor
vehicle is not used for the transportation of passengers or property for hire.
COMBINATION OF VEHICLES: Every combination of vehicles includes any combination
of two (2) vehicles, any combination of truck tractor with semi-trailer drawing
one trailer, and any combination of a truck in transit drawing two (2) trucks
in transit coupled together by the dual saddle-mount method.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
CONTROLLED ACCESS STREET: Every street or highway in respect to which owners or
occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of access to
or from the same except at such points only as may be determined by the public
authority having jurisdiction over such street, highway or roadway.
CROSSWALK:
   A.   That portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the prolongation
or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks on opposite sides of the street
measured along curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of the
traversable roadway.
   B.   Any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing
by lines or other markings on the surface.
CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
DEPARTMENT: The Department of Public Works and Buildings, of the State of
Illinois, acting directly or through its duly authorized officers or agent.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE: A self-balancing two (2) non-
tandem wheeled device designed to transport only one person with an electric
propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of the device to 15 miles per
hour or less.
ELECTRIC SCOOTER: A device with 2 or 3 wheels, handlebars, and a floorboard
that can be stood upon while riding, that is solely powered by an electric
motor and human power.
EXPLOSIVE: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportion,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion, or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled.
FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Any liquid which has a flash point of seventy degrees (70o)
Fahrenheit or less, as determined by a tagliabue closed cup test device.
FREIGHT LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of material or passenger.
GROSS WEIGHT: The weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any load
thereon.
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or located on public school property.
HOUSE CAR or CAMPER: Any motor vehicle that is originally designed or
subsequently altered, equipped for human habitation, which is not used to
transport property on its own structure other than property used for human
habitation or camping purposes.
HOUSE TRAILER:
   A.   A trailer or semi-trailer which is designed, constructed and equipped
as a dwelling place, living abode or sleeping place (either permanently or
temporarily) and is equipped for use as a conveyance on streets and highways,
or
   B.   A trailer or semi-trailer whose chassis and exterior shell is designed
and constructed for use as a house trailer, and defined in paragraph A above,
but which is used instead permanently or temporarily for the advertising,
sales, display or promotion of merchandise or services, or for any other
commercial purpose except the transportation of property for hire or the
transportation of property for distribution by a private carrier.
IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY: Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry, provided that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer or like vehicle having a capacity of more than four hundred (400)
bushels or a gross weight of more than thirty thousand (30,000) pounds, shall
be included hereunder.
IMPROVED STREET: Whenever the term "improved street" is used in this Title, it
shall be construed to include roadways of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
gravel.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) streets which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL: An electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a
square or rectangular design and employing distinctive colors or symbols used
to control the direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the
indication applies.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
LICENSE TO OPERATE A MOTOR VEHICLE: Any operator's or chauffeur's license or
any other license or permit to operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of
this State including:
   A.   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
   B.   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle whether or not
such person holds a valid license;
   C.   Any nonresident operating privilege as defined herein.
LOCAL TRAFFIC: Vehicular traffic travelling to a specific destination on any
street or highway designated by the posting of an appropriate sign designating
"Local Traffic Only".
LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE: A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals and
an electric motor of less than 750 watts and that meets the requirements of one
(1) of the three (3) classifications set forth in Section 1-140.10 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-140.10):
(a)   “Class 1 low-speed electric bicycle” means a low-speed electric bicycle
with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and that
ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
(b)   “Class 2 low-speed electric bicycle” means a low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the bicycle and
that is not capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of
20 miles per hour.
(c)   “Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle” means a low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling
and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 28
miles per hour.
A low-speed electric bicycle is not a moped or a motor-driven cycle.
LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC SCOOTER: A device weighing less than 100 pounds, with 2 or 3
wheels, handlebars, and a floorboard that can be stood upon while riding, that
is solely powered by an electric motor and human power, and whose maximum
speed, with or without human propulsion, is no more than 10 miles per hour.
 "Low-speed electric scooter" does not include a moped or motor-driven cycle.
LOW-SPEED GAS BICYCLE: A 2-wheeled or 3-wheeled device with fully operable
pedals and a gasoline motor of less than one horsepower or 15 cubic centimeter
displacement that is operated at speeds of less than 20 miles per hour.
MERGING TRAFFIC: A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on converging
roadways to permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction thereof,
wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his vehicular
speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any other vehicle.
METAL TIRE: Every tire the surface of which in contact with the highway is
wholly or partly of metal or other hard nonresilient material.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground
but excluding a tractor.
MOPED: A motor-driven cycle, with or without optional power derived from
manually operated pedals, whose speed attainable in one mile is at least 20 mph
but not greater than 30 mph, and is equipped with a motor that produces 2 brake
horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is used, the displacement
shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeter displacement and the power drive system
shall not require the operator to shift gears."Moped" is an abbreviated term
for a motorized pedal-cycle. This vehicle may be pedaled like a bicycle or may
operate on engines like a motorcycle. Motors are limited to a maximum of fifty
(50) cubic centimeters piston displacement, producing a top speed of not more
than thirty (30) miles per hour on level ground and having two (2.0) brake
horsepower or less. All such vehicles shall have as accessory equipment a
rearview mirror and turning signals.
MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE: Every motorcycle, including and every motor scooter, every
bicycle with motor attached or motor bicycle, with less than one hundred fifty
(150) cubic centimeters piston displacement including motorized pedalcycles.
MOTOR SCOOTER: Any two (2) or three (3) wheeled motor vehicle having a wheel
diameter not in excess of nineteen inches (19") and designed to travel on not
more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, but excluding a tractor.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human otherwise than
by muscular power, including but not limited to motorcycles, motor-driven
cycles, pole trailers, reconstructed vehicles, road tractors, school buses,
semitrailers, special mobile equipment, specially constructed vehicles,
tractless trailer coaches, trailers, trucks, truck tractors motorized
wheelchairs, low-speed electric bicycles, and low-speed gas bicycles. Motor
vehicles which are designed and used for the carrying of not more than ten (10)
persons shall be classified as motor vehicles of the first division. Motor
vehicles of the second division shall consist of Tthose motor vehicles which
are designed for carrying more than 10 persons, those of the first division
which have been remodelled for use as vehicles of the second division,
any motor vehicles designed or used for living quarters, and those motor
vehicles which are designed and used for pulling or carrying freight, cargo or
implements of husbandry, and those motor vehicles of the First Division
remodelled for use and used as motor vehicles of the Second Division. or which
are used for the carrying of more than ten (10) persons, shall be called motor
vehicles of the second division. 
MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR: Any self-propelled vehicle, including a three-wheeled
vehicle, designed for and used by a person with disabilities, that is incapable
of a speed in excess of eight (8) miles per hour on level ground.
OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall mean
the time standard currently prevailing.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices not
inconsistent with this Title placed or erected by authority of a public body or
official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding
traffic.
OPERATOR: Every person, other than a chauffeur, who drives or is in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle upon a highway or who is exercising control
over or steering a vehicle being towed by a motor vehicle.
OWNER: A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject to an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the condition stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this Title.
PARK: When prohibited means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE: A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, or corporation.
PNEUMATIC TIRE: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
POLE TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole,
or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and ordinarily
used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles, pipes or
structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as beams
between the supporting connections.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner not by other persons.
RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars, operated upon stationary
rails.
RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL: Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of a
public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
REGISTRATION: The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates issued under the laws of this State pertaining to the registration of
vehicles.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory of the Village, contiguous to and including a
street not comprising a business district when the property on such street for
a distance of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
RESIDENT: Every natural person who resides in this State shall be deemed a
resident of this State. In the case of a firm, copartnership or association, if
the principal place of business of such firm, copartnership or association is
located in the State of Illinois, then such firm, copartnership or association
shall be deemed a resident of the State of Illinois. In the case of a
corporation, if the corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of
Illinois or if the principal place of business of such corporation is in the
State of Illinois, then such corporation shall be deemed a resident of the
State of Illinois.
REVERSIBLE LANE: A lane of a two (2) or more laned roadways upon which traffic
may be directed to move in either direction by means of lane-control signals or
other devices, in conjunction with official signs.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles
and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any
part of the weight of the vehicle or load so drawn.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a street
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle owned or operated by or for a public or
governmental agency or by or for a private or religious organization for the
transportation of pupils in connection with any school activity. This
definition does not include a bus operated by a public utility or a Municipal
corporation authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers.
SEMI-PUBLIC AREAS: Parking and adjacent roadways and areas near or contiguous
to schools, park district property, shopping centers, drive-ins, theaters or
other commercial establishments within the corporate limits of the Village
whereon public, pedestrian and vehicular traffic is invited for ingress, egress
and parking.
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
SPECIAL MOBILE EQUIPMENT: Every vehicle not designed or used primarily for the
transportation of persons or property and only incidentally operated or moved
over a highway, including but not limited to: ditch digging apparatus and road
construction and maintenance machinery such as asphalt spreaders, bituminous
mixers, bucket loaders, tractors other than truck tractors, ditchers, levelling
graders, finishing machines, motor graders, road rollers, scarifiers, earth
moving carryalls and scrapers, power shovels and drag lines, and self-propelled
cranes and earth moving equipment. The term does not include house trailers,
dump trucks, truck mounted transmit mixers, cranes or shovels, or other
vehicles designed for the transportation of persons or property to which
machinery has been attached.
SPECIALLY CONSTRUCTED VEHICLE: Every vehicle of a type required to be
registered not originally constructed under a distinctive name, make, model or
type by a generally recognized manufacturer of vehicles and not materially
altered from its original construction.
SPEED-CHANGE LANE: An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes.
STATE HIGHWAY: Whenever the term "State highway" is used in this Title, it
shall be construed to include the highways, as defined as provided in the
Illinois Highway Code 1, as the same may from time to time be amended.
STINGER-STEERED SEMI-TRAILER: Every semi-trailer which has its kingpin on a
projection to the front of the structure of such semi-trailer and is combined
with the fifth wheel of the truck tractor at a point not less than two feet
(2') to the rear of the center of the rearmost axle of such tractor.
STOP: When required means complete cessation from movement.
STOP, STOPPING or STANDING: When prohibited means any stopping or standing,
even momentarily, of a vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
STREET or HIGHWAY: The entire width between property boundary lines of every
way publicly maintained, or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public, as a matter of right,  for purpose of vehicular
traveltraffic other than public ways for vehicular traffic within a park
district for which the park district has maintenance responsibility.
SUBURBAN DISTRICT: That portion of this Village other than the business and
residence districts.
THROUGH STREET or HIGHWAY: Every street or highway or portion thereof on which
vehicular traffic is given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to
which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to yield right of way to vehicles on such through streets or highways in
obedience to either a stop sign or a yield sign, when signs are erected as
provided in this Title or the State of Illinois.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other conveyances
either singly or together while using any street for purpose of travel.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices not
inconsistent with the "Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways" 2 placed or
erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction for the
purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternatively directed to stop and
to proceed.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a
quarter of a mile.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title under
Section 3- 101(d) of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/3-101(d), as
amended, except devices moved by human power, or devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks, and snowmobiles.
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign means the act of granting
the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic
within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left, but
when the roadway is clear may proceed into the intersection.
(1951 Code 4-1-1 - 4-1-16; Ords. 319, 70-3-2, 78-20-51, 92-19-69)
 
Notes
 
1 1. S.H.A. 225 ILCS. 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
2 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS 5/11-301 et seq.
 
11-2-2: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   To Vehicles on Streets: The provisions of this Title relating to the
operation of vehicles refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon
streets or in places normally open to the public for purposes of vehicular
travel except:
      1.   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section.
      2.   The provisions of Section 11-2-7 and Sections 11-3-2, 11-3-4 and 11-
3-6 of this Title shall apply upon streets and elsewhere throughout the
Village.
   B.   Effect on Rights of Property Owners: Nothing in this Title shall be
construed to prevent the owner of real property used by the public for purposes
of vehicular travel by permission of the owner and not as matter of right from
prohibiting such use, or from requiring other or different or additional
conditions than those specified in this Title, or otherwise regulating such use
as may seem best to such owner. (1969 Code 13-2, 13-7)
11-2-3: OBEDIENCE BY PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES, EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this Title applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon
the streets shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the
United States, this State or any county, city, town, district or any other
political subdivision of the State, except as provided in this Section and
subject to such specific exceptions as are set forth in this Title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   B.   The driver of any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call upon approaching a red or stop signal or any stop sign, shall
slow down as necessary for safety but except otherwise provided in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-1421, may proceed cautiously past such red or stop sign
or signal. At other times drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall stop
in obedience to a stop sign or signal.
   C.   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any special
privilege under this Title except when such vehicle is operated in response to
an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected
violator of the law.
   D.   The provisions of this Title, with the exception of Section 11-2-
7 hereof and Sections 11-3-2, 11-3-4 and 11-3-6 of this Title, shall not apply
to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in
work upon the surface of the highway but shall apply to such persons and
vehicles when traveling to or from such work. (1951 Code 14-4-22)
11-2-4: POLICE AUTHORIZED TO DIRECT TRAFFIC, OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this Title, or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a
policeman. Except in cases of emergency it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by the Chief of Police to direct or attempt to direct traffic. (1951
Code 14-2-18)
 
11-2-5: BICYCLES, LOW SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES, ELECTRIC SCOOTERS, ANIMALS,
ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES:
Every person riding a bicycle, a low-speed electric bicycle, an electric
scooter, or an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle, upon a roadway shall
be subject to the provisions of this Title applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except those provisions of this Title which by their nature can have
no application. (1951 Code 14-2-17)
11-2-6: TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
   A.   Obedience to Traffic-Control Devices Required: No driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the instructions of any traffic-control device placed in
accordance with the provisions of law or this Title, unless at the time
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   When Signs Required: No provision of this Title for which signs are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official sign is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that signs are required, such section shall
be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
   C.   Manual, Specifications for Traffic-Control Devices: All traffic-control
signs, signals, and devices shall be made and erected to conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the State Department of Public Works and
Buildings. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the
Village. All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the
provisions of State law or this Title shall be official traffic-control
devices.
   D.   Avoiding Traffic-Control Devices Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person to leave the roadway and travel across private property to avoid an
official traffic-control device.
   E.   Unauthorized Signs, Signals or Markings: No person shall place,
maintain or display upon or in view of any street any unauthorized sign,
signal, marking or device which purports to be or is an imitation of or
resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad sign or signal, or
which attempts to direct the movement of traffic nor shall any person place,
maintain or display upon or in view of any street any other sign which hides
from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the effectiveness of
any traffic-control devices or any railroad sign, or signal, and no person
shall place or maintain nor shall the Village permit upon any street any
traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising, and any
policeman may remove or cause to be removed any such sign or signal.
   F.   Interference with Traffic-Control Devices, Railroad Signs or Signals:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, interfere with, or remove any official traffic-control
device, or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia
thereon, or any other part thereof. (1951 Code 14-4-21, 14- 4-25, 14-4-26; 1969
Code 13-9, 13-10, 13-11, 13-24)
11-2-7: ACCIDENTS, REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Involving Death or Personal Injury:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at the
scene of such accident, or as close thereto as possible and shall then
forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at, the scene of the
accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of subsection C herein. Every
such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
      2.   Any person who has failed to stop or to comply with said
requirements shall, within forty eight (48) hours after such accident or, if
hospitalized and incapacitated from reporting at any time during such period,
within forty eight (48) hours after being discharged from the hospital, report
the place of accident, the date, the approximate time, his name, address, the
registration number of the vehicle driven, and the names of the occupants, if
any, of such vehicle, at a police station or sheriff's office near the place
where such accident occurred. No report made as required under this subsection
shall be used, directly or indirectly, as a basis for the prosecution of any
violation of subsection A1 of this Section.
   B.   Involving Damage to Vehicle: The driver of any vehicle involved in an
accident resulting only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by
any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or
as close thereto as possible but shall forthwith return to and in every event
shall remain at the scene of such accident until he has fulfilled the
requirements of subsection C herein. Every such stop shall be made without
obstructing traffic more than is necessary. Failure to comply with this
subsection is punishable in accordance with subsection 11-2-19C.
   C.   Give information, Render Aid: The driver of any vehicle involved in an
accident resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle
which is driven or attended by any person shall give his name, address, and the
registration number of the vehicle he is driving and shall, upon request and if
available, exhibit his operator's or chauffeur's license to the person struck
or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with and
shall render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance,
including the carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of such
person to a physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment,
if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is
requested by the injured person.
If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this subsection is
in condition to receive and understand such information and no police officer
is present, such driver after rendering reasonable assistance shall forthwith
report such accident at the nearest office of a duly authorized police
authority, disclosing the information required by this Section.
   D.   Duty on Striking Unattended Vehicle: The driver of any vehicle which
collides with any vehicle which is unattended shall immediately stop and shall
then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle
of the name and address of the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the
unattended vehicle or shall leave in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck
a written notice giving the name and address of the driver and of the owner of
the vehicle doing the striking and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
   E.   Duty on Striking Fixtures or Property on Streets: The driver of any
vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage to fixtures or other
property legally upon or adjacent to a street shall take reasonable steps to
locate and notify the owner or persons in charge of such property of such fact
and of his name and address and of the registration number of the vehicle he is
driving and shall upon request and if available exhibit his operator's or
chauffeur's license and shall make report of such accident when and as required
in subsection F1 of this Section.
   F.   Reports Required:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident within the Village, resulting in injury to or death of a person, or in
which damage to the property of any person, including himself, is sustained,
shall, as soon as possible forward a written report of such accident to the
Police Department.
      2.   The Police Department may require any driver, occupant or owner of a
vehicle involved in an accident of which report must be made as provided in
this subsection or subsection J of this Section, to file supplemental reports
whenever the original report is insufficient in the opinion of the Police
Department, and may require witnesses of the accident to submit reports to the
Department.
   G.   Immediate Notice Required: The driver of a vehicle which is in any
manner involved in an accident described in subsection F of this Section shall
immediately and by the fastest means of communication submit notice of the
accident at the nearest office of a duly authorized police authority.
   H.   Reports By Police: Every Village policeman who investigates a vehicle
accident, of which a report is required by this Section or who prepares a
written report as a result of an investigation either at the time and scene of
such accident or thereafter by interviewing participants or witnesses shall
forward a written report of such accident to the Police Department.
   I.   False Reports: Any person who provides information in an oral or
written report required by this Section with knowledge or reason to believe
that such information is false shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   J.   Failure Of Driver To Report: Whenever the driver of a vehicle is
physically incapable of making a required accident report and if there was
another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of making a
report, such occupant shall make or cause to be made said report. If such
driver fails for any reason to make such report, the owner of the vehicle
involved in such accident, shall, as soon as he learns of the accident, make
said report.
   K.   Reports Not Prejudicial: All required accident reports shall be without
prejudice to the individual so reporting and shall be for the primary use of
the Police Department.
   L.   Police To Investigate Accidents, Arrest Guilty Parties: It shall be the
duty of the Police Department to investigate traffic accidents and to arrest
and obtain prosecution of those persons guilty of violation of law causing or
contributing to such accidents.
   M.   Filing Of Accident Reports: The Police Department shall maintain a
suitable system of filing traffic accident reports, and shall file such
accident report or cards referring to them alphabetically by location. (1951
Code 14-10-75, 14-12-80)
11-2-8: REGULATIONS IN SEMIPUBLIC AREAS:
   A.   Regulation Of Driving, Parking, Pedestrians: The Police Chief and
Village Manager shall designate loading zones, safety zones, lanes and
direction of travel and parking, turning restrictions, speed limits and zones
(to include 15 miles per hour limits), caution areas and location of signs or
other standard markings controlling the movement of vehicles within semipublic
areas. Necessary regulation of pedestrian traffic may be established. The
owners of the semipublic area shall pay for the cost of installation and
maintenance of said signs and markings.
The following manner of driving shall be prohibited within semipublic areas:
      1.   In disregard of any sign, signal, marking or device erected,
constructed or created by the Village or any public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic, or
contrary to the order or direction of any police officer or other person duly
authorized to direct or regulate traffic; or
      2.   At a rate of speed or in any manner that is unreasonable or
imprudent having regard to the traffic and use of the area, conditions of the
weather, visibility, condition of the roadway and other surrounding conditions,
so as to endanger the life or limb or injure the property of any person; or
      3.   In such a manner as to cause or produce unnecessary load, raucous,
excessive or unusual noise by the racing of the motor, by lack of a muffler or
use of a muffler cutout, by tire friction upon rapid turning or weaving, by
spinning of the wheels from standing or slow moving position produced by sudden
unnecessary motor acceleration, or by continuous unnecessary sounding of a horn
or other signal device; or
      4.   In such a manner as to deprive or unreasonably interfere with the
equal rights of any other person to the use of such semipublic area.
   B.   Fire Lanes Designated: The Fire Chief and Village Manager shall
designate fire lanes to the front and rear of all buildings within semipublic
areas to be marked by signs or other standard markings wherein the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles shall be restricted. The owners of the
semipublic areas shall pay for the cost of installation and maintenance of said
signs and markings. The Fire Chief and Village Manager may request the Village
Board to designate certain areas as fire lanes and that an appropriate
ordinance be adopted to enforce said fire lane restrictions.
   C.   Removal And Storage Of Vehicles: The Police Department of the Village
is hereby authorized to remove and store any vehicle parked or abandoned in a
semipublic area during snowstorms, floods, fires or other public emergency or
found unattended in the parking area where they constitute an obstruction to
traffic or where stopping, standing or parking is prohibited, and the owner or
operator of said vehicle shall pay a reasonable charge for the removal and
storage of said vehicle.
   D.   Penalty: The pedestrian, vehicle operator or vehicle owner violating
provisions of this Section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ords.
70-3-2, 77-15-20; 1985 Code; Ord. 99-5-11)
11-2-9: AUTOMOBILE PARTS, POSSESSION AND SALE BY POLICE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Adoption Of State Code: 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 1030/1 through
1030/6, inclusive, are adopted by reference 1 .
   B.   Sale Of Unidentifiable Automobile Parts: Whenever the Police Department
is in possession of unidentifiable automobile parts (parts containing no
markings or identification numbers of any sort) and such property is believed
to be abandoned, lost or stolen, and the identity or location of the owner or
other person entitled to possession of such property has not been ascertained
within seven (7) days after the Police Department obtains such possession, the
Chief of Police shall effectuate the sale of such property for cash to the
highest bidder at a public auction, notice of which (including time, place and
a brief description of such property) shall be published at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Village at least ten (10) days prior to
the sale. Such property offered for sale at such public auction and not sold,
may then be sold by the Chief of Police on the best terms possible. (Ord. 83-
10-20)
 
Notes
 
1 1. State law provisions relate to property possessed by law enforcement
  agencies.
 
11-2-10: FLEEING, ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE PEACE OFFICER:
Any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or
audible signal by a peace officer directing such driver or operator to bring
his vehicle to a stop, wilfully fails or refuses to obey such direction,
increases his speed, extinguishes his lights, or otherwise flees or attempts to
elude the officer, is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or
imprisoned for not less than ten (10) days nor more than six (6) months, or
both. The signal given by the peace officer may be by hand, voice, siren or
blue or red light; provided, the officer giving such signal shall be in police
uniform, and if driving a vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked showing it to
be an official police vehicle. (1969 Code 13-6; 1985 Code; Ord. 99-5-11)
11-2-11: OPENING DOORS INTO TRAFFIC:
No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers. (1969 Code
13-14)
11-2-12: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
Any person who shall wilfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay, or
who shall wilfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any
other person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any street or
highway or who shall offer for barter or sale merchandise on said street or
highway so as to interfere with the effective movement of traffic shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (1951 Code 14-8-53)
11-2-13: INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES ON STREETS:
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street any glass bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance likely to injure any
person, animal, or vehicle upon such street.
   B.   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
street any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the same
or cause it to be removed.
   C.   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the street from such
vehicle. (1969 Code 13-16)
11-2-14: RIDING ON CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person shall:
   A.   House Trailers: Occupy a house trailer while it is being moved upon a
public street.
   B.   Motorcycles: Ride upon any motorcycle other than upon a seat attached
to said vehicle.
   C.   Fenders, Running Boards: Ride upon the fender, running board or outside
step of any vehicle. (1951 Code 14-8-54, 14-8-58; 1969 Code 13-7)
11-2-15: CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a motorcycle, bicycle,
low-speed electric bicycle, low-speed gas bicycle, electric scooter, low-speed
electric scooter, prohibited electric vehicle, or any coaster, rollers
skates, toboggan, sled, ski or toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or his
vehicle to any moving vehicle. (1951 Code 14-8-56)
11-2-16: USE OF ELECTRIC SCOOTERS, CLASS 3 LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES,
LOW_SPEED GAS BICYCLES, PROHIBITED ELECTRIC VEHICLES, COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES,
AND TOY VEHICLES RESTRICTED:
A.  It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled or other
toy vehicle, to go upon any street, highway or roadway other than at a
crosswalk.
B. Pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-1518(a), it shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a low- speed electric scooter within the Village.
C. It shall be unlawful for any person upon any electric scooter not included
in the definition of low-speed electric scooter to go upon any street, highway
or roadway with a posted speed limit in excess of 35 mph, other than at a
crosswalk, unless permitted by Illinois law and the vehicle is properly titled
and registered in Illinois, and unless he or she is sixteen (16) years of age
or older and possesses a valid driver’s license.
D. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of sixteen (16) to be upon
any electric scooter not included in the definition of low-speed electric
scooter on any street, highway or roadway other than at a crosswalk.
E. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of sixteen (16) to be upon
a Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle on any street, highway or roadway other
than at a crosswalk.
F. It shall be unlawful for any person upon an electric personal assistive
mobility device to go upon any street, highway or roadway other than at a
crosswalk., or to operate any electric personal assistive mobility device on a
sidewalk at speeds greater than eight (8) miles per hour.
G. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of sixteen (16) to be upon
a low-speed gas bicycle upon any street, highway or roadway and/or on any
sidewalk.
H. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a low-speed gas bicycle at a
speed greater than 20 miles per hour upon any street, highway or roadway, or to
operate any low-speed gas bicycle on any sidewalk.
I. When at a crosswalk, vehicles under this section shall be walked and not
ridden.
 
(1951 Code 14-8-57)
11-2-17: OBSTRUCTIONS TO DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are
in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1951 Code 14-8-61)
11-2-18: FOLLOWING, PARKING NEAR FIRE APPARATUS:
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five
hundred feet (500') of or drive into or park such vehicle within the block
where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (1951 Code 14-8-49)
11-2-19: ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES:
   A.   Obedience Required: It is unlawful and, unless otherwise declared in
this title with respect to particular offenses, it is a misdemeanor for any
person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this
title.
   B.   Police To Enforce Regulations, Make Arrests: It shall be the duty of
the police to patrol the public streets and to make arrests for violation of
the provisions of this title.
   C.   Penalty Established: Every person convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided in subsections F
and G of this section and outlined in this title.
   D.   Guilty Parties: Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires
to commit, or aids, or abets in the commission of any act declared herein to be
a crime, or an ordinance violation, whether individually or in connection with
one or more other persons or as principal, agent or accessory, shall be guilty
of such offense and every person who falsely, fraudulently, forcibly, or
wilfully induces, causes, coerces, requires, permits, or directs another to
violate any provision of this title is likewise guilty of such offense.
   E.   Owner's Parental Responsibility:
      1.   It is unlawful for the owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle to require or knowingly to permit
the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to this
title.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or person in loco
parentis, to permit a minor who is his child, ward, or in his custody, to
violate any of the provisions of this title.
   F.   Adoption Of State Codes:
      1.   Chapters 3, 6, 11, 12 and 15 of the Illinois vehicle code 1 and 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 25/1 (the "child passenger protection act"), as now
existing or hereafter amended, are hereby adopted by reference to be applied
within the corporate limits of the village to the extent permitted by law and
to the extent that their subject matter is not otherwise regulated by the
village code or inconsistent with any lawful provision of the village code. All
actions or failure to act made unlawful in the aforesaid chapters of the
Illinois vehicle code shall be made unlawful events under the provisions of the
village code.
      2.   All references in the aforesaid chapters of the Illinois vehicle
code to "this code" shall be to sections of the Illinois vehicle code and shall
not refer to sections of the Oak Lawn village code. References to a state
employee or official may be to a corresponding village employee or official
where such reference is applicable or necessary.
      3.   Citations for violations of the aforesaid chapters of the Illinois
vehicle code adopted by reference herein may be issued by authorized personnel
of the village, using the appropriate Illinois vehicle code section which
shall, by the effect of this section, represent identically and specially
numbered sections of the Oak Lawn village code.
      4.   Without limiting the generality of subsection F1 of this section:
         a.   The following provisions of the Illinois vehicle code, as may be
amended from time to time, are hereby expressly adopted by reference pursuant
to the authority granted in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-204: sections
11-501, 11-501.1, 11-501.2, 11-501.4, 11-501.4-1, 11-501.5, 11-501.6, 11-501.7,
and 11-501.8, excepting section 11-501(d).
Reference to this subsection F4 can be made in the following manner: Oak Lawn
village code, chapter 11, subsection 11-2-19F followed by the applicable
Illinois vehicle code section number, e.g., subsection 11-2-19F of the Oak Lawn
village code/IVC 11-501.5.
         b.   The court, upon making a finding of guilty for any offense under
this subsection F, in addition to any sentencing alternative selected by the
court, shall impose a fine of not less than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each such offense and not more than the maximum provided by state
law. In the event the Illinois vehicle code imposes a minimum fine greater than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for such an offense, the greater of the
statutory minimum fine or seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) shall be
imposed.
   G.   Violation; Settle And Compromise: Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection F of this section, anyone accused of violating any of the following:
      1.   Section 5/11-1406 (obstruction to driver's view or control);
      2.   Section 5/12-101 (driving vehicle which is in unsafe condition or
improperly equipped);
      3.   Section 5/12-201(a) (daytime lights on motorcycles);
      4.   Section 5/12-202 (clearance, identification and side marker lamps);
      5.   Section 5/12-204 (lamp or flag on projecting load);
      6.   Section 5/12-205 (failure to display the safety lights required);
      7.   Section 5/12-401 (restrictions as to tire equipment);
      8.   Section 5/12-502 (mirrors);
      9.   Section 5/12-503 (windshields must be unobstructed and equipped with
wipers);
      10.   Section 5/12-601 (horns and warning devices);
      11.   Section 5/12-602 (mufflers, prevention of noise or smoke);
      12.   Section 5/12-603 (seat safety belts);
      13.   Section 5/12-702 (certain vehicles to carry flares or other warning
devices);
      14.   Section 5/12-710 (splashguards and replacements); or
      15.   Failure to display village vehicle license;
may settle and compromise the claim by paying the village the sum of fifty
dollars ($50.00) and showing proof of correction of the violation within ten
(10) days from the time such alleged offense was committed, or by paying to the
village the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00) and showing proof of the
correction of the violation subsequent to the said ten (10) day period.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois vehicle code, section 5/6-204,
conviction for said offenses shall not be reportable to the secretary of state.
(1951 Code 14- 12-80, 14-12-81; 1969 Code 13-240, 13-241; Ords. 83-24-64, 07-
14-43, 08-16-41)
 
Notes
 
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.”
SECTION THREE:   That Title 11(Motor Vehicles And Traffic), Chapter 9
(Bicycles/Tricycles), of the Oak Lawn Village Code is hereby amended to read in
its entirety as follows, with additions underlined and deletions stricken
through:
 
“CHAPTER 9 BICYLES/TRICYCLES, LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES, AND ELECTRIC
SCOOTERS
ARTICLE A. BICYCLES/TRICYCLES
SECTION:
11-9A-1: Definitions
11-9A -2: Voluntary Registration
11-9A -3: Issuance of Registration, Duration
11-9A -4: Type of Registration Sticker, Display
11-9A -5: Transfer of Ownership of Bicycle/Tricycle
11-9A -6: Damaging, Defacing Bicycle/Tricycle Numbers, Stickers
11-9A -7: Rental Bicycles/Tricycles
11-9A -8: Reports Required
11-9A -9: Impounding Bicycles/Tricycles[Reserved]
11-9A -10: Equipment
11-9A -11: Operation Requirements and Restrictions, Compliance with Laws,
Obedience to Traffic Signs
11-9A -1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is over sixteen inches (16") in
diameter. Every human-powered device, every low-speed gas bicycle, and every
low-speed electric bicycle, as defined in Section 1-140.10 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-140.10), as amended, with 2 or more wheels not less
than 12 inches in diameter, operable pedals, and designated seats for the
transportation of one or more persons.
CHIEF OF POLICE: The Chief of Police of the Village or any member of the Police
Department of the Village designated by the Chief of Police to act in his place
and stead.
DEALER IN BICYCLES/TRICYCLES:A person engaged in the business of buying and
selling new or used bicycles/tricycles.
LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE: A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals and
an electric motor of less than 750 watts that meets the requirements of one (1)
of the three (3) classifications set forth in Section 1-140.10 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1- 140.10), as amended:
(a)   “Class 1 low-speed electric bicycle” means a low-speed electric bicycle
with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and that
ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
(b)   “Class 2 low-speed electric bicycle” means a low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the bicycle and
that is not capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of
20 miles per hour.
(c)   “Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle” means a low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling
and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 28
miles per hour.
A low-speed electric bicycle is not a moped or a motor-driven cycle.
LOW-SPEED GAS BICYCLE: A 2-wheeled or 3-wheeled device with fully operable
pedals and a gasoline motor of less than one horsepower or 15 cubic centimeter
displacement that is operated at speeds of less than 20 miles per hour.
RENTAL AGENCY: Any person engaged in the business of offering for rental and
renting bicycles/tricycles for use by the public.
TRICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having three (3) wheels in which one is over sixteen inches (16") in diameter.
(Ord. 213; 1985 Code; Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9A-2: VOLUNTARY REGISTRATION:
Any resident of the Village may register any bicycle/tricycle owned by him/her
with the Village Police Department, and procure a registration sticker
therefor. Said registration sticker shall be issued without charge. (Ord. 94-
19-80)
11-9A-3: ISSUANCE OF REGISTRATION, DURATION:
The Police Department is hereby authorized and directed to issue upon written
application, bicycle/tricycle registration stickers which shall be permanent
without need for any renewal thereof. (Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9A-4: TYPE OF REGISTRATION STICKER, DISPLAY:
The Village shall provide decal registration stickers, said decal registration
stickers having a number printed thereon in numerical order, beginning with
number one, and the name Oak Lawn printed thereon. Such stickers shall be
suitable for attachment upon the bicycle/tricycle, and shall remain attached
during the existence of such registration. The sticker shall be displayed on
the frame of the bicycle/tricycle below the riders seat. (Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9A-5: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OF BICYCLE/TRICYCLE:
It shall be the duty of every person who sells or transfers ownership of any
bicycle/tricycle, for which a registration sticker has been issued, to report
such sale or transfer to the Police Department, together with the name and
address of the person to whom said bicycle/tricycle was sold or transferred.
Such report shall be made within five (5) days of the date of said sale or
transfer (Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9A-6: DAMAGING, DEFACING BICYCLE/TRICYCLE NUMBERS, STICKERS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, willingly or
maliciously remove, destroy, mutilate or alter the serial or frame number of
any bicycle/tricycle.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any bicycle/tricycle
that has its serial or frame numbers removed, destroyed, mutilated or altered.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, destroy, mutilate or
alter any registration sticker on any bicycle/tricycle during the time in which
such registration sticker is operative. (Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9A-7: RENTAL BICYCLES/TRICYCLES:
Bicycles/tricycles offered for rent by a rental agency shall be equipped with
such safety equipment as is required by this Chapter, and shall be kept in good
and safe working order. Rental agencies shall comply, in all respects, with all
of the provisions of this Chapter, and shall be responsible for the condition
of the bicycles/tricycles they rent. The Chief of Police shall make periodical
inspections of rental agencies to ascertain that they are complying with the
provisions of this Chapter. (Ords. 213, 94-19-80)
11-9A-8: REPORTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Secondhand Bicycle/Tricycle Buyers: All persons engaged in the business
of buying secondhand bicycles/tricycles are hereby required to make daily
reports to the Police Department, giving the name and address of the person
from whom each bicycle/tricycle is purchased, the description of each bicycle/
tricycle purchased, the frame number thereof, and the number of the
registration sticker found thereon, if any.
   B.   Bicycle Sellers: All persons in the business of selling new or
secondhand bicycles/tricycles are hereby required to make daily reports to the
Police Department, giving a list of all sales made by such dealers, which list
shall include the name and address of each person to whom sold, the kind of
bicycle/tricycle sold, together with a description and frame number thereof,
and the number of registration sticker attached thereto, if any. (Ords. 213,
94-19-80)
11-9A-9: [RESERVED]IMPOUNDING BICYCLES/TRICYCLES:
The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and empowered to administer the
provisions of this Chapter, and to impound for a period of thirty (30) days any
improperly registered bicycle/tricycle, or the bicycle/tricycle of any person
who violates any of the provisions of this Chapter, or of the ordinances of the
Village relating to street traffic, insofar as they are applicable. The action
of the Chief of Police in impounding a bicycle/tricycle as provided in this
Section shall be conclusive and final. The impounding of a bicycle/tricycle
shall not preclude the infliction of any other penalties upon the person whose
bicycle/tricycle is impounded. (Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9A-10: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Every bicycle/tricycle when in use at night shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least five hundred feet (500') to the front, and with a red reflector on the
rear which shall be visible from all distances from one hundred feet (100') to
six hundred feet (600') to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle; or a red light visible from a distance
of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to a red
reflector.
   B.   Every bicycle/tricycle shall be equipped with a horn or bell in good
working order and capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions for
a distance of over one hundred feet (100'), but no horn or other device shall
emit a harsh sound. No bicycles/tricycles shall be equipped with nor shall any
person use a siren or whistle upon a bicycle/tricycle.
   C.   Every bicycle/tricycle operated in the Village shall be kept in good
running order and equipped with adequate brakes, readily operated by foot or
hand. Such brakes shall enable the operator to make the braked wheels skid on
dry, level, clean pavement.
   D.   The Chief of Police shall inspect each bicycle/tricycle previous to the
issuance of a registration sticker therefor, and he may refuse to approve any
bicycle/tricycle which is not properly equipped or is not in safe condition.
   E.   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any provision of
this Chapter. (Ord. 213; 1985 Code; Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9A-11: OPERATION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS, COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS,
OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC SIGNS:
   A.   Compliance with Traffic Laws, Regulations: Every person operating a
bicycle/tricycle in the Village shall conform to the provisions of the Illinois
Vehicle CodeUniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways and shall also be
subject to the regulations of this Section.
   B.   Riding Abreast: When two (2) or more persons in a group are operating
bicycles/tricycles, they shall not ride abreast but shall ride single file.
   C.   Keep to Right: All bicycles/tricycles shall be operated as near to the
right-hand curb as conditions will permit, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   D.   Emerging from Alley, Driveway, Garage: Any person operating a bicycle/
tricycle emerging from an alley, driveway or garage, shall stop the bicycle/
tricycle immediately prior to driving onto or across a sidewalk or onto or
across a sidewalk line projected across any alley, and shall exercise extreme
care in these cases.
   E.   Clinging, Attaching to Moving Vehicles: No person operating a bicycle/
tricycle shall cling to or attach himself to any other moving vehicle.
   F.   Attaching Other Vehicles to Bicycles/Tricycles: No bicycle/tricycle
shall have attached to it any other vehicle such as a wagon or sled.
   G.   Riding on Sidewalks:
      1.   No person shall ride a bicycle/tricycle on the sidewalk in the
business district.
      2.   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle/tricycle upon a sidewalk other
than in the business district, such person shall yield the right of way to any
pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing such
person.
   H.   Pedestrians' Right of Way: The pedestrian has the right of way over
bicycles/tricycles at all times.
   I.   Obstructing Streets, Sidewalk: No bicycle/tricycle shall be left lying
upon any street or sidewalk or in such position as to obstruct or interfere
with the use of any street or sidewalk.
   J.   Passengers: No bicycle/tricycle shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an
adult rider may carry a child securely attached to his person in a back pack or
sling.
   K.   Riding "No Hands", Fancy Riding: No rider of a bicycle/tricycle shall
remove both hands from the handlebars or practice any acrobatic or fancy riding
on any street or sidewalk.
   L.   Hand Signals: Proper hand signals should be used at all times.
   M.   Carrying Articles: No person operating a bicycle/tricycle shall carry
any package, article or bundle which prevents the rider from keeping both hands
on the handlebars or obstructs his vision.
   N.   Obedience to Traffic Signs: Every person operating a bicycle/tricycle
must obey all traffic signs.
O. The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any provision of this Chapter.
(Ords. 213, 93-18-74, 94-19-80)
 
ARTICLE B. LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES
SECTION:
11-9B-1: Definitions
11-9B-2: Applicability Of Provisions Regulating Bicycles In Article A
11-9B-3: Operation Requirements And Restrictions; Equipment And Labeling
 
11-9B -1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
The definitions contained in Article A of Chapter 9 shall also apply to this
Article.
11-9B-2: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS REGULATING BICYCLES IN ARTICLE A:
Except as otherwise provided in this Article B, the provisions of Article A of
Chapter 9, Title 11, that apply to bicycles shall also apply to low-speed
electric bicycles.
 
11-9B-3: OPERATION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS; EQUIPMENT AND LABELING:
    A. Each low-speed electric bicycle operating in the Village shall comply
with equipment and manufacturing requirements adopted by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR 1512.
B. Each Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed the bicycle is traveling in miles per hour.
C. Each low-speed electric bicycle manufactured after January 1, 2018, shall
have a manufacturer’s or distributor’s label that is permanently affixed to the
bicycle in a prominent location. The label shall contain, in Arial font in at
least 9-point type:
1. a classification number for the bicycle that corresponds with a class under
Section 1-140.10 of the Illinois Vehicle Code;
2. the bicycle's top assisted speed; and
3. the bicycle's motor wattage.
D. No person shall knowingly tamper or modify the speed capability or
engagement of a low-speed electric bicycle without replacing the label required
under this subsection C.
E. A Class 2 low-speed electric bicycle shall operate in a manner so that the
electric motor is disengaged or ceases to function when the brakes are applied.
A Class 1 low-speed electric bicycle and a Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle
shall operate in a manner so that the electric motor is disengaged or ceases to
function when the rider stops pedaling.
F. A person may operate a low-speed electric bicycle upon any highway, street,
or roadway authorized for use by bicycles, including, but not limited to,
bicycle lanes.
G. A person may operate a low-speed electric bicycle upon any bicycle path
unless the municipality, county, or local authority with jurisdiction prohibits
the use of low-speed electric bicycles or a specific class of low-speed
electric bicycles on that path.
H. A person may not operate a low-speed electric bicycle on a sidewalk.
I. A person may operate a Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle only if he or she
is 16 years of age or older. A person who is less than 16 years of age may ride
as a passenger on a Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle that is designed to
accommodate passengers.
 
ARTICLE C. ELECTRIC SCOOTERS
SECTION:
11-9C-1: Definitions
11-9C-2: Low-Speed Electric Scooters Prohibited
11-9C-3: Electric Scooter Operation Requirements And Restrictions
 
11-9C -1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
ELECTRIC SCOOTER: A device with 2 or 3 wheels, handlebars, and a floorboard
that can be stood upon while riding, that is solely powered by an electric
motor and human power.
LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC SCOOTER: A device weighing less than 100 pounds, with 2 or 3
wheels, handlebars, and a floorboard that can be stood upon while riding, that
is solely powered by an electric motor and human power, and whose maximum
speed, with or without human propulsion, is no more than 10 miles per hour.
"Low-speed electric scooter" does not include a moped or motor-driven cycle.
 
11-9C-2: LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC SCOOTERS PROHIBITED 
Pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-1518(a), the operation of low-speed electric scooters
within the Village is prohibited.
 
11-9C-3: ELECTRIC SCOOTER OPERATION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS
Any Electric Scooter, not included in the definition of low-speed electric
scooter, and for which the State of Illinois does not issue a title document,
license plates, or registration document, shall be subject to the following
requirements and restrictions:
A. A person may not operate such electric scooter on a highway with a posted
speed limit in excess of 35 mph.
B. A person may not operate such electric scooter on a street, highway, or
roadway unless he or she is sixteen (16) years of age or older.
 C. Such electric scooter may be parked in the same manner and at the same
locations as a bicycle may be parked.
D. Every such electric scooter when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with
a lamp on the front that emits a white light visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear that is
visible from all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly
in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, except that a
lamp emitting a steady or flashing red light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the rear may be used in addition to or instead of the red reflector.
E. Such electric scooter shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use
upon an electric scooter any siren. This subsection does not apply to an
electric scooter that is a police vehicle or fire department vehicle.
F. Every such electric scooter shall be equipped with a brake that will
adequately control movement of and stop and hold the electric scooter.
G. A person may not operate such an electric scooter while carrying any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the operator from keeping at least
one hand upon the handlebars.
H. A person may not use such an electric scooter to carry more than one person
at a time. A person operating such electric scooter may not attach himself or
herself or the scooter to any other vehicle being operated on the public right-
of-way.
J. Every such electric scooter shall be well-maintained and in good operating
condition.
K. A person may not operate an electric scooter on a sidewalk.
L.  Compliance with Traffic Laws, Regulations: Every person operating an
electric scooter in the Village shall conform to the provisions of the Illinois
Vehicle Code and shall also be subject to the regulations of this Section.
   M.  Riding Abreast: When two (2) or more persons in a group are operating
electric scooters, they shall not ride abreast but shall ride single file.
   N.   Keep to Right: All electric scooters shall be operated as near to the
right-hand curb as conditions will permit, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   O.   Emerging from Alley, Driveway, Garage: Any person operating an electric
scooter emerging from an alley, driveway or garage, shall stop the electric
scooter immediately prior to driving onto or across a sidewalk or onto or
across a sidewalk line projected across any alley, and shall exercise extreme
care in these cases.
   P.   Clinging, Attaching to Moving Vehicles: No person operating an electric
scooter shall cling to or attach himself to any other moving vehicle.
   Q.   Attaching Other Vehicles to Electric Scooters: No electric scooter
shall have attached to it any other vehicle such as a wagon or sled.
   R.   Pedestrians' Right of Way: The pedestrian has the right of way over
electric scooters at all times.
   S.   Obstructing Streets, Sidewalk: No electric scooter shall be left lying
upon any street or sidewalk or in such position as to obstruct or interfere
with the use of any street or sidewalk.
   T.   Riding "No Hands", Fancy Riding: No rider of an electric scooter shall
remove both hands from the handlebars or practice any acrobatic or fancy riding
on any street or sidewalk.
   U.   Hand Signals: Proper hand signals should be used at all times.
   V.   Obedience to Traffic Signs: Every person operating an electric scooter
must obey all traffic signs.
W. The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any provision of this Article.”
 
SECTION FOUR:   Any policy, resolution or ordinance of the Village that
conflicts with the provisions of this Ordinance shall be and is hereby repealed
to the extent of such conflict.
 
SECTION FIVE:    This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
after its adoption and approval in the manner provided by law.
 
ADOPTED this 9th day of September, 2025, pursuant to a roll call vote as
follows:
 
   AYES:    Trustees Desmond, Soch, Pembroke, Olejniczak, Mallo and Stalker
   NAYS:    __________________________________________________
   ABSENT:    __________________________________________________
 
APPROVED by me this 9th day of September, 2025 and attested by the Village
Clerk on the same day.
    
 
_______________________________
                         Village President
ATTEST:
 
 
____________________________
Village Clerk
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            )   SS.
COUNTY OF COOK      )
 
CLERK'S CERTIFICATE
 
      I, Claire Henning, Village Clerk of the Village of Oak Lawn, in the
County of Cook and State of Illinois, certify that the attached document is a
true and correct copy of that certain Ordinance now on file in my Office,
entitled:
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-14-46
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 11 (MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC), CHAPTER 9
(BICYCLES/TRICYCLES) OF THE OAK LAWN VILLAGE CODE RELATIVE TO LOW-SPEED
ELECTRIC BICYCLES AND ELECTRIC SCOOTERS
AND OTHER RELATED CHANGES
 
which Ordinance was passed by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Oak Lawn
at a Regular Village Board Meeting on the 9th day of September, 2025, at which
meeting a quorum was present, and approved by the President of the Village of
Oak Lawn on the 9th day of September, 2025.
 
   I further certify that the vote on the question of the passage of said
Ordinance by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Oak Lawn was taken by Ayes
and Nays and recorded in the minutes of the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Oak Lawn, and that the result of said vote was as follows, to-wit:
 
      AYES: Trustees Desmond, Soch, Pembroke, Olejniczak, Mallo and Stalker
   NAYS:    
   ABSENT:    
 
   I do further certify that the original Ordinance, of which the foregoing is
a true copy, is entrusted to my care for safekeeping, and that I am the lawful
keeper of the same.
 
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the
Village of Oak Lawn, this 9th day of September, 2025.
 
 
                        _____________________________
                        Claire Henning, Village Clerk
 
 
 
[SEAL]
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-14-47
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING VARIOUS SECTIONS OF TITLE 8 (PUBLIC
HEALTH AND SANITATION), CHAPTER 5 (GARBAGE, REFUSE AND ELECTRONIC RECYCLING) OF
THE VILLAGE CODE OF OAK LAWN
 
 
 
TERRY VORDERER, President
CLAIRE HENNING, Village Clerk
 
TIM DESMOND
ALEX G. OLEJNICZAK
PAUL MALLO
JAMIE PEMBROKE
WILLIAM R. STALKER
RALPH SOCH
Board of Trustees
____________________________________________________________________________________
_
 
 
 
VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-14-47
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING VARIOUS SECTIONS OF TITLE 8 (PUBLIC
HEALTH AND SANITATION), CHAPTER 5 (GARBAGE, REFUSE AND ELECTRONIC RECYCLING) OF
THE VILLAGE CODE OF OAK LAWN
                            
WHEREAS, the Village of Oak Lawn (the "Village") is a home rule municipality,
having all of the powers and authority granted to such municipalities pursuant
to Article VII, Section 6 of the Illinois Constitution of 1970, particularly
the right to exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its
government and affairs, including, but not limited to, the power to regulate
for the protection of the public health, safety, morals and welfare; and
 
WHEREAS, Section 11-19-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-19-1,
provides that the corporate authorities of each municipality may enter into
contracts for the collection and disposal of municipal waste; and
 
WHEREAS, on July 22nd, 2025, at a regular meeting of the Village of Oak Lawn
Board of Trustees, the Village President and Board of Trustees of the Village
adopted Resolution No. 25-12-56, approving a bid from Flood Brothers Disposal
Company (“Flood Brothers”) to provide refuse, recyclables, landscape,
electronic and hazardous waste collection and disposal services to the Village;
and
 
WHEREAS, since the adoption of Resolution No. 25-12-56, Village Staff has
finalized the terms of a service agreement with Flood Brothers, including the
fees charged for services and the requirements for various refuse, recycling,
and landscape waste containers, among other terms; and
 
WHEREAS, in order to reflect the agreed terms of the service agreement with
Flood Brothers, Village Staff has recommended various amendments to the Oak
Lawn Village Code (the “Village Code”) relative to garbage, refuse and
electronic recycling; and
 
WHEREAS, the Village President and Board of Trustees of the Village find that
the following Code Amendments are in the best interests of the Village, its
residents, property owners, business owners and the public, and hereby approve
the Code Amendments as set forth below.
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN, COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
 
SECTION ONE: Recitals.  Each of the Whereas clauses above are incorporated by
reference into this Section 1 and made a part hereof as material and operative
provisions of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION TWO: Amendment to the Oak Lawn Village Code. Subsection 8-5-5
(Containers Required, Specifications), in Title 8 (Public Health and
Sanitation), Chapter 5 (Garbage, Refuse and Electronic Recycling), of the Oak
Lawn Village Code is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows
(additions to existing text marked with underlined text; deletions to existing
text marked using strikethrough):
 
“8-5-5: CONTAINERS REQUIRED, SPECIFICATIONS:
For the purposes of this Subsection 8-5-5, the term Village shall include the
Village’s service provider contracted to provide garbage, refuse and electronic
recycling services to the Village. The Village’s contracted service provider
hereunder shall also be referred to as the “Village Contractor.”
A. Every occupant, person, owner, lessee or tenant in possession of any house,
building, condominium, or apartment in the village shall at all times maintain
in good order and repair a container or containers for trash and garbage.
B. A container shall be a can of galvanized iron or noncorrodible material,
rodentproof, watertight, with a tightfitting lid, and of the type commonly sold
as a garbage can, of a suitable gauge and construction to ensure durability, of
a capacity of not less than ten (10) gallons and not to exceed thirty three
(33) gallons for single-family and two-family residences.
B. Refuse shall be collected by the Village only if it is set out in a Village
Contractor- supplied blue 96, 64, or 35-gallon cart, or in a customer-supplied
water-tight, rodent- proof container made of galvanized metal or other non-
corrodible material, with handles and lid, commonly sold as a garbage can, of a
suitable gauge and construction to insure durability, with a capacity of not
less than ten (10) gallons and not more than thirty-three (33) gallons.
Additional Village Contractor-supplied carts may be available to rent for an
annual fee. Any wet refuse must be wrapped in a suitable material. Fiber drums,
oil drums, cylindrical metal barrels, and cardboard containers, regardless of
size or capacity, are prohibited from use as a refuse container.
C. Recycling shall be collected by the Village only if it is set out in a
Village Contractor-supplied green 96, 64, or 35-gallon cart, or an 18-gallon
bin. Additional Village Contractor-supplied carts may be available to rent for
an annual fee.
D. Landscape waste shall be collected by the Village only if it is set out in a
Village Contractor-supplied or customer-supplied (up to 3 carts) brown 96, 64,
or 35-gallon cart, two-ply Kraft thirty (30) gallon paper bags, or a customer-
supplied unlined container with functional handles and lid, no larger than
thirty-three (33) gallons in capacity, and clearly marked with a "Yard Waste"
sticker. Any landscape waste shall be deposited loose in the container, and
each container shall not exceed sixty (60) pounds in weight when carrying a
full load of landscape waste. Village Contractor-supplied 96-gallon yard waste
carts are available to rent for an annual fee.
E. Any material that is not set out in approved containers shall not be
collected by the Village. If the Village Contractor encounters nonconforming
material, a notice shall be left on the container or attached to the material.
This notice shall specify the reason(s) for not collecting the material. A
duplicate copy of the notice shall be provided to the Village’s Public Works
office within twenty-four (24) hours. Such notice is subject to review and
approval by the Village. The Village will notify the Village Contractor if
additional steps must be taken.
CF. Filthy, leaking or defective receptacles should be cleaned, repaired or
replaced as directed by the appropriate representative of the village. (1951
Code 2-6-26, 2-6-17, 6-6- 3; Ord. 06-10-55)”
 
SECTION THREE: Amendment to the Oak Lawn Village Code. Subpart B (Hours of
Collection; Days Prohibited), of Subsection 8-5-6 (Collection Regulations,
Requirements) in Title 8 (Public Health and Sanitation), Chapter 5 (Garbage,
Refuse and Electronic Recycling) of the Oak Lawn Village Code is hereby amended
to read in its entirety as follows (additions to existing text marked with
underlined text; deletions to existing text marked using strikethrough):
 
“B. Hours Of Collection; Days Prohibited:
 
1. Under its powers as a home rule municipality the village restricts the time
of refuse and garbage collection within the village limits by firms under
contract to the village and by firms licensed by the village to do so to five
thirty six o'clock (5:30 6:00) A.M. until six thirty o'clock (6:30 6:00) P.M.
 
2. No collection of garbage shall be made on Sundays or holidays.”
 
SECTION FOUR: Amendment to the Oak Lawn Village Code. Subsection 8-5-7 (Charges
for Village Collection) in Title 8 (Public Health and Sanitation), Chapter 5
(Garbage, Refuse and Electronic Recycling) of the Oak Lawn Village Code is
hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows (additions to existing text
marked with underlined text; deletions to existing text marked using
strikethrough):
 
“8-5-7: CHARGES FOR VILLAGE COLLECTION:
 
For the purposes of this Subsection 8-5-7, the term Village shall include the
Village’s service provider contracted to provide garbage, refuse and electronic
recycling services to the Village. The Village’s contracted service provider
hereunder shall also be referred to as the “Village Contractor.”
 
A. Effective October 1, 20242025, refuse, recycling, and landscape waste
collection charges for each residential and nonresidential account shall be as
follows:
 
      1. Residential quarterly billing:
      
a. Seniors (over age 65): Sixty-seven dollars and forty-four cents
($67.44) Fifty-eight dollars and sixty-five cents ($58.65);
         
      b. Person(s) with a disability: Sixty-seven dollars and forty-four cents
          ($67.44) Fifty-eight dollars and sixty-five cents ($58.65);
 
(1) “Person(s) with a disability” as used in this section means any person who
is, and who is expected to indefinitely continue to be, subject to any of the
five (5) types of disabilities consistent with the term as defined in the
Illinois State Statute, 15 Illinois Compiled Statutes 335/4A; or person(s) with
a disability that are receiving social security or SSI benefits. This reduction
shall only apply to homeowners with a disability as defined above or
alternatively, legal guardians of a person with a disability who reside in the
residence of the applicant seeking the reduction.
(2) The Village of Oak Lawn recognizes that it lacks the resources to establish
a system for determining whether an applicant under this section is a “person
(s) with a disability” as defined herein. As a result, in order to receive the
reduction allowed under this section, the Village of Oak Lawn will only accept
the following documents as validation of proof that the applicant is a “person
with a disability” or has a disability and is receiving social security or SSI
benefits:
 
(A) Person(s) with a disability validation. The applicant must provide a valid
“Illinois person with a disability identification card” obtained through the
Illinois Secretary of State as provided for in 15 Illinois Compiled Statutes
335/4.
 
(B) Social security validation. The applicant must provide a current social
security or SSI benefit verification letter which contains the applicant’s
current residence, age and disability.
 
c. Nonseniors: Seventy-six dollars and seventy-four cents ($76.74) Sixty- nine
dollars ($69.00).
 
2. Nonresidential monthly billing:
   
a. All customers: Twenty-five dollars and fifty-eight cents ($25.58) Twenty-
three dollars ($23.00).
         
   All charges shall be billed to and paid by the occupant, owner or owner’s
agent, tenant, or individual in whose name the water account appears, or
otherwise as the Village Collector may provide. Collection of the charges for
water provided, sewage treated and refuse collected shall not be collected
separately from each other. Wherever refuse disposal is not required for a full
billing cycle, the individual furnished the service shall pay on a pro rata
basis for portions of the billing cycle during which he receives services. The
basic charge shall entitle each account to a weekly collection of all household
waste including garbage, rubbish and recyclables.
 
B. Only one of the following listed items may be placed out for pick up,
without additional charge, each week:
 
1. Furniture and large household goods, to include, but not be limited to,
televisions, hot water heaters, sofas, dressers, lamps, chairs, tables,
mattresses, rolls of carpet (not more than 4 feet in length).
 
2. Small amounts of sod, earth, and rocks, provided the items listed are put
into a suitable container not exceeding sixty (60) pounds.
 
3. Household Cconstruction material (except new construction) including, but
not limited to, furnaces, bathtubs, shower stalls, doors, windows, and other
items that are considered part of a dwelling. It shall also include loose
remodeling and repair construction materials, provided such items are put in a
suitable container or in a bundle not exceeding four feet (4') in length, and
not weighing over sixty (60) pounds.
 
Customers who wish to set out more than one of the items listed per week will
be directed to contact the contractor to make arrangements for collection at an
additional cost.
 
Dead animals and white goods (such as refrigerators, air conditioners,
freezers, washing machines, dryers, dishwashers, microwaves, etc.) will be
collected at no additional charge.
 
C. Organic (living) Christmas trees shall be collected, free of charge, a
minimum of two during the first three (23) weeks after January 1 of each year
from each dwelling serviced under this contract. Christmas trees shall be
collected on regularly scheduled collection days. The trees must be free from
foreign materials such as, but not limited to, tinsel, wires, ornaments, or
bags, and shall be recycled.
 
D. In an effort to encourage management of landscape waste at a location, the
pick up of landscape waste is to be provided on the same day and as part of the
regular refuse pick up, between the first full week in April through the second
full week in December. April 1 and November 30 of each year.
 
Bundles of brush or tree clippings shall be collected as part of the regular
landscape waste pick up, provided the weight of such bundles does not exceed
sixty (60) pounds, the length of material does not exceed four feet (4'), and/
or the diameter of each bundle does not exceed three feet (3'). Logs over four
inches (4") in diameter must be stacked separately at the curb and cut into
lengths of twenty four inches (24") with individual pieces not exceeding eight
inches (8") in diameter. The foregoing does not include any branches or trees
cut by private contractors hired by the customer.
 
E. The Village Contractor will collect the following items on a fee basis via
curbside pickup. All fee-based collections are to be arranged between the
resident and the Village Contractor, who shall charge the resident directly and
may require payment prior to service.
 
   1. Electronic Waste, including televisions.
 
2. Tires (separate from the rims) and White Goods (refrigerators, air
conditioners, freezers, washing machines, dryers, dishwashers, microwaves,
etc.)
 
3. Hazardous Waste including, but not limited to, automotive waste products,
garden chemicals, household cleaners, paint products, swimming pool chemicals,
and miscellaneous household hazardous waste.
 
From time to time the Village may host an Electronic and Hazardous Waste event.
The contractor will charge a fee per item with the fees posted at the event.
(Ords. 13-15-56, 14-04-10, 14-13-25, 15-05-18, 16-06-12, 17-04-09, 18-24-83,
19-23-74, 20-19-56, 21-21-98, 22-19-64, 23-15-60, 24-16-60)”
 
SECTION FIVE: Amendment to the Oak Lawn Village Code. Subsection 8-5-9
(Consumer Electronic Recycling) in Title 8 (Public Health and Sanitation),
Chapter 5 (Garbage, Refuse and Electronic Recycling) of the Oak Lawn Village
Code is hereby deleted in its entirety.
 
SECTION SIX: Severability.    If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of
this Ordinance is held invalid, the invalidity of such section, paragraph,
clause or provision shall not affect any of the other provisions of this
Ordinance.
 
SECTION SEVEN: Repealer.  Any policy, resolution or ordinance of the Village
that conflicts with the provisions of this Ordinance shall be and is hereby
repealed to the extent of such conflict.
 
SECTION EIGHT: Effective Date.  This Ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from and after its passage and approval in the manner provided by law.
 
   ADOPTED this 9th day of September, 2025, pursuant to a roll call vote as
follows:
 
      AYES: Trustees Desmond, Soch, Pembroke, Olejniczak, Mallo and Stalker
   NAYS:    
   ABSENT:    
 
APPROVED by me this 9th day of September, 2025, and attested by the Village
Clerk on the same day.
 
_______________________________
                         Village President
ATTEST:
 
____________________________
Village Clerk
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            ) SS
COUNTY OF COOK      )
 
CLERK'S CERTIFICATE
 
      I, Claire Henning, Village Clerk of the Village of Oak Lawn, in the
County of Cook and State of Illinois, certify that the attached document is a
true and correct copy of that certain Ordinance now on file in my Office,
entitled:
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-14-47
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING VARIOUS SECTIONS OF TITLE 8 (PUBLIC
HEALTH AND SANITATION), CHAPTER 5 (GARBAGE, REFUSE AND ELECTRONIC RECYCLING) OF
THE VILLAGE CODE OF OAK LAWN
 
which Ordinance was passed by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Oak Lawn
at a Regular Village Board Meeting on the 9th day of September, 2025, at which
meeting a quorum was present, and approved by the President of the Village of
Oak Lawn on the 9th day of September, 2025.
 
   I further certify that the vote on the question of the passage of said
Ordinance by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Oak Lawn was taken by Ayes
and Nays and recorded in the minutes of the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Oak Lawn, and that the result of said vote was as follows, to-wit:
 
      AYES: Trustees Desmond, Soch, Pembroke, Olejniczak, Mallo and Stalker
   NAYS:    
   ABSENT:    
 
   I do further certify that the original Ordinance, of which the foregoing is
a true copy, is entrusted to my care for safekeeping, and that I am the lawful
keeper of the same.
 
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the
Village of Oak Lawn, this 9th day of September, 2025.
 
                        _____________________________
                        Claire Henning, Village Clerk
 
[SEAL]   
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-15-53
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE MAKING FURTHER AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 3-1-1-7 (FEE SCHEDULES) OF
TITLE 3 (BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS), CHAPTER 1 (GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR
BUSINESSES, CERTIFICATES, LICENSES AND PERMITS) AND VARIOUS OTHER SECTIONS OF
THE OAK LAWN VILLAGE CODE RELATIVE TO BUSINESS AND OTHER LICENSING AND
REGISTRATION, AND RELATED FEES (UPDATE ORDINANCE NO. 2)
 
 
 
TERRY VORDERER, President
CLAIRE HENNING, Village Clerk
 
TIM DESMOND
ALEX G. OLEJNICZAK
PAUL MALLO
JAMIE PEMBROKE
WILLIAM R. STALKER
RALPH SOCH
Board of Trustees
____________________________________________________________________________________
_
Published in pamphlet form by authority of the President and Board of Trustees
of the
Village of Oak Lawn
 
 
 
VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-15-53
 
AN ORDINANCE MAKING FURTHER AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 3-1-1-7 (FEE SCHEDULES) OF
TITLE 3 (BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS), CHAPTER 1 (GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR
BUSINESSES, CERTIFICATES, LICENSES AND PERMITS) AND VARIOUS OTHER SECTIONS OF
THE OAK LAWN VILLAGE CODE RELATIVE TO BUSINESS AND OTHER LICENSING AND
REGISTRATION, AND RELATED FEES (UPDATE ORDINANCE NO. 2)
 
WHEREAS, the Village of Oak Lawn (the "Village") is a home rule municipality,
having all of the powers and authority granted to such municipalities pursuant
to Article VII, Section 6 of the Illinois Constitution of 1970, including the
right to exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its
government and affairs; and
 
   WHEREAS, for the past several years, Village staff has undertaken a
comprehensive review of the Village’s business licensing ordinances and fees,
which have not been comprehensively reviewed in over twenty (20) years, and
have recommended many changes with the goals of creating a simplified licensing
and registration process, modernizing fee structures, addressing
inconsistencies, promoting equity among businesses, and creating administrative
efficiencies; and
 
WHEREAS, it is anticipated that the end result will be implementation of a
significantly simplified business licensing, registration and related business
fee structure; and
 
WHEREAS, Village staff has, during the pendency of its review and analysis of
its business licensing ordinances, process, structure and fees, implemented a
series of licensing fee holidays that have benefited Oak Lawn businesses; and
   
WHEREAS, the review is now nearing completion, and an ordinance creating a new
and simplified business licensing, registration and related business fee
structure was recently approved at the Village’s July 22, 2025 Board of
Trustees meeting; and
 
WHEREAS, subsequent to that, an Ordinance making certain clarifying and other
changes regarding licensing, registration and fees within the Village was
considered and approved at the Village’s August 26, 2025 Board of Trustees
meeting; and
 
WHEREAS, since that time, it has been determined by staff that certain
additional clarifying and other changes regarding licensing, registration and
fees within the Village are required (the “Proposed Code Amendments”), as set
forth below in this Ordinance; and
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Village’s home rule authority, and other authority
granted to the Village by the applicable provisions of the Illinois Municipal
Code (65 ILCS 5/ et seq.), the President and Board of Trustees of the Village
of Oak Lawn find that the below Code Amendments are in the best interests of
the Village, its residents, property owners, business owners and the public,
and they approve the Code Amendments as set forth below.
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF
OAK LAWN, COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
 
   SECTION ONE: Each Whereas paragraph set forth above is incorporated by
reference into this Section 1.
 
SECTION TWO: Title 3 (Business and License Regulations), Chapter 1 (General
Provisions for Businesses, Certificates, Licenses and Permits), Section 3-1-1-
7 (Fee Schedules) of the Oak Lawn Village Code is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows (new text is marked with underlining; deletions to existing
text marked using strikethrough):
 
“3-1-1-7: FEE SCHEDULES:
 
A.   Payment of Fees Required: All commercial establishments or business
activities (collectively referred to in this section as “businesses”), and
certain other entities subject to licensing, registration or permitting,
located or taking place within the Village are required to pay the licensing,
registration or permitting fees set forth in the tables below, as applicable,
on an annual basis.
 
B. Licensing, Registration and/or Fee Year or Term; Prorations: Except where
otherwise specified in this section:
 
   1. The license, registration and/or fee year or term for all fees specified
in Tables 1 through 6 below is from October 1 through September 30 of each
year, except that the license, registration and/or fee year or term immediately
following the enactment of this Ordinance shall run from July 1, 2025 through
September 30, 2026, with all payments due by November 30, 2025. For subsequent
years, tThe renewal period opens on July 1 and closes on September 30 each
year, and all payments are due by September 30 of each year.
   2. When a fee is owed for the first time in the second half of a license,
registration and/or fee year or term, it shall be prorated by 50% for that year
or term only.
 
   3. All fees must be paid at the time of application. In the event an
application is denied, the fee shall be returned, absent a $50 processing
charge.
 
   4. In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any fee, or part
thereof, by reason of death or by any reason of nonuse of the license or
registration or discontinuance of the operation of the commercial establishment
or business activity.
 
   5. Per Section 1-17-2 of this Code, no license, permit, certificate or other
approval regulated or issued by the Village under the authority of this Code,
or renewal thereof, shall be issued to any person or entity who is indebted to
the Village due to a failure to pay any debt, tax, fine, fee, or penalty, or
any renewal thereof, as determined solely by the Village Manager.
 
C.   General Rules on Calculation of Fees and Square Footage of Interior Space
Calculations: Except where otherwise indicated, the following rules shall apply
to the calculation of fees and the determination of square footage of interior
space as that term is used in this section and the Tables below:
 
   1. Total square footage of interior space applicable for the determination
of the yearly license fee where based on square footage shall include the sum
total of all the floor area in use or reserved for or retained for the use of
the business, including, but not restricted to, principal and accessory floor
area, cellars and basements, storage, or detached accessory buildings, even
though any such floor area may be temporarily vacant or not in use.
 
   2. Businesses that occupy multiple floors in a building will derive total
square-footage by adding the interior square footage of all the floors they
occupy.
 
   3. Businesses with multiple locations in the village that operate as
separate businesses (e.g., franchise restaurants) will register and/or license
each location separately and pay registration and licensing fees for each, and
each will be issued their own business license.
The maximum annual fee that a business is required to pay as their base
licensing fee based on square footage of interior space is $5,000.
 
   4. Businesses or entities with multiple locations in the Village that serve
as support for the primary business location (e.g., maintenance, storage, back-
office, etc.) derive total square footage of interior space by the sum of the
total interior square footage of all their facilities and locations within the
Village.
 
   45. Where a fee is based on square footage, under-reporting of square
footage will be subject to a fine of $1.00 per under-reported square foot.
 
D.   Village-Based Businesses: The following Table 1 applies to all village-
based businesses, except in those cases where a business is specifically listed
in Table 2, effective with the licensing period commencing July 1, 2025:
 
TABLE 1 -                                                                    Registration PLUS
Oak Lawn-Based Businesses & Organizations                                    Fee $        License
                                                                                          Fee $
Registered Non-Profit Organizations                                          $0           $0
Home-occupation                                                              $0           $150
                                                                                          $1,000
                                                                                          per video
                                                                                          gaming
Video Gaming Terminal Operators                                              $1,000       terminal
                                                                                          operating
                                                                                          in the
                                                                                          village
Village-based businesses (non-home-based) licensed by the Illinois
Department of Finance and Professional Regulations ("IDFPR”) or otherwise $150         $0
licensed exclusively by the State of Illinois or federal government.1,51,2
                                                                                          $.20 per
Village businesses with physical location(s) in the Village (non-home-       $0           s.f. of
based)2,3,4,5                                                                             interior
                                                                                          space
                                                                                          $1,000
                                                                                          base
                                                                                          licensing
                                                                                          fee plus
                                                                                          $1,000
Video Gaming Terminal Operators                                              $0           per video
                                                                                          gaming
                                                                                          terminal
                                                                                          operating
                                                                                          in the
                                                                                          Village3
                                                                                          $1,000
                                                                                          base
                                                                                          licensing
                                                                                          fee plus
                                                                                          $1,000
Towing Companies                                                             $0           per
                                                                                          towing
                                                                                          vehicle
                                                                                          operating
                                                                                          in the
                                                                                          Village4
                                                                                          $150$.20
                                                                                          per
Any and all other Village-based businesses not described above with physical              square
location(s) in the Village5,6                                                $0           foot of
                                                                                          interior
                                                                                          space7,8
                                                                                           
Notes:
1.   Commercial establishments or business activities licensed by the IDFPR or
otherwise licensed exclusively by the State of Illinois or federal government
shall pay a minimum fee of $150 regardless of square feet of space occupied.
2.   Commercial establishments or business activities licensed by the IDFPR
will pay a single annual registration fee for the establishment or activity
(i.e. legal entity), not per licensed professional.
3.   Underreporting of gaming terminals is subject to a fine of $5,000 per
underreported machine
4.   Underreporting of towing vehicles is subject to a fine of $5,000 per
underreported vehicle.
5.   A minimum fee of $150 is required for businesses with a physical location
(s) in the Village (non-home based), even in the event the business is less
than 750 square feet of interior space or consists only of a post office box.
6.   The maximum annual combined registration and licensing fee that a business
is required
to pay based on square footage of interior space is $5,000.
7.   Businesses or entities with multiple locations in the Village that serve
as support for the primary business location (e.g., maintenance, storage, back-
office, etc.) derive total square footage of interior space by the sum of the
total interior square footage of all their facilities and locations within the
Village.
8.   Mobile Home Park operators will derive total square footage by adding the
total square footage of the individual mobile homes on the property plus the
square footage of any administrative office(s) on site.
1.   Commercial establishments or business activities licensed by the IDFPR
will pay a single annual registration fee for the establishment or activity
(i.e. legal entity), not per licensed professional.
2.   A minimum fee of $150 is required, even in the event the business is less
than 750 square feet of interior space.
3.   Commercial establishments with multiple locations in the village that
operate as separate businesses (e.g., franchise restaurants) will register each
location separately and pay a license fees for each, and each will be issued
their own business license.
4.   Mobile Home Park operators will derive total square footage by adding the
total square footage of the individual mobile homes on the property plus the
square footage of any administrative office(s) on site.
5.   Commercial establishments or business activities licensed by the IDFPR
shall pay a minimum fee of $150 regardless of square feet of space occupied.
E.   Miscellaneous and/or Non-Village Based Businesses: The commercial
establishments or business activities listed below in Table 2 in many cases do
not have their physical place of business located within the village, and
cannot therefore have their fee determined on a square footage basis, but are
conducting commercial or business activities within the village. In the event a
business or organization listed below also maintains a physical place of
business in the village, it is subject to the per square foot fees in Table 1
above in addition to the fees specified below. The license fees enumerated in
this section are fees imposed on these miscellaneous and non-village based
businesses and organizations effective with the licensing period commencing
July 1, 2025:
 
                                                                                                    PLUS
TABLE 2 -                                                                          RegistrationBase Additional
Miscellaneous and/or Non-Oak Lawn Based Businesses & Organizations                Licensing Fee $  Licensing
                                                                                                    License
                                                                                                    Fee $
                                                                                                    $1,000 per
                                                                                                    waste
                                                                                                    hauling
Commercial Waste Haulers                                                           $1,000           vehicle
                                                                                                    operated
                                                                                                    in the
                                                                                                    Village
                                                                                                    $1,000 per
                                                                                                    video
                                                                                                    gaming
Video Gaming Terminal Operators                                                    $1,000           terminal
                                                                                                    operating
                                                                                                    in the
                                                                                                    Village1
                                                                                                    $1,000 per
                                                                                                    Towing
Towing Companies                                                                   $1,000           Vehicle
                                                                                                    operating
                                                                                                    in the
                                                                                                    Village2
                                                                                                    $150 per
                                                                                                    vehicle
Ice Cream Truck                                                                    $150             operating
                                                                                                    in the
                                                                                                    village
                                                                                                    $100 per
Billboards, Benches, and Bus Shelters (Advertising)                                $0               location
                                                                                                    in the
                                                                                                    village
                                                                                                    $50 per
                                                                                                    machine
Third-party (contracted) Vending & ATM Machines                                    $0               operating
                                                                                                    in the
                                                                                                    village
                                                                                                    $1,000 per
                                                                                                    video
                                                                                                    gaming
Video Gaming Terminal Operators                                                    $1,000           terminal
                                                                                                    operating
                                                                                                    in the
                                                                                                    village1
                                                                                                    $1,000 per
                                                                                                    Towing
Towing Companies                                                                   $0               Vehicle
                                                                                                    operating
                                                                                                    in the
                                                                                                    village
Commercial Waste Haulers                                                           $0               $1,000
Landscapers                                                                        $0               $100
Junkers/Scrappers                                                                  $0               $50
                                                                                                    $150 per
                                                                                                    vehicle
Ice Cream Truck                                                                    $150             operating
                                                                                                    in the
                                                                                                    village
All other businesses not detailed above that regularly provide services or
otherwise operate within the vVillage.3 For purposes of this fee, “regularly” $0               $150
shall mean more frequently than once or very occasionally.
Notes:
1. Underreporting of gaming terminals is subject to a fine of $5,000 per
underreported machine.
     2. Underreporting of towing vehicles is subject to a fine of $5,000 per
underreported vehicle.
3. For purposes of this fee, “regularly” shall mean more frequently than once
or very occasionally.
F. Liquor Licenses: In addition to any fee specified in Table 1 or 2 above, an
establishment with a liquor license issued pursuant to chapter 3 (Liquor
Control) of this title shall pay the additional liquor license fee as set forth
in Table 3 below, effective with the licensing period commencing July 1, 2025:
 
TABLE 3 -                                                                Liquor  License
Liquor License Class Description                                         License Fee $
                                                                        (Class)
Packaged Goods (various establishments and retail stores, other than
convenience stores, engaging in sales of packaged goods, e.g., liquor    LIQ-P1  $1,500
stores, grocery stores, drug stores, etc.)
 
Packaged Goods (Retail) (convenience stores only)                        LIQ-P2  $1,000
On-Premises Consumption – All Liquor (e.g. taverns, bars, restaurants,
hotels, banquet halls, etc.)                                             LIQ-C   $750
 
On-Premises Consumption - Beer & Wine Only (e.g. taverns, bars,          LIQ-C-  $750
restaurants, hotels, banquet halls, etc.)                                BW
Manufacturers                                                            LIQ-M   $500
Non-Profits                                                              LIQ-NP  $0
Special Events                                                           LIQ-SE  $0
Video Gaming (Supplemental)                                              LIQ-S-  $0
                                                                         VG
Note: The number of liquor licenses authorized to be issued is set and amended
from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees.
 
G. Tobacco Licenses: In addition to any fee specified in Table 1 above, an
establishment with a tobacco license issued pursuant to chapter 15 (Regulation
of Tobacco Products) of this title shall pay the additional tobacco license fee
as set forth in Table 4 below, effective with the licensing period commencing
July 1, 2025:
 
 
 
TABLE 4 –
Tobacco Retailer License Class        Tobacco License (Class) License Fee $
Description
 
Class 1: Grocery stores, convenience
stores, liquor stores and gasoline    TOB-1                   $500
stations
 
Class 2: All other establishments
excluding grocery stores, convenience
stores, liquor stores and gasoline    TOB-2                   $1,000
stations
 
Note: The number of Tobacco licenses authorized to be issued is set and amended
from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees.
 
Note: A tobacco retailer's license shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of,
any automatic vending machine operator’s license(s) which may be required
relative to the sale of tobacco products.
 
 H.   Other Annual Fees: In addition to any fee specified in Tables 1 through 4
above, any business requiring food safety inspections pursuant to section 8-2B-
6 of this Code shall pay the additional fees set forth in Table 5 below
effective with the licensing period commencing July 1, 2025:
 
 
 
TABLE 5 –
Other Annual Fees                               Other Fee $ Per
 
Businesses that require food safety inspections $175        Year
I. Non-Owner Occupied Residential Dwelling Unit Permit Fees: The owner of any
property subject to the Non-Owner Occupied Residential Dwelling Unit Occupancy
Permit Program set forth in Article 6-5B of this Code shall pay the fees set
forth in Table 6 below, effective with the licensing period commencing July 1,
2025:
 
 
 
TABLE 6 -
Non-Owner Occupied Residential Dwelling Unit Permit Fees1,2,3
 
Property Type                                 Base Fee $ Annual FeePLUS $ Per
Residential: Multi-Family Dwellings,          $100       $100             Unit
Apartments, Townhomes, Condominiums, Duplexes
Residential: Single-Family 1Homes             $100       $250             Unit
Generally Applicable Notes for Table 6:
1. Underreporting of units is subject to a fine of $500 per under-reported non-
single-family unit, and $1,250 per single-family home.
2. Excluded from these fees are units occupied by immediate family members as
defined in Section 6-5B-7.A. of this Code. A sworn affidavit regarding the
family relationship is required (see Section 6-5B-7.B. of this Code).
3. If any one room is leased/rented to a non-occupant of the property, that
entire property will be subject to the Fee in the amount set forth in
the schedule above.
 
J. Commercial Landlord Licensing Fee (Non-Owner Occupied Properties): The owner
of any property subject to the Commercial Landlord Licensing and Commercial
Occupancy Permit Program for Non-Owner Occupied Properties set forth in Chapter
3-35 of this Code shall pay the fees set forth in Table 7 below, effective with
the licensing period commencing January 1, 2026:
 
 
 
TABLE 7 –
Commercial Landlord Licensing Fee (Non-Owner-Occupied Properties)
Property Type                   Base Fee $ PLUS $ Per
Commercial Landlords with                         Total square- footage of
Commercial Rental Units as      $150       $0.20  occupied, non- exempt
defined in Chapter 3-35 of this                   commercial rental units1
Code
1Total square footage shall be calculated using the rules set forth in
subsection C above, except that only spaces meeting the definition of a
commercial rental unit as set forth in Section 3-35-2 of this Code shall be
counted. Vacant spaces may be excluded from the calculation. In addition, the
square footage of any commercial rental unit where it is demonstrated by the
commercial landlord that at least 50% of the gross revenues generated by the
lessee are subject to a municipal sales, video gaming or other village-imposed
tax other than property tax, are exempt from payment of the licensing fee and
their square footage may be excluded from the calculation. See Section 3-35-
4 for additional details.
 
K. Miscellaneous Fees: Owners, licensees and permittees seeking certain other
miscellaneous business or commercial activity licenses or permits shall pay the
fees set forth in Table 8 below, as applicable:
 
 
TABLE 8 –
Miscellaneous Fees
 
Activity Type                    Base Permit or License Fee $ PLUS $ Per
Garage, Rummage or Similar Sale  $25                          $0     Sale Event
(see Chapter 3-13)
Live Entertainment               $0                           $0     Year
Outdoor Food and Beverage        $0                           $0     Year
Service (see Chapter 3-7H)
 
SECTION 3: Section 6-5B-7 (Responsibilities of Owner, Agent and/or Manager) of
Article B (Rental Occupancy Permit Program) in Title 6 (Building Regulations),
Chapter 5 (Property Maintenance Regulations), of the Village Code of Oak Lawn
is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows (additions to existing
text marked with underlined text; deletions to existing text marked using
strikethrough):
 
“6-5B-7: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER, AGENT AND/OR MANAGER:
A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall
have the meanings hereinafter ascribed to them:
DWELLING: Any enclosed space which is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or that is occupied for
living purposes.
DWELLING UNIT: A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
IMMEDIATE FAMILY: Immediate family means kinship members including:
(1) Mother: A female parent;
(2) Father: A male parent;
(3) Son: A male child of the parent(s);
(4) Daughter: A female child of the parent(s);
(5) Brother: A male child of the same parent(s);
(6) Sister: A female child of the same parent(s);
(7) Grandfather: A parent's father;
(8) Grandmother: A parent's mother;
(9) Grandson: A child's son;
(10) Granddaughter: A child's daughter.
 
MANAGING AGENT: Any person or firm, acting for another, with authority to rent
or otherwise authorize occupancy, manage and make expenditures.
NON-OWNER OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT: Any multiple dwelling or dwelling
unit which is not owner occupied, and which is either rented, leased, occupied
or made available for leasing or rental or occupancy to others by the property
owner or his/her agent. The occupancy of a single room or the sharing of a
dwelling unit between the property owner of the dwelling unit and others shall
not constitute a non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit. The term
includes the occupancy of property pursuant to articles of agreement for
purchase or a contract for deed until the deed is delivered by the owner.
B.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, lease or
otherwise allow a dwelling or dwelling unit under their ownership to be
occupied by others as a non- owner occupied residential dwelling unit unless a
non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit permit is in effect, as provided
by this article. Permits shall be issued by the Community Development Director
or their designee for a period of one year from July 1 to June 30. Any permit
may be transferred to another person, subject to completion and approval of a
new permit application by the new permitee. In the event an owner can submit a
sworn affidavit that an immediate family member is occupying the dwelling, the
owner shall not be required to register the property after submittal and
Village review and approval of said affidavit. The owner shall instead submit
the name and contact phone number for the occupant for the Village records.
C.   Application: No non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit permit shall
be issued except upon a receipt of a completed Village of Oak Lawn landlord
permit application filed with the Community Development Director or his
designee. Except as hereinafter provided, such applications shall be submitted
to the Community Development Director or his designee no later than July 1
preceding the permit year being applied for with the appropriate fees. The
applications shall set forth, but not be limited to, the following information:
1.   Full name and address of the legal owner; if owned by a trust, a trust
disclosure is required.
2.   The permit application shall designate three (3) contacts, including the
property owner, their names, addresses and phone numbers for twenty four (24)
hour contact in case of an emergency.
3.   The permit application shall list all the non-owner occupied residential
dwelling units owned or managed by the applicant in the Village of Oak Lawn.
4.   Proof of ongoing rodent abatement services and quarterly rodent activity
reports are required to register all non-owner occupied residential dwelling
unit properties.
5.   A roster of current tenants.
6.   An affidavit of other proof regarding the existence of a working fire
alarm/alarm system for the property.
D.   Reports: The permitee shall report to the Code Enforcement Department any
changes in the information provided on the application or a conveyance of the
property, within seven (7) days of said change or conveyance.
E.   Issuance Of Permit; Payment of Permitting Fees; Fee: No permit shall be
issued until the applicable permit fees as set forth in Section 3-1-1-7 of this
Code have been paid.
Renewal shall be required annually. 
F.   Outstanding Monies Due And Owing The Village: Before a permit may be
issued to a permitteepermitee hereunder, the permittee shall pay all
outstanding fees, fines or penalties due and owing the Village.
G.   Fire Alarms/Alarm Systems: All non-owner occupied residential dwelling
properties must have a working fire-alarm system. Such systems are subject to
inspection by the Village at any time. The penalty for inoperable or non-
existent fire-alarm/alarm systems is five (5) times the applicable annual per
unit fee set forth in Section 3-1-1- 7 of this Code, multiplied by the number
of units in the building.”
 
SECTION 4:    The fees imposed in the Ordinance are, in most cases, intended to
replace existing fees. There may therefore be, in certain instances, existing
fees located elsewhere in the Code that the fees imposed here are intended to
replace. Where a direct conflict exists between a fee imposed here and a fee
located elsewhere in the Oak Lawn Village Code, it is the intent of the
President and Board of Trustees that the fee imposed in this Ordinance shall
prevail and that the fee not be required to be paid twice. Conflicting fees
located elsewhere in the Code shall be deleted in a subsequent ordinance.
 
   SECTION 5: Any policy, resolution or ordinance of the Village that conflicts
with the provisions of this Ordinance shall be and is hereby repealed to the
extent of such conflict.
 
   SECTION 6: This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its adoption, approval, and publication in the manner provided by law.
   ADOPTED this 23rd day of September, 2025, pursuant to a roll call vote as
follows:
 
   AYES:  Trustees Soch, Pembroke, Olejniczak, Mallo, Stalker and Desmond
   NAYS:    
   ABSENT:    
 
APPROVED by me this 23rd day of September, 2025, and attested by the Village
Clerk on the same day.
            
                
_______________________________
                         Village President
ATTEST:
 
____________________________
Village Clerk
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            ) SS
COUNTY OF COOK      )
 
CLERK'S CERTIFICATE
 
   I, Claire Henning, Village Clerk of the Village of Oak Lawn, in the County
of Cook and State of Illinois, certify that the attached document is a true and
correct copy of that certain Ordinance now on file in my Office, entitled:
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-15-53
 
AN ORDINANCE MAKING FURTHER AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 3-1-1-7 (FEE SCHEDULES) OF
TITLE 3 (BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS), CHAPTER 1 (GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR
BUSINESSES, CERTIFICATES, LICENSES AND PERMITS) AND VARIOUS OTHER SECTIONS OF
THE OAK LAWN VILLAGE CODE RELATIVE TO BUSINESS AND OTHER LICENSING AND
REGISTRATION, AND RELATED FEES (UPDATE ORDINANCE NO. 2)
 
which Ordinance was passed by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Oak Lawn
at a Special Regular Village Board Meeting on the 23rd day of September, 2025,
at which meeting a quorum was present, and approved by the President of the
Village of Oak Lawn on the 23rd day of September, 2025.
 
I further certify that the vote on the question of the passage of said
Ordinance by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Oak Lawn was taken by Ayes
and Nays and recorded in the minutes of the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Oak Lawn, and that the result of said vote was as follows, to-wit:
 
   AYES: Trustees Soch, Pembroke, Olejniczak, Mallo, Stalker and Desmond
 
   NAYS:                            
 
   ABSENT:             _______            
 
   I do further certify that the original Ordinance, of which the foregoing is
a true copy, is entrusted to my care for safekeeping, and that I am the lawful
keeper of the same.
 
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the
Village of Oak Lawn, this 23rd day of September, 2025.
 
 
                        _____________________________
                        Claire Henning, Village Clerk
 
 
[SEAL]   
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Interpretation and Application
1-1-6: Historical Citation Procedure
1-1-7: Illinois Compiled Statutes
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of Oak Lawn. This
Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the OAK LAWN VILLAGE
CODE, and it is hereby published by authority of the Board of Trustees and
shall be kept up to date as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter under the direction of the Village Attorney, acting for
said Village Board of Trustees. Any reference to the number of any section
contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same
number, its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty
clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is
made to this Village Code by title in any legal document. (1951 Code 19-1-1;
1985 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the Village of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Code. (1985 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Village Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
this Village Code. (1951 Code 19-1-3; 1985 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Village Board. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this Village Code shall make
every effort to maintain this Code in an up to date and efficient manner. He
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the Village
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and shall
be returned to the office of the Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
Village Board. (1951 Code 19-1-3; 1985 Code)
1-1-5: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION:
In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, said
provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the
subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision
imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be
controlling. (1951 Code 19-1-2)
1-1-6: HISTORICAL CITATION PROCEDURE:
The following is an example of the method used in citing the various provisions
of the 1951 Municipal Code as said provisions are found in this Code. The
appropriate amending ordinances are listed in numerical order following the
1951 Code citation: (1951 Code 2-9-6; Ords. 487, 76-7-12). In the 1951 Code
reference, the first number indicates the Chapter, the second number indicates
the Article and the third number indicates the section; also, the ordinance
citations show only the ordinance number and not the date and section of the
ordinance. (1985 Code)
1-1-7: ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES:
Pursuant to Public Act 87-1005, the Illinois Revised Statutes were recodified
as the Illinois Compiled Statutes. As such, all references contained in this
Code to the Illinois Revised Statutes are hereby revised to read as if said
reference is to the corresponding section of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, as
such correspondence is shown on the official cross-reference published by the
Illinois Legislative Reference Bureau, as more fully set forth in the Tables
Volume of the State Bar Association Edition of the Illinois Compiled Statutes
published by West Publishing Co. A copy of said cross-reference publication is
on file with the Village Clerk. (Ord. 93-12-43)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Village
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; and all special ordinances. (1985 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as
this Village Code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this
Village Code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in
respect to such provisions only. (1985 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in
force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such
provisions may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied to any
judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Village Code. (1951 Code 19-1-3; 1985 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Village Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Village Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1951 Code 19-1-3; 1985 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this Village Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this Village Code by words importing the singular
number only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and
females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be applied to any section
of this Village Code which contains any express provision excluding such
construction or where the subject matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in his Code
shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the
Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
   A.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
Village has been changed in the content of this Village Code to "title",
"chapter", "section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for
organizational and clarification purposes only. Such change to the Village's
ordinances is not meant to amend the passage and effective dates of such
original ordinances.
   B.   Computation of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the
day on which such notice is given, or such act is done, shall be counted in
computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
not be counted. Time shall mean Central Standard Time, except when the State of
Illinois is on Daylight Saving Time and then it shall mean Central Daylight
Saving Time.
   C.   Delegation of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other Village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   E.   Nontechnical and Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired peculiar and appropriate
meanings in law shall be construed and understood according to such meanings.
   F.   Shall: The word "shall" is mandatory. (1951 Code 19-1-2; 1985 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in
this Code, they shall have the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the
context makes such meaning repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person on behalf of another.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of Trustees of the Village.
CODE: The Village Code of Oak Lawn, Illinois and amendments thereto.
CORPORATE or VILLAGE LIMITS: The legal boundaries of the Village of Oak Lawn.
COUNTY: The County of Cook, State of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
Village of Oak Lawn".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the Village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the Village shall be the same as the calendar
year.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: See Village President.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OATH: Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words
"swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Village
of Oak Lawn".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or a
part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right of interest
therein.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, this term shall be understood
to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
SIDEWALK: Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
STATE: The State of Illinois.
STREET: This term shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
VILLAGE: The Village of Oak Lawn, County of Cook, State of Illinois.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The President of the Village may be referred to as "Mayor"
or "President" of the Village.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN; IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1951 Code 2-8-2, 19-1-2; Ord. 68-26-72; 1985 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1951 Code 19-1-3; 1985 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-1-1: Imprisonment Fine Surcharge
1-4-2: Citation Procedure (Rep. by Ord. 08-16-41)
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-5: Alternative Penalties; Compliance Tickets (Rep. by Ord. 08-16-41)
1-4-6: Release Of Liens; Fees
1-4-7: Community Service
1-4-8: Repeat Offenders
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Except as otherwise provided in section
1-4-1-1 of this chapter, any person convicted of a violation of any section or
provision of this code, where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished
by a fine not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not to exceed seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for any offense. The person upon whom any fine
or penalty is imposed, upon order of the court before which the conviction is
had, may be imprisoned until the fine, penalty and costs are paid. No
imprisonment, however, shall exceed six (6) months for any one offense. (Ord.
09-03-09)
1-4-1-1: IMPRISONMENT FINE SURCHARGE:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this code, in the event
that a person is arrested and imprisoned for a violation of any provision of
this code, and such person is subsequently convicted for said violation, the
fine assessed for the violation shall be increased by the amount of eighty
dollars ($80.00) per day for each day (or portion thereof) that the violator
was imprisoned in the village jail (the "imprisonment fine surcharge"). The
imprisonment fine surcharge shall be assessed by the court, the administrative
adjudication hearing officer, or such other tribunal of competent jurisdiction
before which the conviction is had. (Ord. 09-03-09)
1-4-2: CITATION PROCEDURE:
(Rep. by Ord. 08-16-41)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1951 Code 19-1-3; 1985 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1951 Code 19-1-4; 1985 Code)
1-4-5: ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES; COMPLIANCE TICKETS:
(Rep. by Ord. 08-16-41)
1-4-6: RELEASE OF LIENS; FEES:
Whenever the village has placed a lien against a parcel of property as a result
of any provision of this code or state statute, said lien shall not be released
until the village has received reimbursement for the following costs, in
addition to payment of the lien amount:
   A.   The actual cost of preparing the lien document;
   B.   The actual cost of recording the lien; and
   C.   The actual cost of preparing the release of lien document. (Ord. 94-3-
11)
1-4-7: COMMUNITY SERVICE:
In lieu of, or in addition to, the general penalties set forth in section
1-4-1 of this chapter, or any other section of this code which provides for a
monetary penalty for violation thereof, any person convicted of a violation of
any provision or section of this code may be required to perform some
reasonable public service work/community service work. (Ord. 95-20-78)
1-4-8: REPEAT OFFENDERS:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code which may require the
issuance of a notice of violation and a cure period prior to the issuance of a
court citation for a violation of this code, no such notice of violation or
cure period shall be required where a person or said person's property is in
violation of this code and said person has been issued a notice of violation
relative to the same violation within the previous twelve (12) month period. In
such case, a court citation can be immediately issued relative to the
identified code violation.
   B.   In the event that any person has been found guilty of a violation of
this code by a court of competent jurisdiction within the twelve (12) month
period preceding a second conviction for the same offense, unless a greater
minimum fine is provided for in the code provision that has been violated, the
minimum fine for said second offense shall be not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 97-11-52)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election, Term Of Office, Qualifications
1-5-2: Salary
1-5-3: Function As Mayor
1-5-4: Powers And Duties
1-5-5: Ordinance Approval Or Veto
1-5-6: President Pro Tempore
1-5-7: Emergency Interim Village President
1-5-1: ELECTION, TERM OF OFFICE, QUALIFICATIONS:
There shall be elected at the regular village election a president of the
village, who shall hold his office for four (4) years and until his successor
is elected and qualified. He shall be a citizen of the United States, a
qualified elector, and shall have resided within the corporate limits of the
village for at least one year next preceding the election at which he is a
candidate. (1951 Code 1-2-1)
1-5-2: SALARY:
The president shall devote such time to the duties of his office as the
faithful discharge thereof may require and shall receive the following as
compensation:
   A.   As established in 2005, the president currently receives such salary as
reflected in the most recent pay and benefit ordinance.
   B.   Beginning June 1, 2025, for terms commencing after the consolidated
election in April of 2025, the use of pay and benefit ordinances to set
salaries will be discontinued, and, instead, the president shall receive a
salary of $4,200 per month, payable in accordance with the village’s regular
bi-weekly payroll schedule. Beginning June 1, 2026, and each June 1st
thereafter for as long as the individual remains in office, an incumbent
president shall receive an increase in the compensation then in effect equal to
the percent change in the Chicago Area Consumer Price Index for all Urban
Consumers (CPI-U) as calculated and published by the federal government for the
period beginning May of the previous year and ending April of the current year,
rounded to the next highest dollar amount as appropriate for purposes of
resulting in an even dollar amount for payroll purposes. Thereafter, newly
elected non-incumbent presidents’ compensation shall begin at a rate of $4,200
per month, payable in accordance with the village’s regular bi-weekly payroll
schedule, and after twelve months will be increased annually on June 1st of
each year, as indicated above based on the applicable CPI-U, for as long as the
individual remains in office.
   C.   Beginning June 1, 2025, for terms commencing after the April 2025
consolidated election, the village president shall not receive any additional
compensation for serving as Liquor Commissioner.
   D.   In addition, the village president is currently eligible, and will
remain eligible, to participate in the following village group employee benefit
plans, on the same basis and terms that are applicable to non-union employees:
group health insurance, health insurance buy-out, dental and vision insurance,
life insurance, and flexible benefit plan. In addition, the village president
is currently eligible, and will remain eligible, to participate in other
voluntary benefit plans, such as accident, critical illness, hospital, and
legal, with costs to be fully paid by the participants.
   E.   In accordance with Resolution No. 13-11-28, the village president is
not eligible to participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund (IMRF).
   F.   No other compensation shall be allowed the village president. (1951
Code 1-2-2, 1-2-3; Ords. 65-40-2, 68(8)-11-38, 82-1-4, 82-1-5, 82-11-42, 83-9-
18; 1985 Code; Ords. 93-9-27, 94-12-53, 05-15-50; 24-18-67)
1-5-3: FUNCTION AS MAYOR:
The president of the board of trustees shall perform the duties and exercise
the powers conferred upon the mayor of a city. The president may be referred to
as mayor. He may sign as mayor in his official capacity as president. Where the
word "president" is used throughout this code and in any village matter, it
shall also mean "mayor". If the word "mayor" is used, it shall also mean
"president". (1951 Code 1-2-3; Ord. 65-40-2)
1-5-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General: The president shall supervise the conduct of all appointed
officers and see that they faithfully and efficiently discharge the duties of
their respective offices; he shall inquire into all reasonable complaints made
against them and cause all their neglects or violations of duties to be
promptly corrected; and he shall, from time to time, give the board of trustees
such information relative to the affairs of the village as he may deem proper
and recommend to it consideration of any measure he may deem expedient, tending
to the well being, security and improvement of the village.
   B.   Pardons: The president may, for good and sufficient reasons, release
any person convicted of or any person imprisoned for violation of any village
ordinance. The president shall cause a proper record thereof to be made and
shall report such release with the cause therefor to the board of trustees at
its first session thereafter. The president shall have the power to direct the
prosecuting attorney to nonsuit any ordinance violation pending in the circuit
court.
   C.   Sign Documents; Revoke Licenses:
      1.   The president shall sign all commissions, licenses, permits and
warrants granted, issued or ordered by the board of trustees, or authorized by
the ordinances of the village, and may revoke any such licenses for the causes
herein provided.
      2.   The president shall sign, and is hereby authorized to sign in behalf
of the village, all instruments necessary to the prompt prosecution or defense
of any or all actions brought by or against said village including bonds for
injunction. (1951 Code 1-2-6, 1-2-8, 1-2-9, 1-2-11; 1985 Code)
1-5-5: ORDINANCE APPROVAL OR VETO:
   A.   Veto Powers: The president of the board of trustees may exercise the
same veto powers, and with like effect, as the mayor of a city, and the board
of trustees may pass ordinances over such veto in like manner as a city
council.
   B.   Procedure: The president shall carefully inspect all ordinances passed
by the board of trustees and fix his official signature to such as he may
approve and return them to the village clerk. Such ordinances as he shall not
approve shall be returned to the board of trustees, with his objections thereto
in writing, at the next regular meeting of the board of trustees occurring
after the passage thereof. Such veto may extend to any one or more items or
appropriations contained in any ordinance making appropriations, or to the
entire ordinance and in case the veto only extends to a part of such ordinance,
the residue thereof shall take effect and be in force; but in case the
president shall fail to return any ordinance with his objections thereto by the
time aforesaid, he shall be deemed to have approved such ordinance and the same
shall take effect accordingly. (1951 Code 1-2-3, 1-2-7; Ord. 65-40-2)
1-5-6: PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE:
During a temporary absence of the president or his inability to act, the board
of trustees shall elect one of its members to act as a president pro tempore
who, during the president's absence or disability, shall possess the powers of
the president. (1951 Code 1-2-4)
1-5-7: EMERGENCY INTERIM VILLAGE PRESIDENT:
The village president shall designate in writing and file with the village
clerk and village manager at least three (3) and no more than seven (7)
emergency interim successor village presidents pursuant to the emergency
interim executive succession act 1  to act in the event of the unavailability
of the president during an emergency. As provided by the act, the following
terms shall have the meanings hereinafter ascribed to them:
ATTACK: An attack or series of attacks by an enemy of the United States
causing, or which may cause, substantial damage or injury to civilian property
or persons in the United States in any manner by sabotage or by the use of
bombs, missiles, shellfire, or atomic, radiological, chemical, bacteriological
or biological means or other weapons or processes.
DISASTER: A situation determined by the governor to be an occurrence or threat
of catastrophic and widespread injury or loss of life or property resulting
from any natural or manmade cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood,
earthquake, epidemic and explosion.
EMERGENCY: An attack or a disaster.
EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSOR: A person designated pursuant to this chapter in
the event the president is unavailable to exercise the powers and discharge the
duties of president until a successor is appointed or elected and qualified as
may be provided by the constitution, statutes, charters and ordinances or until
the lawful incumbent is able to resume the exercise of the powers and discharge
the duties of the office.
UNAVAILABLE: Means either that a vacancy in the office of president exists and
there is no deputy authorized to exercise all of the powers and discharge the
duties of the office or that the lawful incumbent of the office (including any
deputy exercising the powers and discharging the duties of an office because of
a vacancy) and his duly authorized deputy are absent or unable to exercise the
powers and discharge the duties of the office. (Ord. 09-13-28)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 275/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Legislative Body
1-6-2: Compensation
1-6-3: Meetings Of The Board
1-6-4: Quorum
1-6-5: Rules Of Order
1-6-6: Election Districts
1-6-1: LEGISLATIVE BODY:
The legislative body of the village shall consist of the president of the
village and six (6) trustees who shall possess the qualifications for office,
be elected by the legal voters of the municipality, take the oath of office and
perform the duties provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes 1  and this code.
The six (6) trustees shall represent six (6) districts within the village such
that there shall be one trustee from each of six (6) districts as established
in section
1-6-6 of this chapter according to law. (1951 Code 1-1-1; 1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-5-3, 5/3-11-1 et seq., 5/5-2-15.
1-6-2: COMPENSATION:
   A.   As established in 1985, each trustee currently receives such
compensation as reflected in the most recent pay and benefit ordinance.
   B.   Beginning June 1, 2025, for trustees whose terms commence in May, 2025,
after the consolidated election in April of 2025, the use of pay and benefit
ordinances to set salaries will be discontinued, and, instead, such trustees
shall receive a salary of $1,500 per month, payable in accordance with the
village’s regular bi-weekly payroll schedule. Further, beginning June 1, 2026,
and each June 1st thereafter for as long as the individual remains in office,
such incumbent trustees shall receive an increase in the compensation then in
effect equal to the percent change in the Chicago Area Consumer Price Index for
all Urban Consumers (CPI-U) as calculated and published by the federal
government for the period beginning May of the previous year and ending April
of the current year, rounded to the next highest dollar amount as appropriate
for purposes of resulting in an even dollar amount for payroll purposes.
Thereafter, a newly elected non-incumbent trustee’s compensation shall begin at
a rate of $1,500 per month, payable in accordance with the village’s regular
bi-weekly payroll schedule, and after twelve months will be increased annually
on June 1st of each year, as indicated above based on the applicable CPI-U, for
as long as the individual remains in office.
   C.   Beginning June 1, 2027, for trustees whose terms commence in May, 2027,
after the consolidated election in April of 2027, the use of pay and benefit
ordinances to set salaries will be discontinued, and, instead, such trustees
shall receive a salary of $1,500 per month, payable in accordance with the
village’s regular bi-weekly payroll schedule. Further, beginning June 1, 2028,
and each June 1st thereafter for as long as the individual remains in office,
such incumbent trustees shall receive an increase in the compensation then in
effect equal to the percent change in the Chicago Area Consumer Price Index for
all Urban Consumers (CPI-U) as calculated and published by the federal
government for the period beginning May of the previous year and ending April
of the current year, rounded to the next highest dollar amount as appropriate
for purposes of resulting in an even dollar amount for payroll purposes.
Thereafter, a newly elected non-incumbent trustee’s compensation shall begin at
a rate of $1,500 per month, payable in accordance with the village’s regular
bi-weekly payroll schedule, and after twelve months will be increased annually
on June 1st of each year thereafter, as indicated above based on the applicable
CPI-U, for as long as the individual remains in office.
   D.   In addition, village trustees are currently eligible, and will remain
eligible, to participate in the following village group employee benefit plans,
on the same basis and terms that are applicable to non-union employees: group
health insurance, health insurance buy-out, dental and vision insurance, life
insurance, and flexible benefit plan. In addition, village trustees are
currently eligible, and will remain eligible, to participate in other voluntary
benefit plans, such as accident, critical illness, hospital, and legal, with
costs to be fully paid by the participants.
   E.   In accordance with Resolution Nos. 13-11-28 and 17-14-53, village
trustees are not eligible to participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement
Fund (IMRF).
   F.   No other compensation shall be allowed to a village trustee. (1985
Code, Ord. 24-18-67)
1-6-3: MEETINGS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the president and board of
trustees shall be held on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month. The
regular meeting held on the second Tuesday of each month shall be at seven
thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. at the village hall. The meeting on the fourth
Tuesday of each month shall be at nine o’clock (9:00) a.m. at the village hall.
In case such meeting time shall fall on a legal holiday, then such meeting
shall be held the following day after such legal holiday, or, by a two-thirds
(2/3) vote of the board, the meeting may be eliminated or rescheduled. Any
regular meeting which does not fall on a legal holiday may be eliminated or
rescheduled by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the board. Any regular meeting which
does not fall on a legal holiday may be canceled or rescheduled by a two-thirds
(2/3) vote of the board.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be held at any time on call of
the president or any two (2) or more trustees. Such call shall be in writing,
duly signed and shall be presented to the clerk who shall proceed immediately
to cause notice of the same to be served upon the president and trustees in
person or by registered letter, and in such notice shall be described in brief
the nature or object of the call.
   C.   Open To The Public: Meetings of every kind and nature shall be open to
the public, except where specifically exempted by statute. A meeting may be
open to the public and then closed to the public for the purpose of considering
matters specifically allowed to be considered at a closed meeting by statute 1
. Final action on all matters considered at a closed meeting shall be made at
an open meeting.
   D.   Public Notice: A schedule of all the regular meetings of the board of
trustees and of any board or committee shall be posted on all the buildings of
the village having an office. In addition thereto, there shall be posted on the
bulletin boards of all of said buildings at least twenty four (24) hours before
said meeting, a notice of any special meeting or any reconvened regular meeting
where the subject was not on the agenda at the scheduled regular meeting.
Notices shall be sent to news media when required by statute.
   E.   Public Announcement Policy:
      1.   Prior to regularly scheduled Oak Lawn village board meetings, Oak
Lawn families, Oak Lawn businesses, and nonprofit organizations will be given a
maximum three (3) minute time slot to present public announcements which will
be aired on the village's public access channel. Speakers will be required to
sign in and will be taken in that order. Any speaker that has had a time slot
within the last month will be moved to the end of the list to provide equal
access to all. Any props are limited to being of poster size. Filming will
begin promptly at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and end at seven twenty five
o'clock (7:25) P.M. for the regular meeting on the second Tuesday of the month,
filming will begin promptly at eight thirty o’clock (8:30) A.M. and end at nine
o’clock (9:00) A.M. for the regular meeting on the fourth Tuesday of the month.
Speakers will be taken as long as there is time allotted.
      2.   The village of Oak Lawn reserves the right to cancel any
announcement it deems inappropriate including, but not limited to, commercial
advertisements and political announcements in support of any one candidate,
cause, or viewpoint subject to a pending vote or ballot question or does not
meet the requirements of being a not for profit, an Oak Lawn family, or Oak
Lawn business. The village of Oak Lawn does not guarantee the number of
showings or the times of the showings. The village does not endorse any one
organization over another nor does it provide editing or video enhancements to
the output. (1951 Code 1-1-2, 1-1-3, 1-1-4; Ords. 69-6-17, 73-16-15, 73-29-56,
73-35-68, 73-40-78, 81-36-76; 1985 Code; Ords. 86-3-10, 92-17-64, 05-12-31, 12-
20-68, 19-28-91)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
1-6-4: QUORUM:
A majority of the board of trustees elected shall constitute a quorum to do
business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time, and may compel
the attendance of absentees under such penalties as may be prescribed by
ordinance. (1951 Code 1-1-4)
1-6-5: RULES OF ORDER:
The following shall be the rules of order for the conduct of village business
by the president and board of trustees:
   A.   Opening Of Meetings: The village president shall take the chair at the
time designated for the commencement of the meeting. The president shall
immediately call the members to order.
The clerk shall proceed to call the roll of members, marking the members
present and absent for inclusion in the minutes. If a quorum is present, the
clerk shall announce that fact, and the board shall proceed with the order of
business.
   B.   Procedure In The Absence Of The President: If the president is not
present, the Board of Trustees shall elect an acting Chairman who shall act in
the President's stead. At such a meeting, the Clerk shall preside at the
commencement of the meeting for the purpose of calling the roll of members and
entertaining motions on the question of an acting Chairman. The acting Chairman
shall serve only until the adjournment of that meeting.
   C.   Order Of Business: The order of business at a Village Board meeting
shall be:
      1.   Call to order, roll call, Pledge Of Allegiance.
      2.   Public participation. Each person who desires to speak shall write
his/her name on a sign in sheet to be provided by the village clerk and then
wait until they are recognized by the village president, or temporary
chairperson in the absence of the village president. When recognized, each
person who desires to speak will then state his/her name and any comment or
question he/she may have. Each person who desires to speak shall have a maximum
of three (3) minutes to address the village board. This portion of the meeting
shall generally not exceed thirty (30) minutes, unless a majority of the
village board agrees to extend the time allotted for public participation for
that specific meeting.
      3.   Approval of minutes of previous meeting(s).
      4.   Employee recognition and awards.
      5.   New business of trustees.
      6.   Consent agenda.
      7.   Village manager's report.
      8.   Village attorney's report.
      9.   Committee reports.
      10.   Village clerk's report.
      11.   Semimonthly disbursements.
      12.   Village president's report.
      13.   Adjournment.
   D.   Powers Of The President: The Village President, as Chairman, shall
preserve order and decorum. The President may speak upon and decide all
questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Village Board. The President
shall conduct all business before the Board with fairness and impartiality to a
speedy and proper result.
   E.   Questions And Motions: Every question shall be distinctly stated by the
President before it is open for debate. Every question shall be reduced to
writing by its maker if requested by the President, Clerk or any Board member.
   F.   Addressing The Board: Any Board member who wishes to speak shall
audibly address the Chair as "Mr. President" or "Madam President". The Board
member may not speak further until recognized and named.
Trustees shall treat each other with respect and will address and refer to each
other as "Trustee (name)". The Village President and Trustees shall treat the
other members as equals. No Board member shall make any comments about another
Board member which are not pertinent to the discussions of the issue at hand.
The Chairman is obliged to recognize any Board member who wishes to speak
before a question is put to a vote.
   G.   Order And Decorum:
      1.   The Chairman shall preserve order among the audience and act to
remove anyone from the premises who, after due notice, continues to speak to
the Board without being recognized or who disrupts the decorum of the meeting.
Should the Chairman fail to call such an audience member to order, a Trustee
may request that the Chairman call the person to order by calling for a point
of order. A Trustee who is called to order shall immediately stop speaking.
Upon a request for a point of order, the Chairman must rule as to whether the
person is out of order.
      2.   The Chairman shall enforce order seriously and without regard to
political allegiance. The Chairman shall prevent disturbances against the
Board.
      3.   If there is no appeal, the decision of the Chairman shall be
conclusive. However, if a Trustee appeals the decision of the Chairman, the
Board shall decide the matter without debate by a roll call. The question shall
be: "Shall the decision of the Chairman be upheld?".
   H.   Consideration Of Motions: When a motion has been made and seconded, it
shall be debated. Following debate, the question shall be called for a vote.
Should the Chairman fail to call the question, or refuse to call the question,
any Trustee can address the Chairman and state, "Call the question". If the
Chairman continues to refuse to call the question, the Trustee can call for a
point of order, which requires the Chairman to make a ruling, which ruling may
then be appealed.
   I.   Duty To Vote: Whenever any Trustee, or the Village President, has a
present interest in the matter before the Board, he or she shall not vote on
the matter and shall explain the reason for his or her abstention. The vote of
a member who passes, votes "present", or votes "abstain", shall be added to the
majority of those voting on the question, unless the vote is a tie.
   J.   Consideration Of Postponed Questions: When a question is postponed
indefinitely, it shall not be voted upon before the next regular Board meeting.
   K.   Standing Committees:
      1.   The Committee of the Whole shall consist of all Trustees. The
remaining standing committees shall consist of three (3) Trustees appointed
upon motion by one (1) Trustee and approved by a majority vote of the Village
Board. A standing committee may also consist of ex officio members as
identified in this chapter. The Chairperson of each standing committee shall be
appointed by the members of the committee.
      2.   The President shall be a nonvoting ex officio member of all standing
committees of which the President is not an appointed member. The President
shall be the Chairman of the Committee of the Whole.
      3.   The members of the standing committees shall be appointed annually
at the second regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in May of each year for
a term of one (1) year. If no action is taken to replace any committee member,
each serving committee member shall retain said committee member position for
an additional one (1) year term.
      4.   The standing committees of the Village Board shall be:
         a.   Finance and Technology;
         b.   Public Works;
         c.   Legislative, License, and Ethics;
         d.   Public Safety; and
         e.   Committee of the Whole.
   L.   Special Committees: Special committees may be appointed for the
consideration of any particular matter. When the Board accepts the final report
of a special committee, the committee shall stand discharged without vote
unless otherwise ordered.
   M.   Committee Reports: All committees to which any matter has been referred
shall report, in writing, if any Trustee so requests. Any committee member may
present a minority report to the Board.
   N.   Petitions And Communications:
      1.   Requirements: All petitions or communications shall be addressed to
the President and Board of Trustees, be in writing, and filed by the Clerk.
      2.   Presentation: Any Trustee presenting a communication, petition,
ordinance, resolution or similar matter shall briefly state its nature before
presenting it.
   O.   Preservation Of Papers By Clerk: The Clerk shall preserve all committee
reports, ordinances, resolutions, petitions and communications, and similar
materials to be voted on.
   P.   Rules Of Order: In all cases not covered by these rules, the provisions
in the latest published edition of "Robert's Rules of Order Revised" shall
govern in all cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not
inconsistent with the statutes or laws of the State of Illinois.
   Q.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of procedure can be suspended by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of the President and Trustees voting jointly. (Ords. 92-17-
64, 95-11-35, 96-10-50, 05-12-31, 05-13-40, 10-12-22, 13-09-29, 14-06-14, 17-
15-56, 21-14-71)
1-6-6: ELECTION DISTRICTS:
   A.   For purposes of electing the Trustees of the Village, the boundaries of
the Village’s six (6) districts shall be as follows:
      1.   The district map, together with the description of district
boundaries, identified as the "Official District Map for the Village of Oak
Lawn," is hereby adopted as the official village map for trustee purposes.
Districts of the Village shall be properly identified by the word "District"
followed by the Arabic numeral corresponding to the District number assigned by
the redistricting ordinance.
      2.   A copy of the map showing generally the area and boundaries of each
district together with a supplement describing the boundaries using census
blocks as determined by the United States Census Bureau of each District is on
file in the Village Clerk's office. In general, the centerline of the
identified right-of-way in a redistricting ordinance shall be the boundary line
unless otherwise noted.
      3.   Territory annexed into the Village following the adoption of a
redistricting ordinance shall, upon annexation and without further action by
the President and Board of Trustees be made a part of the adjacent or
surrounding district, provided that whenever two or more districts surround or
are contiguous with the annexed territory, the President and Board of Trustees,
shall provide as part of the ordinance annexing the territory, what District or
Districts the territory shall be made a part of.
   B.   All streets or other geographic features referenced in subsection A of
this section are those that are so shown on the maps published by the United
States bureau of the census for the 2000 census.
   C.   Any part of the village that has not been described as included in one
of the districts set forth in subsection A of this section shall be included
within the district that:
      1.   Is contiguous to the part; and
      2.   Contains the least population of all districts contiguous to the
part according to the 2000 census.
   D.   If any part of the village is described in subsection A of this section
as being in more than one district, said part shall be included within the
district that:
      1.   Is one of the districts in which that part is described in
subsection A of this section;
      2.   Is contiguous to that part; and
      3.   Contains the least population according to the 2000 census.
   E.   If any part of the village:
      1.   Is described in subsection A of this section as being in one
district; and
      2.   Is entirely surrounded by another district;
the part shall be incorporated into the district that surrounds the part.
   F.   If any part of the village:
      1.   Is described in subsection A of this section as being in one
district; and
      2.   Is not contiguous to another part of that district;
the part shall be included with the contiguous district that contains the least
population according to the 2000 census. (Ord. 2002-17-68, 22-16-53)
CHAPTER 7
COMMITTEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Finance And Technology Committee
1-7-2: Traffic Safety Committee
1-7-3: Public Works Committee
1-7-4: Legislative, License, And Ethics Committee
1-7-5: Public Safety Committee
1-7-6: Committee Of The Whole
1-7-1: FINANCE AND TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Membership: A Finance and Technology Committee shall be appointed upon
motion by one (1) Trustee and approved by a majority of the Village Board. Said
Finance and Technology Committee shall consist of three (3) Trustees and the
committee shall appoint a Chairperson from among its members at the committee's
June meeting. The Village President, Village Treasurer, Village Manager, and IT
Director shall be ex officio members of the Finance and Technology Committee.
   B.   Meetings: The Finance and Technology Committee shall meet annually and
may hold special meetings as needed. Three (3) days' notice of the time and
place of regular and special meetings shall be given in writing by the
Secretary at the direction of the Chairman or upon the written request of not
less than two (2) members.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The power of the Finance and Technology Committee shall be to review
policies and recommend changes to the Board of Trustees. The committee shall
have the power to require Village department heads and employees to appear
before it and answer questions and assist the committee in its deliberations.
In addition, the committee shall review and advise the Board of Trustees in
relation to fiscal and technology policies of the Village, including the
following:
         a.   Review and advise the Board of Trustees regarding short and long
term investment policy of funds under their control or direction.
         b.   Examine and interpret the financial reporting system for the
Board of Trustees and recommend possible changes in it.
         c.   Review and interpret for the Board of Trustees the annual audit
as prepared by certified public accountants retained by the Village.
         d.   Advise the Board of Trustees in the selection of certified public
accountants to be used by the Village, and frequency of their change.
         e.   On behalf of the Board of Trustees, review the reports required
to be filed with the Village pursuant to the terms of subsection
9-5-12B of this Code and make recommendations thereon to the Board.
         f.   Participate with and make recommendations to the Board of
Trustees in the three (3) year reviews of each licensee pursuant to subsection
9-5-14A of this Code.
         g.   From time to time, prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees
plans for specific improvements to or amendments to title 9, chapter 5 of this
Code.
         h.   Study, review and advise the Village Board on utilizing
technology to make Village operations more efficient and resident friendly, and
to enhance communications with residents.
      2.   The Finance and Technology Committee, established pursuant to this
section shall exercise such powers and perform such functions in connection
therewith the BTN and title 9, chapter 5 of this Code as the Village Board
shall from time to time provide the following information including, but not
limited to:
         a.   The committee shall advise the Village Board with respect to all
aspects of the grantee's actions in connection with the BTN in the Village.
         b.   The committee shall review all aspects of the grantee's actions
in connection with the BTN.
         c.   The committee, if it deems it necessary and according to such
procedural rules as it may decide which afford the grantee and a subscriber a
fair hearing, may conduct hearings in review of grantee decisions and actions
with respect to section
9-5-10 of this Code. Decisions by the committee with respect to such hearings
shall be binding upon the grantee.
   D.   Relation With Other Agencies: The Finance and Technology Committee
shall not review matters under the control of the pension fund boards 1  or the
agencies having jurisdiction over Village related funds, but only those under
control or direction of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 17-15-56)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 7 and 8 of this Code.
1-7-2: TRAFFIC SAFETY COMMITTEE 2 :
   A.   Appointment And Membership:
      1.   There is hereby created and established a seven (7) member Traffic
Safety Committee, whereby the President shall appoint one (1) member and each
Village Trustee shall appoint one (1) member to the Committee from their
district. All appointments, except to vacancies, shall begin on September 1 of
the calendar year. Members of the Traffic Safety Committee serving as of the
effective date hereof shall serve until the end of the term to which appointed
and until their successors are named and qualified. Effective September 1,
2019, a full term shall be four (4) years and terms shall be staggered so not
more than three (3) expire each year. Such staggered terms shall coincide with
District 1, 3, and 5 appointees to expire opposite years of District 2, 4, and
6 appointees. For purposes of this Chapter, such appointments for District 2,
4, and 6 beginning on September 1, 2019, shall have initial term limit to end
in calendar year 2021 so as to initiate such staggered terms. If a vacancy
exists following the failure and/or refusal by a Village Trustee to appoint a
member by October 1 of the calendar year, an appointment shall be made by a
recommendation from the President with approval of the majority of the Village
Board.
         a.   The President and Board of Trustees may compel attendance of any
absent member and may remove any such member from said Committee if that member
misses three (3) consecutive meetings. The removal shall be initiated by the
President and subject to the confirmation of such removal by the advice and
consent of the Village Board.
         b.   Each member of the Committee shall receive a sum of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per meeting for every properly posted meeting attended, or
such prorated portion thereof as shall represent the time served in a given
calendar year, with a minimum annual renumeration of $500.00 per member if the
member attends 70% or more of all properly posted meetings. This remuneration
is intended to cover normal and necessary expenses of the member. Additional or
unusual expenses may be covered as budgeted upon receipt of proper evidence of
expenditure and approval by this Committee.
         c.   All appointments, except to vacancies, shall begin on September 1
the calendar year. Members of the Traffic Safety Committee shall serve as of
the effective date hereof and shall serve until the end of the term to which
appointed and until their successors are named and qualified.
      2.   A Chairman shall be selected by the committee from its membership.
      3.   Members of staff who shall sit with the committee and act as
advisors, but shall not have committee voting privileges, shall consist of at
least one (1) member from each of the following Village departments:
         Department of Community Development and Growth Management
         Police Department
         Public Works Department
   B.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: Meetings shall be held at every month on the 1st
Thursday of said month, except that the Board may, by rule, provide for
changing the date for seasonal reasons in the event there is no pending
business.
      2.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairman or
by any three (3) members of the Board.
      3.   Open To The Public: All meetings of the Architectural Review &
Preservation Commission and its committees shall be open meetings as required
under the applicable statutes of the State of Illinois and codes of the
Village.
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities: The Traffic Safety Committee shall review
and advise the Board of Trustees in relation to the traffic policies of the
Village, including the following:
      1.   Review and advise the Board of Trustees regarding short term and
long term traffic policies;
      2.   Review and make recommendations to the Board of Trustees on all
citizens' petitions for traffic control changes, including, but not limited to,
requests for speed reductions, stop signs and traffic control devices;
      3.   Review and make recommendations to the Board of Trustees on all
traffic studies prepared by consultants hired by the Village.
   D.   Powers: The power of the Traffic Safety Committee shall be to review
traffic policies and recommend changes to the Board of Trustees.
   E.   Procedure For Traffic Changes: The following procedures shall be
followed for all requests for traffic changes:
      Step 1: All requests for traffic control devices must be in writing,
regardless of their origin. Requests must be submitted to the Department of
Community Development and Growth Management no later than ten (10) days prior
to the next scheduled meeting, to assure placement on the agenda.
      Step 2: The Department of Community Development and Growth Management
will assign a number and send a response to the petitioner indicating that his
request will be discussed at the next meeting and he will be invited to attend.
No more than three (3) persons involved with the petition will be permitted to
speak to the subject.
      Step 3: The Department of Community Development and Growth Management
will send a copy of the request to each of the members of the Traffic Safety
Committee.
      Step 4: Upon receipt of copy of request, the area representative will
make immediate personal contact with petitioner to discuss the nature of the
request.
      Step 5: The request will be submitted to the Traffic Safety Committee as
an agenda item. The Traffic Safety Committee, petitioner, and staff will
informally discuss the request made and study the information presented in
order to arrive at a consensus of the members regarding the request.
      Step 6: Pursuant to the discussions which take place in step 5 of this
subsection, staff will propose their recommendations regarding the item.
      Step 7: The item will again be placed on the agenda of the committee,
accompanied by staff recommendations.
      Step 8: The staff and Traffic Safety Committee will make a joint
recommendation as to the disposition of the request.
      Step 9: Staff will prepare any sign drawings which may be necessary to
assist in the posting of the signs as recommended.
      Step 10: The request will be submitted to the Village President and Board
for action, accompanied by the following documents:
         1. The final report of the staff;
          2. The joint recommendation of the Traffic Safety Committee and
staff;
         3. Any sign drawing which may be necessary.
      Step 11: The Board of Trustees will either approve or deny the ordinance
as presented.
      Step 12: If the request is denied by the Board of Trustees, the matter
will be referred back to the Traffic Safety Committee to reevaluate its
recommendations. If the conclusions of the Traffic Safety Committee remain as
originally suggested, the item will be placed on file for later routine follow-
up on an ongoing basis. If the committee recommendation is amended or revised
from that which it originally made, the matter will return to step 5 of this
subsection and continue on from there. If the request is approved by the Board
of Trustees, the Village Attorney will be authorized to prepare the required
ordinance for adoption.
      Step 13: The Village Attorney will submit a copy of the proposed
ordinance to the Department of Community Development and Growth Management to
assure conformity with the approved request.
      Step 14: Upon approval by the Department of Community Development and
Growth Management, the Village Attorney will present the proposed ordinance to
the Board of Trustees for approval and adoption.
      Step 15: Immediately after passage of the ordinance, the Department of
Community Development and Growth Management shall issue a written order to the
Public Works Department for the installation of signs, as required by the
ordinance.
      Step 16: No sooner than ten (10) days after adoption of the ordinance,
the Public Works Department will post signs as required by the ordinance, and
drawings (if necessary) as approved by the Board of Trustees.
      Step 17: The Police Department will begin enforcement of the ordinance
immediately following the installation of signs.
   F.   Emergency Traffic Changes: Where a requested traffic change involves
serious imminent safety issues that cannot be addressed adequately through the
procedure for traffic changes as outlined in subsection E of this section, the
requested change may be heard directly by the Village Board without going
through the procedure for traffic changes as outlined in subsection E of this
section. (Ord. 84-5-10, 1985 Code, Ords. 92-02-12, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 01-09-31,
06-23-137, 19-16-67, 23-13-47)
 
Notes
2 2. See title 11, "Motor Vehicles And Traffic", of this Code.
1-7-3: PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE:
   A.   Appointment And Membership: A Public Works Committee shall be appointed
upon motion by one (1) Trustee and approved by a majority of the Village Board.
Said Public Works Committee shall consist of three (3) Trustees, and the
committee shall appoint a Chairperson from among its members at the committee's
June meeting. The Director of Public Works, Village President and Village
Engineer shall be ex officio members of the Public Works Committee.
   B.   Meetings: The Public Works Committee shall meet annually and may hold
special meetings as needed. Three (3) days' notice of the time and place of
regular and special meetings shall be given in writing by the Secretary at the
direction of the Chairman or upon the written request of not less than two (2)
members.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The power of the Public Works Committee shall be to review policies
and recommend changes to the Board of Trustees. In addition, the committee
shall have the power to require Village department heads and employees to
appear before it and answer questions and assist the committee in its
deliberations.
      2.   The Public Works Committee shall review and advise the Board of
Trustees in relation to public works and waterworks policies of the Village,
including the following:
         a.   Investigate and make studies of the Public Works Department and
its policies and make recommendations to the Board of Trustees relative
thereto.
         b.   Investigate and make studies of the waterworks system and make
recommendations to the Board of Trustees relative thereto.
         c.   Review and advise the Board of Trustees regarding short term and
long term maintenance and repair needs of streets, curbs, sidewalks,
streetlights, sewers, water mains and appurtenances and public buildings under
the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works of the Village.
         d.   Review and advise the Board of Trustees regarding short term and
long term maintenance and repair needs of water mains and appurtenances of the
complete waterworks system.
         e.   Review and advise the Board of Trustees regarding all contracts
for the sale of water by the Village to other communities and entities.
         f.   Periodically review and advise the Board of Trustees as to
personnel and equipment needs of the Public Works Department. (Ord. 17-15-56)
1-7-4: LEGISLATIVE, LICENSE, AND ETHICS COMMITTEE:
   A.   Appointment And Membership: The Legislative, License, and Ethics
Committee shall be appointed upon motion by one (1) Trustee and approved by a
majority of the Village Board. Said Legislative, License, and Ethics Committee
shall consist of three (3) Trustees, and the committee shall appoint a
Chairperson from among its members at its June meeting. The Village President
shall be an ex officio member of the Legislative, License, and Ethics
Committee.
   B.   Meetings: The Legislative, License, and Ethics Committee shall meet
annually and may hold special meetings as needed. Three (3) days notice of the
time and place of regular and special meetings shall be given in writing by the
Secretary at the direction of the Chairman or upon the written request of not
less than two (2) members.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The power of the Legislative, License, and Ethics Committee shall be
to review policies and recommend changes to the Board of Trustees. In addition,
the committee shall have the power to require Village officers, department
heads, and employees to appear before it and answer questions and assist the
committee in its deliberations.
      2.   The Legislative, License, and Ethics Committee shall review and
advise the Board of Trustees in relation to legal policies, ordinances amending
this Code, licenses and license fees, and the Village of Oak Lawn ethics
ordinance including the following:
         a.   Review and advise the Board of Trustees on Municipal Code
violations and the prosecution and administrative adjudication thereof.
         b.   Perform detailed work and prepare the text of suggested
ordinances.
         c.   Periodically review this Code and recommend amendments,
additions, and repeals of Code provisions to the Board of Trustees.
         d.   Periodically review the procedure for issuance of business
licenses in the Village and make recommendations to the Board of Trustees
relative thereto.
         e.   Review the number and types of licenses issued in the Village and
make recommendations thereon to the Board of Trustees.
         f.   Review ethics ordinances adopted by other municipalities and
Ethics Code suggestions brought forward by the citizens of the Village and make
recommendations to the Board of Trustees relative thereto. (Ord. 17-15-56)
1-7-5: PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Appointment And Membership: The Public Safety Committee shall be
appointed upon motion by one (1) Trustee and approved by a majority of the
Village Board. Said Public Safety Committee shall consist of three (3)
Trustees, and the committee shall appoint a Chairperson from among its members
at its June meeting. The Village President shall be an ex officio member of the
Public Safety Committee.
   B.   Meetings: The Public Safety Committee shall meet annually and may hold
special meetings as needed. Three (3) days' notice of the time and place of
regular and special meetings shall be given in writing by the Secretary at the
direction of the Chairman or upon the written request of not less than two (2)
members.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The power of the Public Safety Committee shall be to review policies
and recommend changes to the Board of Trustees. In addition, the committee
shall have the power to require Village department heads and employees to
appear before it and answer questions and assist the committee in its
deliberations.
      2.   The Public Safety Committee shall give advice to the Fire Chief and
Police Chief when asked.
      3.   The Public Safety Committee shall review and advise the Board of
Trustees in relation to public safety policies of the Village, including the
following:
         a.   Provide support to works of ongoing projects of the Police and
Fire Departments.
         b.   Provide guidance on police and fire activities in accordance with
the Village policy. (Ord. 17-15-56)
1-7-6: COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE:
   A.   Membership: The Committee of the Whole shall consist of the Village
President and all Trustees currently holding office. The Village President
shall be Chairperson of the Committee of the Whole, and the Village Treasurer,
Manager and Director of Administrative Services shall be ex officio members of
the committee.
   B.   Meetings: Committee of the Whole meetings shall be held on the second
Tuesday of each month at six fifteen o'clock (6:15) P.M. at the Oak Lawn
Village Hall immediately preceding the regular Village Board meeting if
requested by the Village President or three (3) or more Trustees. When such
meeting time shall fall on a legal holiday, then such meeting shall be held on
the same day as the rescheduled, regular Village Board meeting. Committee of
the Whole meetings shall end at the hour of seven fifteen o'clock (7:15) P.M.,
when practicable.
   C.   Purpose: The purpose of the Committee of the Whole meetings shall be
primarily for discussing and vetting items which will be brought before the
Village Board for eventual consideration and approval. Routine committee and
commission referrals need not be placed on the Committee of the Whole agenda
unless said referrals require a presentation and/or upon which discussion is
anticipated. In no event shall the Committee of the Whole vote on ordinances or
resolutions.
   D.   Agenda: The agenda shall be prepared by the Village Clerk and shall be
in the following form:
      1.   Roll call
      2.   Pledge of Allegiance
      3.   Items for discussion on the regular meeting agenda
      4.   Items for discussion on the next or future meeting agendas
      5.   Adjournment. (Ord. 17-15-56)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-8-1: Bond
1-8-2: Duties
1-8-3: Hold Office Of Collector
1-8-4: Deputy Village Clerk; Appointment And Powers
1-8-5: Compensation
1-8-1: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of the office of village clerk, the clerk shall
execute a bond with security payable to the village in the penal sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00), conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of the office according to law and the ordinances of the village. (1951
Code 1-3, 2-4; Ords. 67-1-3, 76-2-5)
1-8-2: DUTIES:
   A.   General: The village clerk shall, in addition to the duties now imposed
upon such officer by statute, perform the following duties:
      1.   The clerk shall keep an office for the transaction of village
business.
      2.   The clerk shall issue notices of meetings to the president and
members of the village board, and when directed by that body, to the members of
the different committees of that body and to all persons whose attendance will
be required before that body or any such committee when so directed. The clerk
shall also issue and cause to be served notices of said meetings. The clerk
shall also cause the notices to be sent, posted and published as required by
subsection
1-6-3D of this title.
      3.   The clerk shall attest all the licenses granted under the ordinances
of the village.
      4.   The clerk shall, without delay, deliver to the officers of the
village and to the various committees, all bills, resolutions, communications
and other documents referring to such officers and committees.
      5.   The clerk shall, without delay, deliver to the president all
ordinances or resolutions under the clerk's charge which may require approval
or other action by the president, with all papers and information on which the
same were founded.
      6.   The clerk shall perform such other duties as may be required by the
president and board of trustees and the ordinances of the village.
   B.   Corporate Seal And Records: The clerk shall keep the corporate seal and
affix the same to all papers which require it. The clerk shall keep all records
and papers belonging to the village and attend all meetings of the president
and board of trustees, and keep a full record of its proceedings in the
journal. The clerk shall make proper copies of all papers duly filed in such
office and make transcripts from the journal and other records and files of
such office, certified by the clerk under the corporate seal.
   C.   Record, Publish Ordinances: All ordinances passed by the president and
board of trustees shall be recorded by the clerk in a book kept for that
purpose before the next regular meeting after they go into effect.
If the ordinance requires publication, the clerk shall cause the same to be
duly published. The board of trustees may authorize the publication of said
ordinance in a newspaper published in the village or to be published in a book
or pamphlet form. The clerk shall note at the foot of the record of each
ordinance, a memorandum of the date of its passage and approval or otherwise
becoming effective, and if published, the date of the publication of such
ordinances. The original shall be filed in the office of said clerk with a
certificate of publication or posting attached to the ordinance requiring
publication.
   D.   Notify Elected And Appointed Officers: It shall be the duty of the
village clerk, within five (5) days after the result of an election is declared
or an appointment made, to notify all persons elected or appointed to office.
Unless such persons shall respectively qualify in ten (10) days after such
notice, the office shall become and be vacant.
   E.   File Tax Levy Ordinances: It shall be the duty of the village clerk, on
or before the second Tuesday in September in each year, to file with the county
clerk of Cook County, Illinois, a certified copy of the levy ordinance in which
the total amount of appropriations for all corporate purposes of the village
legally made are levied and assessed for the current fiscal year.
   F.   Receive, Pass On Communications: All petitions, remonstrances, bids,
bills or other communications addressed to the village or board of trustees
shall be received by the clerk and read by the clerk at the board meeting next
succeeding their receipt, unless otherwise ordered by the village board.
   G.   Publication Of Legal Notices: The village clerk or a designated
representative shall be responsible for coordinating and publishing all legal
notices and designating the newspaper in which such notices are to be
published. All boards, commissions, committees and bureaus of the village shall
send all legal notices to the village clerk's office for publication,
designating the date or dates on which it is to be published. Upon request, the
village clerk shall supply any such board, commission, committee or bureau with
a publisher's certificate showing the date or dates on which any such notice
was published. (1951 Code 1-3, 2-4; Ords. 67-1-3, 76-2-5, 83-20-49)
1-8-3: HOLD OFFICE OF COLLECTOR:
Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-8-3, the village clerk shall hold
the office of village collector. No additional compensation shall be paid to
the village clerk for the fulfillment of such duties. (1985 Code, Ord. 24-18-
67)
1-8-4: DEPUTY VILLAGE CLERK; APPOINTMENT AND POWERS:
   A.   The village clerk may appoint one deputy village clerk, which deputy
village clerk shall have the power and duty to execute all documents required
by law or ordinance to be executed by the village clerk and to affix the seal
of the village thereto, whenever required.
   B.   The appointment of the deputy village clerk shall be made by the
village clerk and the deputy village clerk shall serve at the pleasure of and
perform such duties as directed by the village clerk.
   C.   In signing any document as described in subsection A of this section,
the deputy village clerk shall sign the name of the clerk followed with the
word "by" and the deputy village clerk's own name, and the words "deputy
village clerk".
   D.   Such duties shall be exercised at the direction of the village clerk,
or when the president and board of trustees have determined by resolution that
the village clerk is temporarily or permanently incapacitated and unable to
perform such functions.
   E.   The deputy clerk shall receive such compensation as determined by the
village clerk, in consultation with the Village Manager, and shall be eligible
to participate in all employee benefit plans, on the same terms as other non-
union village employees. (Ords. 93-11-40, 24-18-67)
1-8-5: COMPENSATION:
   A.   The Village Clerk currently receives such compensation as reflected in
the most recent pay and benefit ordinance.
   B.   Beginning June 1, 2025, for village clerks whose terms commence in May,
2025, after the consolidated election in April of 2025, the use of pay and
benefit ordinances to set salaries will be discontinued, and, instead, the
village clerk shall receive a salary of $5,000 per month, payable in accordance
with the village’s regular bi-weekly payroll schedule. Further, beginning June
1, 2026, and on each June 1st thereafter for as long as the individual remains
in office, incumbent village clerks shall receive an increase in the
compensation then in effect equal to the percent change in the Chicago Area
Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers (CPI-U) as calculated and
published by the federal government for the period beginning May of the
previous year and ending April of the current year, rounded to the next highest
dollar amount as appropriate for purposes of resulting in an even dollar amount
for payroll purposes. Thereafter, a newly elected non-incumbent village clerk’s
compensation shall begin at a rate of $5,000 per month, payable in accordance
with the village’s regular bi-weekly payroll schedule, and after twelve months
will be increased annually on June 1st of each year thereafter, as indicated
above based on the applicable CPI-U, for as long as the individual remains in
office.
   C.   In addition, as a part of compensation, the village clerk is currently
eligible, and will remain eligible, to participate in the following village
group employee benefit plans, on the same basis and terms that are applicable
to non-union employees: group health insurance, health insurance buy-out,
dental and vision insurance, life insurance, and flexible benefit plan. In
addition, the village clerk is currently eligible, and will remain eligible, to
participate in other voluntary benefit plans, such as accident, critical
illness, hospital, and legal, with costs to be fully paid by the participants.
   D.   The village clerk is currently eligible to participate in the Illinois
Municipal Retirement Fund (IMRF).
   E.   No other compensation shall be allowed to the village clerk. (Ord. 24-
18-67)
CHAPTER 9
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES 1
SECTION:
1-9-1: Administrative Organizational Plan
1-9-2: Election Of Officers
1-9-3: Oath Required
1-9-4: Bond Requirements
1-9-5: Failure To Give Bond
1-9-6: Payment Of Salaries
1-9-7: Duties
1-9-8: Records Open For Inspection, Reports
1-9-9: Office Hours
1-9-10: Benefits
 
Notes
1 1. A personnel policy manual is adopted as the policy of the village, a copy
  of which is on file with the village.
1-9-1: ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATIONAL PLAN:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be known as the ADMINISTRATIVE
REORGANIZATION ORDINANCE.
   B.   Administrative Officers Appointed: The village manager, as the
administrative head of the village, shall appoint people to five (5) positions
to be entitled directors, a fire chief and a police chief, who shall serve
until such time as they may resign or be replaced by the village manager, to be
given the following titles, which are hereby created:
      Director of administrative services
      Director of quality control
      Director of public works
      Fire chief
      Police chief
The village manager is authorized to appoint, suspend or discharge the
aforementioned three (3) directors, the police chief and the fire chief without
the consent of the board of trustees.
C.   Supervisory Duties; Assistants And Deputies Designated: The three (3)
directors shall each direct, coordinate and supervise two (2) or more specific
areas of service in the village, which positions shall be headed by persons
known as assistant directors or as otherwise entitled herein. The fire chief
shall supervise and direct one (1) deputy fire chief. The police chief shall
appoint, supervise, and direct one deputy police chief. All of these positions
shall be filled by an appointment by the village manager and shall serve until
such time as they resign or are replaced by the village manager, with the
exception of the deputy police chief, which shall be filled by an appointment
by the chief of police and shall serve until such time as he or she resigns or
is replaced by the chief of police.
      1.   The director of administrative services shall have under his direct
supervision the following:
         Assistant director for administration and personnel
         Assistant director for data processing
         Comptroller
      2.   The director of quality control shall have under his direct
supervision the following:
         Assistant director for code compliance
         Assistant director for quality control
      3.   The director of public works shall have under his direct supervision
the following:
         Assistant director for equipment maintenance
         Assistant director for streets and sewers
         Water Division Manager
         a.   The Water Division Manager shall have under his direct
supervision an Assistant Water Division Manager who shall be appointed by the
Village Manager.
   D.   When Office To Become Operational: All positions named in this section
shall become operational upon the appointment by the village manager of persons
to fill the named positions, subject to the guidelines of this section.
   E.   Effect Of Plan On Present Employees: It shall be the policy of the
village to retain persons presently in the employ of the village to fill
similar positions under the “administrative reorganization ordinance”. No
present employee shall be separated as a direct result of implementation of
this plan.
   F.   Reclassification, Wage Rate: When reclassification of a position shall
result in a reduction in grade, the employee so affected shall continue to be
paid at the same rate as the higher grade upon assumption of the new position,
but will receive no increases in salary until the pay set for the employee’s
new position classification reaches the level of this current salary.
Thereafter, said employee shall receive all pay increases due him pursuant to
the ordinances, rules and regulations of the village.
   G.   Implementation Of Plan: The positions created under this section shall
be implemented by enactment of an ordinance that will amend the position, pay
and benefits ordinance of the village by setting forth the new position classes
and grades and concurrently abolishing classes and grades being replaced.
   H.   Police And Fire Department Personnel: Until further implementation of
this section, the village manager shall have the authority to appoint, suspend
or discharge the chief of police, the fire chief, and the deputy fire chief
without the consent of the board of trustees. The chief of police, the fire
chief, and the deputy fire chief need not be appointed from the members of the
police or fire departments. The power of appointment or disciplinary action of
all other officers of the police and fire departments, except the police
department's code enforcement officer, shall rest in the board of fire and
police commissioners of the village 1 , heretofore created and now acting
pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois municipal code. The chief of police
shall have the power to appoint, suspend or discharge the code enforcement
officer for the police department. In the event the village manager discharges
the chief of police, fire chief, or the deputy fire chief prior to being
eligible to retire on pension, they shall be considered as on furlough from the
rank they held with the Village immediately prior to their appointment as chief
of police, fire chief, or deputy fire chief, if any, not including positions
previously appointed by the Village Manager. If the chief of police, fire
chief, or deputy fire chief resigns from or is discharged from their appointed
position prior to attaining eligibility to retire on pension, they shall revert
to and be established in such prior rank, if any, not including positions
previously appointed by the Village Manager, and thereafter be entitled to all
the benefits and emoluments of such prior rank, without regard as to whether a
vacancy then exists in such rank, as established under the fire and police
commission act. 2  
(Ords. 76-7-10, 81-12-19; 1985 Code; Ords. 89-13-30, 91-23-98, 92-02-10, 93-5-
13, 10-12-23, 19-15-51, 25-11-25)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 6 of this code.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.
1-9-2: ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Procedure For Election: Elections for municipal offices shall be held
in accordance with and at the time prescribed by statute and this code.
   B.   Village President, Village Clerk And Village Trustees:
      1.   The election for the officers of the village, to include the village
president, village clerk and three (3) village trustees shall be for a four (4)
year term and shall be held on the third Tuesday in April of every other odd
numbered year commencing April 15, 1969.
      2.   The election of three (3) village trustees for a four (4) year term
shall be held on the third Tuesday of April of the odd numbered year commencing
April 20, 1971.
      3.   Effective for any person elected to the office of village president,
village clerk, or village trustee at the April 9, 2015, consolidated election
and all those elected to such offices thereafter:
         a.   No person shall serve as village president for more than three
(3) consecutive four (4) year terms.
         b.   No person shall serve as village clerk for more than three (3)
consecutive four (4) year terms.
         c.   No person shall serve as village trustee for more than three (3)
consecutive four (4) year terms.
   C.   Library Trustees: The election of two (2) library trustees of the Oak
Lawn public library district for a six (6) year term shall be held on the third
Tuesday of April of every odd numbered year commencing April 15, 1969.
   D.   Vacancies In Office: In the event that any of the aforementioned
offices shall become vacant due to death, resignation, disqualification, or
other cause prior to ten (10) days before the last day for filing nominating
petitions for the next general election, then said office shall be filled for
the unexpired term at the next general election of the village.
   E.   Inauguration Date: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-
15, the inauguration date for the elected officers of the village (village
president, 6 trustees and village clerk) is hereby established as the first
regular village board meeting in May following the election. (1951 Code 2-8-7;
Ords. 68(8), 04-19-94, 15-05-19)
1-9-3: OATH REQUIRED:
All officers of the village, whether elected or appointed, shall before
entering upon the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe the
following oath or affirmation:
I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be), that I will support the
Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
                      of the Village of Oak Lawn, according to the best of my
ability.
This oath, so subscribed, shall be filed in the office of the clerk, except
that the oaths of firemen and policemen shall be filed with the board of police
and fire commissioners. (1951 Code 2-1-3)
1-9-4: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General: The officers of the village shall give bonds in the sums and
within the times prescribed by the board of trustees. Said bonds shall be as
provided by law. Should good cause exist in the judgment and discretion of the
board of trustees, any officer may be required, from time to time, to give
additional bonds in such sums and within such time as the board may by
resolution direct.
   B.   Conditions Of Bonds, Sureties 1 : The bond of each officer shall be
executed to the village with two (2) or more sureties conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties of his office, and the payment to the proper
officer of all monies coming into his hands by virtue of his office. Each of
said sureties shall be freeholders of Cook County, and shall schedule real
estate therein, clear of all encumbrances and other legal obligations, in value
not less than the penal sum of said bond, which schedule shall be made
separately by said sureties and sworn to before some officer authorized to
administer oaths, and attached to said bond. Provided, that any officer of the
village may procure as surety upon any bond he may be required to give, any
responsible surety company or corporation; and provided, further, that no
member of the board of trustees shall sign any bond in any case wherein the
village is interested.
   C.   Approval, Filing Of Bonds: The bonds of all village officers shall be
subject to the approval of the president and board of trustees. After the
approval as aforesaid, the clerk shall endorse thereon the date thereof and
file the same in his office except the bond of the clerk, which shall be filed
with the treasurer.
   D.   Required Bond Amounts: Bonds shall be required for all village
officers, and certain specified employees, in the following amounts:
      1.   Village president: No bond required as per 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/5-3-8.
      2.   Trustees: No bond required as per 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-
3-8.
      3.   Village clerk: See section
1-8-1 of this title.
      4.   Village manager: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      5.   Village treasurer: See section
1-9C-2 of this chapter.
      6.   Village collector: See section
1-9E-2 of this chapter.
      7.   Village department heads: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) each.
      8.   Cashiers in the finance department: Five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) each.
      9.   All other village officers: One dollar ($1.00) each. (1951 Code
2-1-4,
2-1-5,
2-1-6; Ord. 94-12-53)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-11-8 of this title.
1-9-5: FAILURE TO GIVE BOND:
If any person elected or appointed to any office of the village shall fail to
qualify by taking, subscribing and filing his official bond as herein provided,
within ten (10) days after he is officially notified of his election or
appointment, the office shall become vacant. (1951 Code
2-1-7)
1-9-6: PAYMENT OF SALARIES:
Unless otherwise specified in this code, the salary and pay of all officers and
employees shall be paid semimonthly to each person entitled thereto. (1951 Code
2-1-8)
1-9-7: DUTIES:
   A.   General: Each officer, besides the specific duties which may be
required of him by virtue of his office, shall also perform such other and
further duties, and be subject to such rules and regulations, as the manager or
president and board of trustees may, from time to time, require.
   B.   Deliver Effects To Successor: Any person being an officer or employee
of the village, whose term has expired or who has resigned or has been removed
from office, shall, within ten (10) days after notification and request,
deliver to his successor in office all property, books and effects of every
description in his possession belonging to the village or pertaining to his
office. (1951 Code
2-1-9, 2-1-10)
1-9-8: RECORDS OPEN FOR INSPECTION, REPORTS:
All books, papers, vouchers, warrants, entries, accounts and memoranda of each
and every officer and employee of the village may be examined at any time by
the manager or the president, and the president and board of trustees may, by
resolution, call upon any officer to make a report in writing of any subject
matter which said board may designate in such resolution and within such time
as said resolution may prescribe. (1951 Code 2-1-11)
1-9-9: OFFICE HOURS:
The offices of village officers shall be open for business at such hours as
shall be prescribed by resolution by the village board. (1951 Code 2-1-12)
1-9-10: BENEFITS:
   A.   Village Benefit Plans: Village employees and certain village officers
will be eligible to participate in employee benefit plans, as described in this
code and in the Oak Lawn Benefit Handbook, as amended from time to time.
   B.   Benefits Not Guaranteed And Subject To Change: The benefits provided in
this section are not guaranteed and are subject to change at any time in the
sole discretion of the Village in accordance with all applicable law.
   C.   Paid Leave; Minimum Wage:
      1.   Employees of the Village of Oak Lawn: Pursuant to Village of Oak
Lawn Ordinance No. 23-21-78 and Ordinance No. 24-01-04, such Ordinances govern
and supersede all provisions of the Illinois Paid Leave for All Workers Act and
Cook County Ordinance No. 24-0583 relative to the employment relationship
between the Village of Oak Lawn and its employees. No additional obligations
with regard to mandatory paid leave, including without limitation, any
obligations adopted under the Paid Leave for All Workers Act by the State of
Illinois and/or obligations adopted under the Cook County Ordinance No. 24-0583
by the County of Cook, shall apply to the Village in its capacity as an
employer, except those required by Federal or State of Illinois laws and
regulations preempting the Village’s home rule authority.
      2.   Other Employers within the Village of Oak Lawn: For the purposes of
this subsection, the term “employee” means an individual permitted and/or hired
to work by an employer regardless of the number of persons the employer
employs, or the number of hours worked, and the term “employer” means any
person, firm or corporation employing one (1) or more employees, or seeking to
employ one (1) or more employees, if the employer has its principal place of
business within the Village of Oak Lawn, or does business within the Village of
Oak Lawn.
   For the purposes of this subsection, the term “employer” does not mean:
         a.   The government of the United States or a corporation wholly owned
by the government of the United States;
         b.   An Indian tribe or a corporation wholly owned by an Indian tribe;
         c.   The government of the State or any agency or department thereof;
or
         d.   The government of any municipality.
   Employers located within the Village of Oak Lawn shall comply with all
Federal and State employment laws and guidelines with regard to paid leave,
including paid sick leave, and the payment of minimum wage. Employee
eligibility for paid leave, including paid sick leave, and payment of minimum
wage shall be pursuant to all Federal and State employment laws and guidelines.
   No additional obligations with regard to paid leave, including paid sick
leave, or payment of minimum wage, including, without limitation, any
additional obligations adopted by the County of Cook Board of Commissioners,
shall apply to employers located within the Village of Oak Lawn, including
units of local government, generally, and public school districts and park
districts, specifically, and the Village opts out of any such regulations or
requirements, except those required by Federal and State law or the Village of
Oak Lawn.
   Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to affect the validity or change
the terms of any collective bargaining agreement in effect on January 1, 2024.
   Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to prohibit or discourage any
employer from providing leave or benefits greater or more generous than what is
required under this subsection or state or Federal law. Employers shall remain
ultimately responsible for determining whether or not to provide paid leave,
and how much paid leave to provide to their employees, as long as the minimum
amount of paid leave required by this subsection is provided. The Village shall
not be responsible for any claims based on or relating to alleged non-
compliance with the Paid Leave for All Workers Act, any Cook County Ordinance,
or any regulations thereunder. (Ords. 11-22-54, 17-10-21, 24-02-07, 24-18-67)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE MANAGER
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Village Manager; Appointment
1-9A-2: Term Of Office; Removal
1-9A-3: Qualifications (Rep. by Ord. 05-22-84)
1-9A-4: Powers And Duties
1-9A-5: Salary
1-9A-6: Acting Manager
1-9A-7: Emergency Interim Village Manager
1-9A-1: VILLAGE MANAGER; APPOINTMENT:
There shall be and is hereby established the office of village manager who
shall be appointed by the village president and board of trustees. The village
manager shall be appointed without regard to his political beliefs and need not
be a resident of the village, but shall reside at a residence within a ten (10)
mile radius of the village, as measured from the village hall, within one year
of his/her appointment. (Ord. 94-5-21)
1-9A-2: TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL:
The village manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term and may be
removed at any time by a majority vote of the president and board of trustees.
(Ords. 48, 420)
1-9A-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 05-22-84)
1-9A-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The village manager shall be the administrative head of the government
of the village, and shall be responsible for the efficient administration of
all departments of the village.
   B.   The powers and duties of the village manager shall be:
      1.   To enforce the laws and ordinances within the village.
      2.   To appoint the following officers:
         a.   The chief of the police department;
         b.   The chief of the fire department;
         c.   The village attorney;
      and to appoint and remove or suspend all department heads. The village
manager is authorized to appoint, suspend or discharge the chief of the police
department and the chief of the fire department without consent of the board of
trustees.
      3.   To exercise control of all departments and divisions created by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-3-5(3), by any ordinances of the village, and by
this article and amendments thereto.
      4.   To attend all meetings of the board of trustees with the right to
take part in the discussion but with no right to vote.
      5.   To recommend to the board of trustees for adoption, such measures as
he may deem necessary or expedient.
      6.   To see that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the village
or its inhabitants in any contract or public utility franchise are faithfully
kept and performed.
      7.   To make, in the ordinary course of business, all purchases of
materials, supplies, and services necessary for the village as provided for in
the annual appropriation ordinance; provided, that on purchases of more than
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), he shall first procure the approval of
the village board before making such purchases and in all cases he shall comply
with the statutory provisions as to solicitation of bids.
      8.   To have and exercise the power, authority and duties of any director
of a department or division thereof during the time when the office of any such
director shall be vacant or no person shall have been appointed thereto.
      9.   To act as agent for the local liquor control commissioner or the
Liquor and Tobacco Licensing and Review Board in all matters pertaining to the
administration of the licensing and control of the sale of alcoholic liquors
within the village, and the administration of the statutes of the state, and
the ordinances of the village pertaining thereto1.
      10.   To issue all licenses and permits not otherwise provided for by
this code or the statutes of the state.
      11.   To appoint, remove or suspend all electrical and plumbing
inspectors of the village.
(Ords. 14-34-75, 19-16-63, 25-12-38)
1-9A-5: SALARY:
The manager shall receive the salary prescribed by the president and board of
trustees, payable semimonthly. (Ord. 545)
1-9A-6: ACTING MANAGER:
In case of the absence or disability of the manager, the president and board of
trustees may designate a qualified administrative officer of the village to
perform the duties of the manager during such absence or disability. (Ords. 48,
420)
1-9A-7: EMERGENCY INTERIM VILLAGE MANAGER:
The village manager shall designate in writing and file with the village clerk
and village president at least three (3) and no more than seven (7) emergency
interim successor village managers pursuant to the emergency interim executive
succession act 1  to act in the event of the unavailability of the village
manager during an emergency. As provided by the act, the following terms shall
have the meanings hereinafter ascribed to them:
ATTACK: An attack or series of attacks by an enemy of the United States
causing, or which may cause, substantial damage or injury to civilian property
or persons in the United States in any manner by sabotage or by the use of
bombs, missiles, shellfire, or atomic, radiological, chemical, bacteriological
or biological means or other weapons or processes.
DISASTER: A situation determined by the governor to be an occurrence or threat
of catastrophic and widespread injury or loss of life or property resulting
from any natural or manmade cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood,
earthquake, epidemic and explosion.
EMERGENCY: An attack or a disaster.
EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSOR: A person designated pursuant to this article in
the event the village manager is unavailable to exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of village manager until a successor is appointed or
elected and qualified as may be provided by the constitution, statutes,
charters and ordinances or until the lawful incumbent is able to resume the
exercise of the powers and discharge the duties of the office.
UNAVAILABLE: Means either that a vacancy in the office of village manager
exists and there is no deputy authorized to exercise all of the powers and
discharge the duties of the office or that the lawful incumbent of the office
(including any deputy exercising the powers and discharging the duties of an
office because of a vacancy) and his duly authorized deputy are absent or
unable to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office. (Ord. 09-
13-28)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 275/1 et seq.
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-9B-1: Office Established
1-9B-2: Bond (Rep. by Ord. 94-12-53)
1-9B-3: Powers and Duties
1-9B-4: Compensation
1-9B-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED:
There shall be and is hereby established the office of Village Attorney. (Ord.
71-19-45)
1-9B-2: BOND:
(Rep. by Ord. 94-12-53)
1-9B-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General: The Village Attorney shall conduct all the law business of the
Village and draw such ordinances, deeds, leases and other papers as may be
required of him by the President and Board of Trustees, or any committee
thereof or the Village Manager.
   B.   Legal Opinions: The Village Attorney shall give his opinion, in
writing, to the Board of Trustees or any committee thereof or the President or
the Village Manager, when requested, on legal questions arising under or
concerning any ordinance of the Village, and on questions and subjects in which
the Village shall be legally interested.
   C.   Surrender Effects of Office: Upon the expiration of his term of office,
the Village Attorney shall forthwith turn over to his successor in office all
dockets, deeds, leases or other papers in his hands belonging to the Village or
delivered to him by the Village or any of its officers and all papers in
actions prosecuted or defended by him then pending and undetermined. (1951 Code
2-2-2, 2-2-3, 2-2-4)
1-9B-4: COMPENSATION:
The Village Attorney shall be paid a monthly retainer for his general counsel
and advice in such an amount as may be agreed upon or directed by the President
and Board of Trustees. For litigation and special assessment or special
taxation he shall charge such reasonable fee as shall be agreed upon by the
President and Board of Trustees. For other services not covered in this
Section, he shall charge on a quantum meruit basis, in the absence of any
specific agreement with the Village Board. (1951 Code 2-2-5)
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-9C-1: Appointment
1-9C-2: Bond and Salary
1-9C-3: Duties
1-9C-4: Deputy Treasurer
1-9C-1: APPOINTMENT:
The Village Treasurer shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 93-10-34)
1-9C-2: BOND AND SALARY:
   A.   Bond: The Village Treasurer, before entering upon the duties of his
office, shall execute to the Village a bond conditioned for the faithful
discharge of his duties with sureties to be approved by the President and Board
of Trustees in a sum not less than three (3) times the latest Federal census
population or any subsequent census figures used for motor fuel tax purposes by
the Village.
   B.   Salary: The compensation of the Village Treasurer shall be $4,800
annually, payable through the village’s regular payroll in twenty-six (26)
equal installments. The Treasurer is not eligible to participate in the
Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund (IMRF) or in any village benefit plan. (1951
Code 2-3-1, 2-3-5; Ords. 72-1-1, 24-18-67)
1-9C-3: DUTIES:
   A.   General: The Treasurer, through the office of the Department of
Administrative Services, shall receive all monies belonging to the Village and
shall render at the end of each and every month, and oftener if required, a
statement under oath to the Board of Trustees, showing the state of Treasury at
the date of such account and the balance of the money in the Treasury. Said
statement shall set forth all the monies received by him, from whom, and on
what account they shall have been received; also all monies paid out by him,
and on what account they shall have been paid, and shall perform such other
duties as are set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-35-40 to 5/3.1-
35-85.
   B.   Books Required, Open for Inspection: The Treasurer shall cause to be
kept books of account, in such manner as to accurately show all monies received
by him, from whom, and on what account they shall have been paid. Said books
shall be kept in such manner as to be readily understood and investigated;
which books and all papers and files of said office shall at all times be open
to the examination of the Manager and the President and Board of Trustees or
any member thereof.
   C.   Accounting: The Village Treasurer shall keep by double entry, a full
detailed account of all Village funds, general tax receipts and receipts from
other sources, also a bond account, sinking fund account and forfeit account in
the Village ledger. He shall keep a "special fund" ledger in which all special
funds shall be kept separately by numbers and names of the special funds,
showing the total amount of each fund and installment of same to be collected
and each account to show the total collections and disbursements on account of
same. He shall also keep an auxiliary account with the Village Clerk-Collector
and the County Collector, showing all moneys received and disbursed by the
Village Treasurer.
   D.   Annual Account: The Village Treasurer is specifically charged with the
duty to prepare, publish and file the annual account, in accordance with the
provisions of sections 3-10-5.1 to 3-10-5.4 of chapter 24 of the Illinois
Revised Statutes and with the preparation and filing of the annual audit as
provided for in article 8, division 8 of said chapter 24. (1951 Code 2-3-2, 2-
3-3, 2-3-4, 2-3-5; 1985 Code)
1-9C-4: DEPUTY TREASURER:
The Treasurer is hereby authorized to designate the Director of Administrative
Services to serve as Deputy Treasurer. Said Deputy Treasurer shall have all the
powers and authority granted by State statute or this Village Code to the
Treasurer. Said designation shall be made by way of letter, addressed to the
President and Board of Trustees, with copies to the Village Manager and the
Director of Administrative Services. (Ord. 91-10-45)
ARTICLE D. BUDGET OFFICER
SECTION:
1-9D-1: Office Established, Appointment, Compensation
1-9D-2: Powers and Duties
1-9D-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED, APPOINTMENT, COMPENSATION:
There is hereby established the office of Budget Officer in the Village who
shall be appointed by the Village Manager and shall serve for an indefinite
term. The Budget Officer shall be compensated for his services as shall be
established by ordinance of the Village. (Ord. 68-(8)-8-29)
1-9D-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Budget Officer shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Permit and encourage the use of efficient planning, budgeting,
auditing, reporting, accounting and other fiscal management procedures.
   B.   Compile an annual budget in accordance with section 8-2-9.3 of chapter
24 of the Illinois Revised Statutes, and any amendments thereto 1 .
   C.   Examine all books and records of all Municipal departments, commissions
and boards which relate to monies received by the Municipality, Municipal
departments, commissions and boards, and paid out by the Municipality,
Municipal departments, commissions and boards, debts and accounts receivable
and amounts owed by or to the Municipality, Municipal departments, commissions
and boards.
   D.   Obtain such additional information from the Municipality, Municipal
departments, commissions and boards as may be useful to the Budget Officer for
purposes of compiling a Municipal budget, such information to be furnished by
the Municipality, Municipal departments, commissions and boards in the form
required by the Budget Officer. Any department, commission or board which
refuses to make such information as is requested of it available to the Budget
Officer shall not be permitted to make expenditures under any subsequent budget
for the Municipality until such Municipal department, commission or board shall
comply in full with the request of the Budget Officer.
   E.   Establish and maintain such procedures as shall insure that no
expenditures are made by the Municipality, Municipal departments, commissions
or boards except as authorized by the budget. (Ord. 68-(8)-8-29)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-11-1 of this Municipal Code.
ARTICLE E. VILLAGE COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-9E-1: Creation of Office, Appointment
1-9E-2: Bond Requirements
1-9E-3: Powers and Duties
1-9E-4: Salary
1-9E-1: CREATION OF OFFICE, APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Village Collector which shall be an
appointed office. Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-30-15, the
Village Clerk shall hold the office of the Village Collector. (1985 Code)
1-9E-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Before entering upon the duties of the office of Village Collector, the
Collector shall execute a bond with security payable to the Village in the
penal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of the office according to law and the ordinances of
the Village. Notwithstanding the foregoing, where the Village Clerk serves as
Village Collector, and the Clerk has been bonded pursuant to Section
1-8-1 of this Code, no additional bond shall be required under this Section
provided the Clerk's bond also references the Clerk's duties as Collector.
(1985 Code; Ord. 94-12-53)
1-9E-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Village Collector shall have those duties and powers as set forth in the
Illinois Municipal Code 1 . (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-120 et seq.
1-9E-4: SALARY:
The Village Collector shall serve without salary. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE F. VILLAGE PROSECUTOR
SECTION:
1-9F-1: Office Established, Appointment
1-9F-2: Bond (Rep. by Ord. 94-12-53)
1-9F-3: Powers and Duties
1-9F-4: Compensation
1-9F-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED, APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby established the office of Village Prosecutor, which officer
shall be appointed by the Village Manager pursuant to the Village Manager's
power to appoint the Village Attorney. (1985 Code)
1-9F-2: BOND:
(Rep. by Ord. 94-12-53)
1-9F-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Village Prosecutor shall prosecute those traffic and ordinance violations
within the Village for which complaints have been written on tickets, unless,
by law, the State's Attorney is the only one authorized to prosecute a
particular violation. (1985 Code)
1-9F-4: COMPENSATION:
The Village Prosecutor shall be paid monthly for prosecution work. He shall
charge such reasonable fee as shall be agreed upon by the President and Board
of Trustees. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE G. OTHER ATTORNEYS
SECTION:
1-9G-1: Selection of Attorneys
1-9G-2: Annual Evaluation
1-9G-1: SELECTION OF ATTORNEYS:
All attorneys used by the Village, including all attorneys used by the various
boards and commissions of the Village, other than the Village Attorney and
Village Prosecutor, shall be appointed by the President and Board of Trustees
and shall serve until such time as they may resign or be removed or replaced by
the President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 87-13-53)
1-9G-2: ANNUAL EVALUATION:
All attorneys subject to appointment pursuant to Section
1-9G-1 above shall be evaluated annually by the President and Board of Trustees
at the first Village Board meeting in July of each year. (Ord. 92-11-46)
ARTICLE H. ASSISTANT VILLAGE MANAGER
SECTION:
1-9H-1: Office Created; Appointment; Term
1-9H-2: Office; Devotion To Duty
1-9H-3: Duties And Powers
1-9H-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; TERM:
There is hereby created the office of the Assistant Village Manager. The
Assistant Village Manager shall be appointed by the Village Manager for a term
to be specified in a contract. The Assistant Village Manager shall be appointed
without regard to any political beliefs. (Ord. 20-15-44)
1-9H-2: OFFICE; DEVOTION TO DUTY:
The Assistant Village Manager shall maintain an office in the village hall and
shall spend his full time in the performance of his duties as may be required
by the Village Manager and the Board of Trustee. (Ord. 20-15-44)
1-9H-3: DUTIES AND POWERS:
The Assistant Village Manager shall be the chief assistant administrative
officer of the village. The Assistant Village Administrator may head one or
more departments as directed by the Village Manager and shall be responsible to
the Village Manager and the Board of Trustees for the proper administration of
all affairs of the village assigned to be performed by the Assistant Village
Manager. (Ord. 20-15-44)
CHAPTER 10
DEPARTMENTAL REORGANIZATION
SECTION:
1-10-1: Departmental Organization
1-10-1: DEPARTMENTAL ORGANIZATION:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this code, there are
hereby created and established the following departments and departmental
divisions in the village:
   A.   Department of public works:
      Facilities maintenance division
      Fleet maintenance division
      Forestry division
      Grounds maintenance division
      Sewer division
      Special events division
      Street division
      Water division
   B.   Department of community development and growth management:
      Building, planning and zoning division
      Engineering and transportation division
      Property maintenance, health and environmental services division
   C.   Department of community services:
      Family services division
      Senior services division
(Ord. 13-14-50)
CHAPTER 11
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-11-1: Annual Budget
1-11-2: Village Depositories
1-11-3: Investments
1-11-4: Authority To Borrow Money
1-11-5: Contracts And Purchases
1-11-5-1: Responsible Bidder Requirements
1-11-6: Funds
1-11-6-1: Public Benefit Tax And Fund
1-11-6-2: Capital Reserve Fund
1-11-6-3: Unclaimed Rebate Fund
1-11-7: Wage Rates For Public Works Employees
1-11-8: Surety Requirements On Bonds
1-11-9: Warrants
1-11-10: Quarterly Budget Status Report
1-11-1: ANNUAL BUDGET 1 :
   A.   Preparation And Contents: The Municipal Budget Officer shall compile a
budget, such budget to contain estimates of revenues available to the
Municipality for the fiscal year for which this budget is drafted, together
with recommended expenditures for the Municipality and all of the
Municipality's departments, commissions and boards. The budget shall be
itemized in a manner consistent with a chart of accounts as may now or in the
future be approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts of the State. The budget
shall contain actual or estimated revenues and expenditures for the three (3)
years immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the budget is prepared.
So far as is possible, the fiscal data for such three (3) preceding fiscal
years shall be itemized in a form consistent with the chart of accounts
approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts for the State. Each budget shall
show the specific fund from which each anticipated expenditure shall be made.
   B.   Budget Declared Appropriation Ordinance: Passage of the annual budget
by the Corporate Authorities shall be deemed passage of the appropriation
ordinance as required by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9.
   C.   Funds For Capital Improvement, Repair Or Replacement 2 : In preparation
by the Municipal Budget Officer of the annual budget, one-half of one percent
(0.5%) of equalized assessed value of property subject to taxation by the
Municipality may be accumulated in a separate fund for the purpose or purposes
of specific capital improvements, repairs, and/or replacements of specific
types of Municipal equipment or other tangible property to be designated as the
"Capital Improvement, Repair or Replacement Fund". Expenditures from the
Capital Improvement, Repair or Replacement Fund shall be budgeted in the fiscal
year in which the capital improvement, repair or replacement will occur. Upon
the completion or abandonment of any object for which the Capital Improvement,
Repair or Replacement Fund was inaugurated, or should any surplus monies remain
after the completion or abandonment of any object for which said fund was
inaugurated, then such funds no longer necessary for capital improvement,
repair or replacement shall be transferred into the General Corporate Fund of
the Municipality on the first day of the fiscal year following such
abandonment, completion or discovery of surplus funds.
   D.   Changes In Budget: The Corporate Authorities hereby delegate authority
to heads of Municipal departments, boards or commissions to delete, add or
change items budgeted previously to the department, board or commission,
subject to such limitation or requirement for prior approval by the Budget
Officer or Village President as the President and Board of Trustees then
holding office, upon a two-thirds (2/3) vote, may establish. By a vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of the members of the President and Board of Trustees then holding
office, the annual budget for the Municipality may be revised by deleting,
adding or changing budgeted items. No revision of the budget shall be made
increasing the budget in the event funds are not available to effectuate the
purpose of the revision.
   E.   Contingency Funds: The annual budget may contain money set aside for
contingency purposes not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the total budget, which
monies may be expended for contingencies upon a majority vote of the Corporate
Authorities then holding office.
   F.   Adoption Of Budget: The annual budget shall be adopted by the President
and Board of Trustees before the beginning of the fiscal year to which it
applies.
   G.   Publication And Hearing: The President and Board of Trustees shall make
the annual budget conveniently available to public inspection for at least ten
(10) days prior to the passage of the annual budget, by publication in the
journal of the proceedings of the President and Board of Trustees or in such
other form as they may prescribe. Not less than one (1) week after the
publication of the annual budget, and prior to final action on the budget, the
President and Board of Trustees shall hold at least one (1) public hearing on
the annual budget. Notice of this hearing shall be given by publication in a
newspaper having a general circulation in the Municipality at least one (1)
week prior to the time of the hearing. (Ord. 68(8)-8-29)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 9, article D of this title.
2 2. See section
  1-11-6-2 of this chapter.
1-11-2: VILLAGE DEPOSITORIES:
   A.   Depositories Designated, Sureties Notified: Banks and financial
institutions shall be as designated each year, subject to subsection C of this
section, as depositories in which the funds and monies received by the Director
of Administrative Services of this Village, by virtue of his office, may be
deposited.
The Village Clerk is authorized and directed to notify in writing the sureties
of the Director of Administrative Services of the designation of the
depositories named at least five (5) days prior to the transfer of funds to
said depositories.
   B.   Authority To Pay Out Funds: Each of the designated banks and financial
institutions is authorized to pay out the funds of the village on deposit as
aforesaid with it, from time to time, upon checks or other appropriate
withdrawal documents drawn upon said depositories and signed (their original or
facsimile signatures) in the name of the village by any three (3) of the
following:
      President
      Treasurer
      Clerk
      Director of administrative services
   C.   Statement Of Resources And Liabilities: Any bank designated as a
depository shall, while acting as such depository, furnish the board of
trustees of the village with copies of all sworn statements of the resources
and liabilities which such bank is required to furnish to the commissioner of
banks and trust companies or to the comptroller of currency. The board of
trustees of the village, as of the date of the adoption of this section, shall
have received a copy of the last two (2) sworn statements of resources and
liabilities which each said bank is required to furnish to the commissioner of
banks and trust companies or the comptroller of currency.
   D.   Limitation On Funds: Such funds or monies deposited in any bank
designated as a depository shall not exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the
capital stock and surplus of such bank and the aforesaid director of
administrative services shall not be discharged from responsibility for any
such funds or monies deposited in said bank in excess of such limitation.
   E.   Information Filed With Bank: The village clerk shall file with the
designated banks certified copies of the section under the seal of the village
and shall also file with the banks certified statements of the persons from
time to time holding the offices of president, treasurer, clerk and director of
administrative services who has primary responsibility for finance and
administration.
   F.   Effect Of Provisions: This section shall be in full force and effect
and binding upon the village until it shall have been repealed, and written
notice of such repeal under the seal of the village shall have been delivered
to any bank or financial institution designated herein as depositor. (Ords. 82-
4-15, 83-2-2; 1985 Code)
1-11-3: INVESTMENTS:
The director of administrative services of the village is authorized and
directed to invest village funds in accordance with the village's investment
policy as approved by the president and board of trustees on October 26, 1999,
pursuant to ordinance 99-19-62 which is on file in the village clerk's office.
(Ord. 99-19-62)
1-11-4: AUTHORITY TO BORROW MONEY:
   A.   Pursuant to the powers granted by article VII of the constitution of
the state of Illinois, by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members holding
office, the president and clerk may be authorized to execute necessary
documents to borrow money for the purpose of purchasing or leasing real or
personal property for public purposes, under such terms and conditions not to
exceed twenty (20) years, which the board of trustees may direct, including the
manner of repayment, and that the improvement may be encumbered as security for
the loan.
   B.   The maximum amounts that shall be borrowed under the provisions of this
section, together with all other indebtedness of the village, shall be within
all applicable limitations upon the incurring of indebtedness for the village
and for such pertinent purposes. (Ord. 73-16-19)
1-11-5: CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES:
   A.   Competitive Bidding Procedures:
      1.   Competitive Bidding Required: Any work or other public improvement
which is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment and all
purchases of, and contracts for supplies, materials and services shall, except
as specifically provided herein, be based whenever possible on competitive
bids.
      2.   Formal Contracts:
         a.   All work, including public improvement or public works which is
not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment, except as
otherwise provided herein, when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) shall be purchased by formal written contract
from the lowest responsible bidder, after due notice inviting bids, unless
competitive bidding is waived by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees
then holding office.
For purposes of this Section, "public works" shall mean the following, any
constructing, altering, reconstructing, repairing, rehabilitating, refinishing,
refurbishing, remodeling, remediating, renovating, custom fabricating,
maintenance, landscaping, improving, moving, wrecking, painting, decorating,
demolishing, and adding to or subtracting from any public building, structure,
airport facility, highway, roadway, street, alley, bridge, sewer, drain, ditch,
sewage disposal plant, water work, parking facility, railroad, excavation, or
other project, development, real property, or improvement, or to do any part
thereof, whether or not the performance of the work herein described involves
the addition to, or fabrication into, any structure, project or development,
real property, publicly owned property, or improvement herein described of any
material or article of merchandise, which is paid for out of a public fund or
out of a special assessment. The term also includes any public works leased by
a political subdivision under a lease containing an option to purchase.
For purposes of this Chapter, the term "public works" shall not include
landscaping that is not performed in conjunction with or as part of work
otherwise covered under the Prevailing Wage Act ("Act"), 820 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
When no other covered work such as "hardscape" is involved, such landscaping
work is not covered work under the Act and shall not be subject to the
requirements contained herein.
         b.   All single purchases of, and individual contracts for supplies,
materials and/or services, except as otherwise provided herein, when the
estimated cost thereof shall exceed twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), shall
be purchased by formal written contract from the lowest responsible bidder,
after due notice inviting bids, unless competitive bidding is waived by a vote
of two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees then holding office. When, in the ordinary
course of village business, no single purchase of, or individual contract for,
specific types of supplies, materials or services exceeds twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00), but the total dollar value of all purchases and/or
contracts for said specific types of supplies, materials or services during the
village's fiscal year does exceed said amount, said purchases and/or contracts
shall be handled as set forth in subsection B of this section, at the lowest
obtainable price, from the most qualified responsible contractor/vendor. It is
not the intent of this subsection to encourage the circumvention of the bidding
requirements and, to the extent practicable, village staff is encouraged to
rely upon the competitive bidding process. Rather, the competitive bidding
exemption provided by this subsection is intended to recognize and address
those situations in which a competitive bidding requirement is not necessarily
practicable, and can be eliminated without jeopardizing the village's ability
to obtain a low and competitive price from a qualified responsible contractor/
vendor.
      3.   Notice Inviting Bids:
         a.   Notice inviting bids shall be published at least once in a
newspaper with a general circulation within the village. The newspaper notice
required herein shall include a general description of the work to be performed
or the articles to be purchased, shall state where specifications may be
secured, and the time and place for opening bids.
         b.   The village shall also advertise all pending work or purchases by
posting a notice on the public bulletin board in the village hall and on the
village website.
         c.   The Village shall also conduct a search for companies that may be
responsive to a proposed bid and contact those companies if they are located
within a thirty (30) mile radius of the Village in order to broaden the pool of
potentially responsive bidders.
      4.   Bid Deposits: When deemed necessary by the board of trustees, bid
deposits shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful
bidders shall be entitled to the return of their bid deposit upon the award of
the contract by the board of trustees. A successful bidder shall forfeit any
bid deposit required by the board of trustees upon failure on his part to enter
into a contract within ten (10) days after the award.
      5.   Performance Bonds: The village administration shall have the
authority to require performance bonds before entering into a contract in such
an amount as it shall find reasonable and necessary to protect the best
interests of the village. Such performance bonds will be required on contracts
involving purchases where materials and labor are involved. On purchases of
material only, a warranty will be required for the specific use of the
material.
      6.   Submittal And Award Of Bids:
         a.   Bids shall be submitted to the village and shall be identified as
bids on the envelope.
         b.   Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in
the public notices.
         c.   A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the board of
trustees or by a village employee, in which event a tabulation of the bids
shall be furnished to the board of trustees at its next regular meeting.
         d.   The village shall have the authority to reject all bids or parts
of all bids when the public interest will be served thereby. The village shall
not accept the bid of a contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes,
licenses or other monies due the village.
         e.   The board of trustees shall have the authority to award contracts
within the purview of this section. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interest of the
village to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the board of
trustees shall consider:
            (1)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
            (2)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
            (3)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience
and efficiency of the bidder;
            (4)   A copy of the Illinois Secretary of State's Department of
Business Services online records evidencing that the bidder has a current
corporate annual report on file. If the bidder is an individual, sole
proprietor, or partnership, this subsection shall not apply;
            (5)   Documents evidencing current registration with the Illinois
Department of Revenue if bidder has employees (e.g. document with account
number, Illinois business tax number).
            (6)   Documents evidencing current registration with the Illinois
Department of Employment Security if bidder has employees (e.g. document with
UI account number).
            (7)   Disclosure of any federal, state or local tax liens or tax
delinquencies against the bidder or any officers of the bidder in the last five
(5) years.
            (8)   A statement that all employees are (i) covered under a
current workers' compensation insurance policy and (ii) properly classified
under such policy. If the bidder is insured with a carrier, the evidence of
workers' compensation insurance shall be a copy of the "information page" of
the bidder's workers' compensation policy and any continuation of that
information page which include the name and address of the insured, as well as
the class codes the compensation premium is based on and the total estimated
remuneration per class code.
            (9)   A statement of compliance with all provisions of the Illinois
Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/1 et seq.) and all rules and regulations
therein, for the past five (5) years. Such statement shall also provide that
the contractor has reviewed the Prevailing Wage Act or federal Davis-Bacon and
Related Acts, has reviewed and agrees to pay the applicable prevailing wage
rates attached to the bid specifications, and will strictly comply with the
Prevailing Wage Act or federal Davis-Bacon and Related Acts and related
requirements. A contractor who has been found by the Illinois Department of
Labor to be in violation of the Prevailing Wage Act twice within a three (3)
year period shall be deemed not to be a responsible bidder for two (2) years
from the date of the latest finding.
            (10)   A copy of the written program for the prevention of
substance abuse to be filed with a public body pursuant to the Substance Abuse
Prevention on Public Works Projects Act (820 ILCS 265/1 et seq.).
            (11)   A statement that individuals who will perform work on the
public works project on behalf of the bidder are properly classified as either
(i) an employee or (ii) an independent contractor under all applicable state
and federal laws and local ordinances.
            (12)   Documents evidencing any professional or trade license
required by law or local ordinance for any trade or specialty area in which the
contractor is seeking a contract award. Additionally, the bidder must disclose
any suspension or revocation of such license held by the company, or of any
director, officer or manager of the company.
            (13)   Evidence of participation in apprenticeship and training
programs applicable to the work to be performed on the project which are
approved by and registered with the United States Department of Labor's Office
of Apprenticeship, or its successor organization. The required evidence
includes but is not limited to a copy of all applicable apprenticeship
standards or apprenticeship agreement(s) for any apprentice(s) who will perform
work on the public works project.
            (14)   Bidder shall certify that all employees expected to perform
work on the project have completed a ten (10)-hour or greater OSHA safety
program. Only workers that have satisfactorily completed a ten (10)-hour or
greater OSHA safety program will be allowed to participate on the project. The
bidder must have copies of employee OSHA cards on file, and Village of Oak Lawn
may request the bidder provide copies of employees OSHA cards; failure to
produce an employee's OSHA card may result in a determination that the bidder
is not a responsible bidder.
            (15)   Disclosure of the name and address of each subcontractor
from whom the bidder has accepted a bid and/or intends to hire on any part of
the project. Further, each such subcontractor shall be required to adhere to
the requirements set forth herein as though it were bidding directly to Village
of Oak Lawn. Each contractor shall submit all subcontractor information and
supporting documentation to Village of Oak Lawn prior to the subcontractor
commencing work on the project.
            (16)   Statements as to past performance, which shall give an
accurate and complete record of all public works projects completed in the past
five (5) years by the contractor. Such statements shall include the name of the
public body and the project, original contract price, final contract price, and
the names of all subcontractors used, if applicable, and a statement as to
compliance with completion deadlines.
            (17)   Any determinations by a court or governmental agency for
violations of federal, state, or local laws, including but not limited to
serious, willful or repeated violations of the Occupational Safety and Health
Act (OSHA), violations of contracting or antitrust laws, tax or licensing laws,
environmental laws, or the Federal Davis-Bacon and Related Acts.
The bidder and subcontractor(s) have a continuing obligation to report any
material changes to their status as it pertains to any of the items contained
in this Section, at any time. Such changes must be reported in writing to
Village of Oak Lawn within fourteen (14) days of its occurrence. Failure to
comply with this requirement is grounds for the contractor to be deemed a non-
responsible bidder.
         (18)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         (19)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws
and ordinances relating to the contract or service;
         (20)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (21)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (22)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract;
         (23)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid;
         (24)   Whether the bidder has a place of business in the village.
The bidder and subcontractor(s) have a continuing obligation to report any
material changes to their status as it pertains to any of the items contained
in this Section, at any time. Such changes must be reported in writing to
Village of Oak Lawn within fourteen (14) days of its occurrence. Failure to
comply with this requirement is grounds for the contractor to be deemed a non-
responsible bidder.
   B.   Open Market Procedure: All work and purchase of supplies, materials and
services of less than the estimated value of twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00), respectively, shall be made in the open market, without newspaper
advertisement and without observing the procedure prescribed by this section
for the award of formal contracts.
   C.   Professional Services: All contracts for professional services,
including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers, real estate appraisers,
auditors, architects and village planners may be entered into by the village
without observing the bidding procedures prescribed by this section for the
award of formal contracts.
   D.   Emergency Purchases: In case of an apparent emergency which requires
immediate work or purchase of supplies, materials or services, the board of
trustees shall be empowered to secure by open market procedure as herein set
forth, at the lowest obtainable price, any work, supplies, materials or
services regardless of the amount of the expenditure.
   E.   Cooperative Purchasing: The village shall have the authority to join
with other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best
interest of the village would be served thereby.
   F.   Utilities, U.S. Mail And Insurance: All contracts for utility services
(electricity, natural gas and telecommunications services), U.S. mail services,
and insurance may be entered into by the village without observing the bidding
procedures prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   G.   Procurement Of Products Made From Recycled Materials: Where practical,
it shall be the policy of the village that in purchasing materials, office
supplies and other products used by the village, the village shall attempt to
procure materials, office supplies and other products that are made in whole or
in part with recycled materials, to the extent that the cost of such materials,
office supplies and/or other products do/does not exceed the cost of similar
materials, office supplies and/or other products available in the marketplace,
and not made of recycled materials, by more than ten percent (10%). (1951 Code
2-8-5; Ords. 473, 73-26-47, 76-37-80; 1985 Code; Ords. 89-21-69, 96-6-26, 96-
13-65, 06-05-23, 20-02-07)
1-11-5-1: RESPONSIBLE BIDDER REQUIREMENTS:
In determining which bidder is a "responsible bidder" on village public works
projects, the bidder must comply with the following criteria and submit
acceptable evidence of such compliance, in addition to any other requirements
as determined from time to time by the village for the specific type of work to
be performed. The village attorney shall promulgate forms, which shall be
executed with the public works contract and which shall require the following
contractor submissions and certifications:
   A.   Compliance with all applicable laws and village codes and ordinances
prerequisite to doing business in Illinois and the village, including required
village licenses;
   B.   Evidence of compliance with:
      1.   Submittal of federal employer tax identification number or social
security number (for individual);
      2.   Provisions of section 2000(e) of chapter 21, title 42 of the United
States Code and federal executive order no. 11375 (known as the equal
opportunity employer provisions);
   C.   Certificates of insurance indicating at least the following coverage at
minimum limits established by the village: general liability, workers'
compensation, completed operations, automobile, hazardous occupation, product
liability, and professional liability;
   D.   Compliance with all provisions of the Illinois prevailing wage act,
including wages, medical and hospitalization insurance and retirement for those
trades as covered by the act;
   E.   Participation in apprenticeship and training programs approved and
registered with the United States department of labor's bureau of
apprenticeship and training;
   F.   Compliance with the applicable provisions of the Illinois human rights
act and the rules of the Illinois human rights commission;
   G.   Adoption of a sexual harassment policy pursuant to Illinois public act
87-1257;
   H.   Furnishing of required performance and payment bonds;
   I.   Certificate of no delinquency in the payment of any tax administered by
the Illinois department of revenue;
   J.   Certificate of the bidder is not barred from bidding or contracting as
a result of a violation of either section 33E-3 or 33E-4 of chapter 720,
article 5 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes;
   K.   Evidence the bidder has not only the financial responsibility but also
the ability to respond by the discharge of the contractor's obligations in
accordance with that which is expected or demanded under the terms of the
contract;
   L.   Submission of a contractor's drug free workplace certification;
   M.   Submission of an indemnity and hold harmless agreement; and
   N.   Submission of an anticollusion affidavit of compliance. (Ord. 07-09-31)
1-11-6: FUNDS:
1-11-6-1: PUBLIC BENEFIT TAX AND FUND:
   A.   Tax Imposed: Pursuant to the authority provided in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/9-2-39, a tax is hereby imposed of a direct annual tax of 0.05
percent of the full, fair cash value, as equalized or assessed by the
department of revenue of all taxable property in the village. This tax shall be
known as the public benefit tax.
   B.   Fund Established: The fund arising from the tax imposed by this section
shall be known as a public benefit fund, which fund shall be used solely for
the purpose of paying that portion of the several amounts heretofore assessed
against the municipality for public benefits as well as paying any such amount
as may be hereafter assessed for public benefit under and in pursuance of any
ordinance that may be hereafter passed.
   C.   Warrants Drawn: Warrants may be drawn against the public benefit tax as
and in the manner and with like effect as is provided in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-1-9, 5/8-1-11 and 5/8-1-12. (Ord. 68-9-21)
1-11-6-2: CAPITAL RESERVE FUND:
The president and board of trustees finds:
   A.   That it is in the best interest of the village to replace capital
equipment which is becoming outmoded or is no longer useful.
   B.   That the replacement of capital equipment creates a drain on the budget
of the village and that a long range plan is necessary to deal with this
problem.
   C.   That it is in the best interests of the village to set up a capital
reserve fund for the replacement of capital equipment to resolve this problem
on a long range basis.
   D.   That the director of administrative services of the village is directed
to transfer five hundred seventy thousand dollars ($570,000.00) from the
general fund and four hundred fifteen thousand dollars ($415,000.00) of the
monies that the Oak Lawn park district owes the village, as a result of a loan
by the village to the park district from the general fund for a total transfer
of nine hundred eighty five thousand dollars ($985,000.00) into a capital
reserve fund to be used by the village for the purchase of capital equipment.
Any and all interest earned on the money in said capital reserve fund is to
remain in the capital reserve fund and to be used for the purchase of capital
equipment by the village.
The Director of Administrative Services of the Village is directed to submit to
the Village President and Board of Trustees a long range plan for the use of
the funds being transferred into said Capital Reserve Fund. (Ord. 83-24-67)
1-11-6-3: UNCLAIMED REBATE FUND:
Whenever the Director of Administrative Services determines that the uses of
the Unclaimed Rebate Fund set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-1-
9 are no longer relevant, applicable and in the best interests of the Village,
the Director may cause the transfer of all funds in the Unclaimed Rebate Fund
to the General Fund or any other special fund of the Village and cancel and
close out the Unclaimed Rebate Fund. (Ord. 81-26-82)
1-11-7: WAGE RATES FOR PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYEES:
   A.   To the extent as required by "An Act Regulating Wages of Laborers,
Mechanics and Other Workmen Employed in Any Public Works by the State, County,
City or by Anyone Under Contract for Public Works", approved June 26, 1941, as
amended 1 , the general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers,
mechanics and other workmen engaged in the construction of public works coming
under the jurisdiction of this Village is hereby ascertained to be the same as
the most recent prevailing rate of wages for construction work in the Cook
County area, as determined by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois,
a copy of the most recent determination being incorporated herein by reference.
The definition of any terms appearing in this section which are also used in
the aforesaid Act, shall be the same as in said Act.
   B.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment,
except public works construction of this Village to the extent required by the
aforesaid Act.
   C.   The Village Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection
by any interested party in the main office of this Village the determination of
such prevailing rate of wages and the Village Clerk shall mail a copy of the
determination to any employer, and to any association of employers, and to any
person or association of employees who have filed their names and addresses
requesting copies of any determination stating the particular rates and the
particular class of workmen whose wages will be affected by such rates. (Ord.
78-20-49; 1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 130/1.
1-11-8: SURETY REQUIREMENTS ON BONDS:
Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the Village is required as a prerequisite
to exercising the duties of any office or position, or to the issuance of a
license or permit or the exercise of any special privilege, the surety on such
bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do business in this
State as a surety company. The cost of all bond premiums required by the
Village officers shall be paid by the Village. (1951 Code 2-8-8)
1-11-9: WARRANTS:
All warrants drawn upon the Treasury must be signed by the President of the
Village and countersigned by the Village Clerk and must state the particular
fund to which same is chargeable and the person to whom payable, and for what
purpose the same was drawn; and no money shall be otherwise paid than upon
warrants so drawn. Required signatures may be by facsimile. (1951 Code
2-8-4)
1-11-10: QUARTERLY BUDGET STATUS REPORT:
The Finance Department shall prepare, on a quarterly basis, a status report
relative to expenditures by each department within the General Fund. Said
report shall set forth by department the total amount budgeted for said
department for the fiscal year, the amount of actual expenditures by said
department for the quarter covered by the report, the amount of actual
expenditures by said department during the current fiscal year through the end
of the quarter covered by the report, and what percent of the total amount
budgeted is represented by the amount spent. Said report shall be provided to
the President and Board of Trustees on or before the twentieth business day of
the month following the quarter covered by said report. Said reports shall be
reviewed by the Finance and Technology Committee at the committee's first
meeting following the issuance of each report. In the event that any member of
the Finance and Technology Committee desires to question any one (1) or more
department heads relative to any such report at a Finance and Technology
Committee meeting, said member shall advise the Village Manager of the need for
the attendance of said department head(s) at the Finance and Technology
Committee meeting. (Ord. 17-15-56)
CHAPTER 12
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
1-12-1: State Code Adopted
1-12-2: Cost of Improvement Exceeding Assessment
1-12-3: Special Assessment Rebates
1-12-4: Interest Rates on Installments
1-12-5: Special Assessment Bonds
1-12-6: FAUS Projects
1-12-7: Supplemental Assessments
1-12-1: STATE CODE ADOPTED:
Sections 5/9-2-1 to 9-2-144 of the Illinois Municipal Code 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes, are adopted by reference; provided, that sections 5/9-2-144 and 5/9-
2-138 are not adopted and, further provided, the provisions of said section 5/
9-2-144, and the provisions of Section
1-12-2 of this Chapter shall supersede the provisions of said section 5/9-2-
138. (Ords. 78-3-3, 78-18-43)
1-12-2: COST OF IMPROVEMENT EXCEEDING ASSESSMENT:
Except as otherwise provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-2-117, within
thirty (30) days after the final completion and, where required, acceptance of
the work, as provided in said section 5/9-2-112, the Board of Local
Improvements 1  shall have the cost thereof, including the cost of engineering
services, certified, in writing, to the court in which the assessment was
confirmed, together with an amount estimated by the Board to be required to pay
the accruing interest on bonds or vouchers issued to anticipate collection.
Thereupon, if the total amount assessed for the improvement upon the
Municipality and the property exceeds the cost of the improvement, all of that
excess, except the amount required to pay such interest as is provided for
herein, shall be abated and the judgment reduced as follows:
   A.   Whenever the public benefit assessment exceeds fifty one percent (51%)
of the total amount assessed, all of said excess shall be applied to abating
and reducing the public benefit assessment and judgment under the direction of
the court.
   B.   Whenever the public benefit assessment is less than fifty one percent
(51%) of the total amount assessed, all of said excess shall be abated and the
judgment reduced proportionately to the public and private property owners, and
shall be credited pro rata upon the respective assessment for the improvement
under the direction of the court.
This reduction shall be made in the manner prayed for by the Village in its
certificate of final cost and completion.
If, prior to the entry of the order abating and reducing the assessment, the
assessment has been certified for collection pursuant to the provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-2-7, and property owner has paid his assessment
and, because of said abatement is entitled to a refund of any portion of his
paid assessment, the Village Treasurer shall immediately make any and all such
refunds to the person who actually paid the assessment. (Ord. 78-3-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 3 of this Code.
1-12-3: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT REBATES:
If, after final settlement with the contractor for any improvement and after
full payment of all vouchers or bonds, except those bonds and interest coupons
not presented for payment, although called and for which funds are available
and reserved, there is any surplus remaining in the special assessment or
special tax above the specified payments and above the amount necessary for the
payment of interest on those vouchers or bonds, such surplus shall be applied
to reimbursing the Public Benefit Fund 1  for any amounts paid from such Fund
on account of the improvement. If, after the Public Benefit Fund has been
reimbursed, a surplus still remains, the proper authorities of the Village
shall declare at once a rebate upon each lot, block, tract or parcel of land
assessed, of its pro rata proportion of that surplus. Such rebate shall be paid
to the owner of record of each such lot, block, tract or parcel at the time of
the declaration of the rebate. Should any additional funds be collected after
the original rebate is declared, the Village shall not be required to declare a
supplemental rebate for five (5) years from the date the original rebate is
declared. The Village may deduct for its cost and expenses for declaring and
making any rebate, not more than five percent (5%) of the amount declared to be
rebated. The Board of Local Improvements shall keep and exhibit publicly in its
office an index of all warrants upon which rebates are due and payable and upon
proper proof, the warrants shall be repaid to the person entitled thereto;
provided, however, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein, in any special assessment in which the cost to the Village in making
such a rebate, including, but not limited to the costs of ascertaining the
owners of record of each lot, block, tract or parcel entitled to such a rebate,
the preparation of a rebate roll, the preparation of rebate checks, and the
cost of checks and postage, exceeds the amount of such surplus, the Board of
Trustees, upon written recommendation from the Village Director of
Administrative Services showing the amount of the surplus and the projected
costs that exceed such surplus, may transfer such surplus to the General
Corporate Fund. In addition, if, after the deduction of such projected costs,
the amount to be rebated to fifty one percent (51%) or more of the lots,
blocks, tracts or parcels involved is less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
per lot, block, tract or parcel, the Board of Trustees, upon written
recommendation from the Village Director of Administrative Services showing the
amount of the surplus, the projected costs, and the amount of rebate per lot,
block, tract or parcel to be less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) for fifty
one percent (51%) or more of the lots, blocks, tracts or parcels involved, may
transfer the entire surplus to the General Corporate Fund. The Village Director
of Administrative Services shall keep and exhibit publicly in his office, a
copy of such written recommendation to the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 78-18-43;
1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-11-6-1 of this Title.
1-12-4: INTEREST RATES ON INSTALLMENTS:
Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 9-2-48, 9-2-48(1) or 9-2-51 of
chapter 24 of the Illinois Revised Statutes or the provisions of any other law
to the contrary, all installments of any assessment shall bear interest until
paid, at the rate set forth in the ordinance referred to in section 9-2-10 of
said chapter 24 and not to exceed the greater of nine percent (9%) annually or
seventy percent (70%) of the prime commercial rate in effect at the time of the
passage of such ordinance. Prime commercial rate means such prime rate as from
time to time is publicly announced at the largest commercial banking
institution located in this State, measured in terms of total assets. (Ord. 81-
26-46)
1-12-5: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT BONDS:
   A.   This Section shall not be construed as repealing any other sections of
division 2, chapter 24 of the Illinois Revised Statutes, but shall be
considered as an additional grant of power for the purpose herein set out.
   B.   The Village may issue special assessment bonds at any time after the
adoption of the ordinance referred to in section 9-2-10 of said chapter 24 of
the Illinois Revised Statutes and may thereafter purchase said bonds out of the
proceeds of any general obligation bond issue(s) or any other funds whatsoever
available to the Village. Any such special assessment bonds issued pursuant to
this Section shall be in substantially the same form as those bonds provided
for in section 9-2-128 of said chapter 24 of the Illinois Revised Statutes.
   C.   Whenever the Village purchases such special assessment bonds, it may
pay the contractor in cash in lieu of issuing vouchers for work performed.
   D.   Any such special assessment bonds purchased by the Village pursuant to
this Section shall be retired out of the collection of the special assessment
installments from both private and public property assessments and from the
Village by reason of public benefit, substantially in accordance with the
provisions of section 9-2-129 of chapter 24 of the Illinois Revised Statutes.
The Village may then use the proceeds from the payment of any such special
assessment bonds to pay the principal and interest due on any outstanding
general obligation bonds, the proceeds of which were originally used to
purchase said special assessment bonds or to reimburse any other fund used to
purchase said bonds. (Ord. 81-26-46)
1-12-6: FAUS PROJECTS:
In any case in which a local Village street(s) has been improved as a part of a
FAUS project and Federal funding of such project exceeds fifty percent (50%) of
the cost thereof, and it is determined by the Board of Local Improvements that
the primary benefit from the improvement of any such street(s) accrues to the
property fronting on such local street(s), the Board of Trustees has the power
to recover that portion of the Village's share of such FAUS project, which was
incurred primarily for the benefit of such property, by special assessment of
such property. The Board of Trustees shall, as nearly as possible, follow the
procedures provided in division 2 of article 9 of chapter 24 of the Illinois
Revised Statutes, as amended by the Village Code as to any such recovery
special assessment. (Ord. 81-36-73)
1-12-7: SUPPLEMENTAL ASSESSMENTS:
In lieu of the procedures set forth in section 9-2-74 of chapter 24 of the
Illinois Revised Statutes, heretofore adopted by reference, whenever a
supplemental assessment is necessary and the Board of Trustees determines that
the entire amount of the deficiency is to be levied exclusively against public
benefit, the Board of Trustees may proceed as follows:
   A.   Adopt an ordinance calling for the making of a supplemental assessment
only against the Village by reason of public benefit in the amount of the
entire deficiency.
   B.   In the event the amount of any such deficiency exceeds two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000.00), the Village need not publish the ordinance
prior to its adoption as provided for in section 9-2-13 of chapter 24, of the
Illinois Revised Statutes; provided, however, that the original ordinance
providing for the making of the public improvement in question exceeded two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) and was published in accordance with
said section 9-2-13.
   C.   File a supplemental petition and report and assessment roll with the
Circuit Court of Cook County, County Division.
   D.   Obtain entry of an order by said Circuit Court confirming said
supplemental report and assessment roll.
   E.   File a supplemental certificate of final cost and completion with said
Circuit Court.
   F.   Obtain entry of an order by said Circuit Court confirming the
supplemental certificate of final cost and completion. (Ord. 82-3-13)
CHAPTER 13
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS AND POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES
SECTION:
1-13-1: Purpose
1-13-2: Definitions
1-13-3: Village Powers
1-13-4: Exercise of Powers, Bond Issuance
1-13-4-1: Covenants in Bonds
1-13-4-2: Signatures Required
1-13-4-3: Validity of Bonds
1-13-4-4: Lien
1-13-5: Liability for Bonds
1-13-6: Investment of Funds
1-13-7: Project Exemptions
1-13-8: Applicability of Other Provisions
1-13-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared that the purpose of this Chapter is to
provide a financing device which will aid in financing the cost of projects in
order to encourage economic development within the Municipality, thereby
reducing the evils attendant upon underemployment and to provide for the
increased welfare and prosperity of the residents of the Municipality; it is
hereby further determined and declared to be the purpose of this Chapter to
provide a financing device which will aid in financing the cost of pollution
control facilities in order to eliminate, abate or reduce the serious dangers
to the public health and welfare caused by environmental pollution; and the
same are declared and determined to be public purposes and functions pertaining
to the government and affairs of the Municipality. (Ord. 76-36-79)
1-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this Chapter the following words and terms shall have the
meanings herein set out, except when a different meaning clearly appears from
the context:
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: Any land, interest in land, building, structure,
facility, system, fixture, improvement, addition, appurtenance, machinery or
equipment or any combination thereof, and all real and personal property deemed
necessary in connection therewith, for use by any person; provided, that the
existence of such economic development project will create or retain employment
opportunities in the Municipality.
MUNICIPALITY: The Village of Oak Lawn, Illinois.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation
(including public utilities), association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
political subdivision, state agency, or any other legal entity, or its legal
representative, agent or assigns.
POLLUTION: Any form of environmental pollution including, but not limited to,
water pollution, air pollution, land pollution, solid waste pollution, thermal
pollution, radiation contamination or noise pollution as determined by the
various standards prescribed by this State, the Federal government or other
governmental entities and including, but not limited to, anything which is
considered as pollution or environmental damage in the Environmental Protection
Act, compiled as sections 1001 et. seq. of chapter 1111/2, Illinois Revised
Statutes and any amendment thereto and substitution therefor.
POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY: Any land, interest in land, building, structure,
facility, system, fixture, improvement, appurtenance, addition, machinery or
equipment, or any combination thereof, and all real and personal property
deemed necessary therewith, having to do with or the end purpose of which is
reducing, controlling or preventing pollution.
PROJECT: Any economic development project or pollution control facility or any
combination thereof.
PROJECT COSTS: Include the sum total of all reasonable or necessary costs
incidental to the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, repair,
alteration, improvement and extension of a project, including without
limitation the cost of studies and surveys; plans, specifications,
architectural and engineering services; legal, marketing or other special
services; financing, acquisition, demolition, construction, equipment and site
development of new and rehabilitated buildings, rehabilitation, reconstruction,
repair or remodeling of existing buildings and all other necessary and
incidental expenses, including an initial bond and interest reserve together
with interest on bonds issued to finance a project to a date six (6) months
subsequent to the estimated date of completion. (Ord. 76-36-79)
1-13-3: VILLAGE POWERS:
In addition to powers which it may now have, the Municipality shall have the
power under this Chapter:
   A.   To construct, acquire by gift, purchase or lease, to reconstruct,
improve, better or extend and to finance one or more projects, whether or not
now or hereafter in existence, within the Municipality, and, if desirable, to
acquire by gift, purchase or lease, lands or rights in land in connection with
any project.
   B.   To issue its revenue bonds to defray in whole or in part the project
costs of any project and to designate an appropriate name for such bonds.
   C.   To rent, lease or sell any project to any person in such manner that
payments to be received with respect to the project shall produce revenues and
receipts sufficient to provide for the prompt payment at maturity of principal,
interest and redemption premiums, if any, upon all bonds issued to finance the
cost of such project.
   D.   To pledge to the punctual payment of bonds authorized under this
Chapter, the interest thereon, and the redemption premiums, if any, the
revenues and receipts to be received from such project.
   E.   To mortgage such project in favor of the holder or holders of bonds
issued therefor.
   F.   To sell and convey such project, including without limitation the sale
and conveyance thereof subject to a mortgage, if any, as provided in this
Chapter, for such price and at such time as the governing body of the
Municipality may determine. However, no sale or conveyance of such project
shall ever be made in such manner as to impair the rights or interests of the
holder or holders of any bonds issued to finance the project costs of such
project.
   G.   To issue its bonds and to refund in whole or in part bonds theretofore
issued by such Municipality under authority of this Chapter. (Ord. 76-36-79)
1-13-4: EXERCISE OF POWERS, BOND ISSUANCE:
The exercise of all powers granted by this Chapter may be authorized, and bonds
may be authorized to be issued under this Chapter for the purpose set forth
herein, by ordinance of the governing body of the Municipality which may be
adopted at the same meeting at which it is introduced, and shall take effect
immediately upon adoption.
The bonds shall bear interest at such rate or rates, payable at such times, may
be in one or more series, may bear such date or dates, may mature at such time
or times not exceeding forty (40) years from their respective dates, may be
payable in such medium of payment at such place or places, may carry such
registration privileges, may be subject to such terms of redemption at such
premiums, may be executed in such manner, may contain such terms, covenants and
conditions, and may be in such form, either coupon or registered, as such
ordinance may provide or as may be subsequently determined by the governing
body before the bonds are issued. The bonds may be sold at public or private
sale in such manner and upon such terms as may be deemed advisable by the
governing body of the Municipality. Pending the preparation of the definitive
bonds, interim receipts or certificates in such form and with such provisions
as the governing body of the Municipality may determine, may be issued by the
purchaser or purchasers of bonds sold pursuant to this Chapter. The bonds and
interim receipts or certificates shall be deemed to be securities and
negotiable instruments within the meaning and for all purposes of the Uniform
Commercial Code. (Ord. 76-36-79)
1-13-4-1: COVENANTS IN BONDS:
   A.   Any ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds under this Chapter may
contain covenants as to:
      1.   The use and disposition of the revenues and receipts from the
project for which the bonds are to be issued, including the creation and
maintenance of reserves;
      2.   The issuance of other or additional bonds relating to the project or
any rehabilitation, improvements, renovations, enlargements or additions
thereto;
      3.   The maintenance and repair of such project;
      4.   The insurance to be carried thereon and the use and disposition of
insurance moneys;
      5.   The appointment of any bank or trust company within or outside the
State of Illinois having the necessary trust powers as trustee for the benefit
of the bondholders, paying agent and bond registrar;
      6.   The investment of any funds held by such trustee; and
      7.   The terms and conditions upon which the holders of the bonds or any
portion thereof or any trustee therefor, are entitled to the appointment of a
receiver.
   B.   Any ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds under this Chapter may
provide that the principal of and interest on any bonds issued under this
Chapter shall be secured by a mortgage or indenture of trust covering such
project for which the bonds are issued and may include any improvements or
extensions thereafter made. Such mortgage or indenture of trust may contain
such covenants and agreements to properly safeguard the bonds, and shall be
executed in the manner as may be provided for in the ordinance. The provisions
of this Chapter and any such ordinance or ordinances, and any such mortgage or
indenture of trust, shall constitute a contract with the holder or holders of
the bonds and continue in effect until the principal of, the interest on and
the redemption premiums, if any, on the bonds so issued have been fully paid,
and the duties of the Municipality and its corporate authorities and officers
under this Chapter and any such ordinance or ordinances, and any such mortgage
or indenture of trust, shall be enforceable by any bondholder by mandamus,
foreclosure of any such mortgage or indenture of trust or other appropriate
suit, action or proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction; provided,
the ordinance or any mortgage or indenture of trust under which the bonds are
issued may provide that all such remedies and rights to enforcement may be
vested in a trustee for the benefit of all the bondholders, which trustee shall
be subject to the control of a majority of the holders or owners of any
outstanding bonds. (Ord. 76-36-79)
1-13-4-2: SIGNATURES REQUIRED:
The bonds shall bear the signatures of such officers of the Municipality as may
be designated in the ordinance authorizing such bonds, and such signatures
shall be the valid and binding signatures of the officers of the Municipality,
notwithstanding that before the delivery thereof and payments therefor, any or
all of the persons whose signatures appear thereon have ceased to be officers
of the Municipality issuing such bonds. (Ord. 76-36-79)
1-13-4-3: VALIDITY OF BONDS:
The validity of the bonds is not dependent on nor affected by the validity or
regularity of any proceedings relating to the acquisition, purchase,
construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipping, betterment or extension
of the project for which the bonds are issued. The ordinance authorizing the
bonds may provide that the bonds shall contain a recital that they are issued
pursuant to this Chapter, which recital shall be conclusive evidence of their
validity and of the regularity of their issuance. (Ord. 76-36-79)
1-13-4-4: LIEN:
All bonds issued under this Chapter have a lien upon the revenues and receipts
derived from the project for which the bonds have been issued, and the
governing body may provide in the ordinance or ordinances authorizing such
bonds, for the issuance of additional bonds to be equally and ratably secured
by a lien upon such revenues and receipts, or may provide that the lien upon
such revenues and receipts is subordinate. (Ord. 76-36-79)
1-13-5: LIABILITY FOR BONDS:
All bonds under and pursuant to this Chapter shall be limited obligations of
the Municipality, payable solely out of the revenues and receipts derived from
the project with respect to which such bonds are issued. No holder of any
bonds, the interest or premium, if any, thereon, and the bonds do not
constitute an indebtedness of the Municipality or a loan of credit thereof
within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory provision. It shall be
plainly stated on the face of each bond that it has been issued under the
provisions of this Chapter and that it does not constitute an indebtedness of
the Municipality or a loan of credit thereof within the meaning of any
constitutional or statutory provisions. (Ord. 76-36-79)
1-13-6: INVESTMENT OF FUNDS:
The Municipality, or any trustee on behalf of the Municipality, may invest any
funds held by it pursuant to this Chapter in bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, treasury bills or other securities constituting direct
obligations of the United States of America; in certificates of deposit or time
deposits constituting direct obligations of any bank as defined by the Illinois
Banking Act, 1  as heretofore and hereafter amended; provided, however, that
investments may be made only in those certificates of deposit or time deposits
in banks which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, if
then in existence; or in short term discount obligations of the Federal
National Mortgage Association. Any such securities may be purchased at the
offering or market price thereof at the time of such purchase. (Ord. 76-36-79)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. ch. 17, §§301 et. seq.
1-13-7: PROJECT EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Public Building Construction and Bidding Requirements: The acquisition
and construction of a project shall not be subject to any requirements relating
to public buildings, structures, grounds, works or improvements imposed by the
Illinois Revised Statutes or any other similar requirements which may be
lawfully waived by this Section and any requirements of competitive bidding or
restriction imposed on the procedure for award of contracts for such purpose or
the lease, sale or other disposition of property of the Municipality is not
applicable to any action taken under authority of this Chapter.
   B.   Property Taxes: Property acquired by the Municipality pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter shall be exempt from the imposition and collection
of taxes thereon while owned by the Municipality, but the use of such property
is subject to taxation to be paid by the lessee or occupants as provided in
section 26 of the Revenue Act of 1939, filed May 17, 1939, or as may hereafter
be amended. (Ord. 76-36-79)
1-13-8: APPLICABILITY OF OTHER PROVISIONS:
The powers conferred by this Chapter are in addition and supplemental to, and
the limitations imposed by this Chapter shall not affect the powers conferred
by any law or any other ordinance. Projects may be acquired, purchased,
constructed, reconstructed, improved, bettered, equipped, extended and
financed, and bonds may be issued under this Chapter for such purposes,
notwithstanding that any law or any other ordinance may provide for the
acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction, improvement equipping,
betterment, extension and financing of a like project, or the issuance of bonds
for like purposes, and without regard to the requirements, restrictions,
limitations, or other provisions contained in any law or any other ordinance.
(Ord. 76-36-79)
CHAPTER 14
VILLAGE SEAL
SECTION:
1-14-1: Description
1-14-1: DESCRIPTION:
The Corporate Seal of the Village shall be circular in shape and shall bear
around the outside the words "Village of Oak Lawn, Cook County, Illinois" and
in the center thereof the words "Corporate Seal". (1951 Code
2-8-2; Ord. 68-26-72)
CHAPTER 15
CODE OF ETHICS
SECTION:
1-15-1: Policy Statement
1-15-2: Applicability
1-15-3: Responsibilities Of Public Office/Employment
1-15-4: Chapter Updates
1-15-5: State Officials And Employees Ethics Act
1-15-5-1: Allegations Of Sexual Harassment Against An Elected Official By An
Elected Official
1-15-5-2: Reporting Claims Of Sexual Harassment For Elected Officials
1-15-5-3: Independent Review Of Sexual Harassment Allegations Made Against An
Elected Official By An Elected Official
1-15-6: Hiring And Contract Decisions
1-15-7: Conflicts Of Interest And Improper Influence
1-15-7-1: Definitions
1-15-7-2: Fiduciary Duty
1-15-7-3: Improper Influence
1-15-7-4: Village Owned Property
1-15-7-5: Use Or Disclosure Of Confidential Information
1-15-7-6: Conflicts Of Interest; Appearance Of Impropriety
1-15-7-7: Representation Of Other Persons
1-15-7-8: Postemployment Restrictions On Assistance And Representation
1-15-7-9: Interest In Village Business
1-15-7-10: Contract Inducements
1-15-7-11: Invalid Actions
1-15-8: Solicitation Of Contributions On Or Through Village Property
1-15-1: POLICY STATEMENT:
It is the policy of the village that, in all cases, its elected and appointed
officials, employees and board, commission and committee members perform their
duties for the benefit of the citizens of the village. They shall conduct the
government of the village with integrity and impartiality, without allowing
prejudice, favoritism, or the opportunity for personal gain to influence their
decisions or actions or to interfere with serving the public interest.
Therefore, all such persons should avoid accepting or retaining any economic
benefits or opportunities that could impair or represent an actual threat to
the exercise of independent judgment. It is further policy of the Village that
all appearances of impropriety shall be avoided. The Village Board of Trustees
has determined that the provisions and purpose of this section set forth
ethical principals and regulations applicable to public officials and employees
in the Village of Oak Lawn. Furthermore, it has been determined that this
section will contribute to the public confidence in the integrity, ability, and
performance of public officials in the Village. (Ords. 00-19-60, 20-09-24)
1-15-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise indicated, shall apply to
all elected village officials, all appointed village officials, all village
employees and all members of boards, commissions and committees who serve with
compensation. Said individuals shall be collectively referred to throughout
this chapter as the "covered individuals". (Ord. 00-19-60)
1-15-3: RESPONSIBILITIES OF PUBLIC OFFICE/EMPLOYMENT:
The covered individuals are agents of public purpose and hold office for the
benefit of the public. They are bound to uphold the constitution of the United
States Of America and the constitution of the state of Illinois and to carry
out impartially the laws of the United States Of America, the state of Illinois
and the village.
All covered individuals shall abide by and act in conformance with all state
statutes which address the conduct of the officers and employees of
municipalities including, but not limited to, the following statutory
provisions, to the extent applicable to the respective covered individuals:
   A.   The general prohibited interests in contracts provisions of the
Illinois municipal code - 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-55-10;
   B.   The misconduct provisions of the Illinois municipal code - 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-55-15;
   C.   The official misconduct provisions of the Illinois criminal code - 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/33-3;
   D.   The public contracts provisions of the Illinois criminal code - 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/33E-1 through 50/33E-13;
   E.   The public officer prohibited activities act - 50 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 105/0.01 et seq.; and
   F.   Disclosure of economic interests - 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 420/3-
301 et seq. (Ord. 00-19-60)
1-15-4: CHAPTER UPDATES:
The village's legislative, license, and ethics committee is charged with the
duty to review the ethics code ordinances adopted by other municipalities and
ethics code suggestions brought forward by the citizens of the village. Based
upon said review, the legislative, license, and ethics committee shall make
recommendations to the president and board of trustees relative to adding
additional sections to this chapter. (Ords. 00-19-60, 13-09-29)
1-15-5: STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT:
   A.   The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the state
officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et
seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this section), are hereby adopted
by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the village
to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5.
   B.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   C.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the act, is hereby prohibited.
   D.   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   E.   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   F.   To the extent allowed by law, the penalties for violations of this
section shall be the same as those penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 430/50-5 for similar violations of the act.
   G.   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   H.   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   I.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois supreme court.
   J.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act; or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 04-09-43)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 - 10-40.
1-15-5-1: ALLEGATIONS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT AGAINST AN ELECTED OFFICIAL BY AN
ELECTED OFFICIAL:
   A.   Pursuant to Section 70-5 of the Act, elected Village officials are
encouraged to promptly report claims of sexual harassment by another elected
official. Every effort should be made to file such complaints as soon as
possible., while facts are known, and potential witnesses are available. If the
elected official feels comfortable doing so, he or she should directly inform
the harassing individual that the individual's conduct or communication is
offensive and must stop.
   B.   This Section
1-15-5-1 through
1-15-5-3 of the Village Code of Oak Lawn, as amended from time to time, shall
not supersede or otherwise affect existing anti-harassment policies applicable
to any other Village officer, appointed official, employee, or contractor.
(Ord. 20-09-24)
1-15-5-2: REPORTING CLAIMS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT FOR ELECTED OFFICIALS:
All complaints of sexual harassment against an elected official by another
elected official shall be registered with the Village Attorney in writing. The
Village attorney shall provide the President and Board of Trustees with notice
that an allegation of sexual harassment has been filed by one elected official
against another. Reports of sexual harassment will be confidential to the
greatest extent possible. (Ord. 20-09-24)
1-15-5-3: INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS MADE AGAINST AN
ELECTED OFFICIAL BY AN ELECTED OFFICIAL:
   A.   When a complaint of sexual harassment has been registered with the
Village Attorney, the Village Attorney shall inform the Village President and
Board of Trustees of said complaint. Upon receiving notice of said complaint,
the Village President and the Board of Trustees shall appoint a qualified law
firm or independent counsel with experience in workplace investigations to
conduct an independent review of the allegations. The independent legal counsel
shall investigate the complaint and during such investigation shall keep his or
her investigation confidential to the greatest extent possible. The
investigator shall prepare a written report determining whether the complaint
was founded or unfounded and the investigator shall submit it to the Village
President and Board of Trustees.
   B.   In the instance where the independent legal counsel renders a report
finding a violation of the Village's sexual harassment policy the report shall
also contain recommended remedies and methods to ensure future compliance with
the policy. If the investigator finds that the elected official that is the
subject of the investigation has engaged in sexual harassment, the matter will
be addressed in accordance with the authority of the Board. (20-09-24)
1-15-6: HIRING AND CONTRACT DECISIONS:
All hiring and contract decisions made by the president and village board, and
the village manager, shall be made with transparency. Specifically, the
following requirements shall be adhered to in such decisions:
   A.   All elected and appointed officials, board or commission members, and
all Village employees shall adhere to the provisions of Section 3.1-15-15 of
the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-1-1, et seq., as amended.
   B.   All elected and appointed officials, board or commission members, and
all Village employees shall adhere to the provisions of Section 2 of the Public
Officer Prohibited Activities Act, 50 ILCS 105/0.01, et seq.
   C.   All elected and appointed officials, board or commission members, and
all Village employees, and all contracts or agreements entered into by the
Village, shall adhere to the provisions of Section 3, 3.1, and 3.2 of the
Public Officer Prohibited Activities Act, 50 ILCS 105/0.01, et seq., as
amended, and to Section 3.1-55-10 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-
1-1, et seq., as amended. (Ords. 13-08-26, 20-09-24)
1-15-7: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND IMPROPER INFLUENCE:
1-15-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply for purposes of this section
1-15-7:
ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION: Any decision on, or any proposal, consideration,
enactment or making of any rule, regulation, or any other official
nonministerial action or nonaction by any village department, village
commission, or by any official or employee of any village department, or any
matter which is within the official jurisdiction of the village manager's
office.
AGENCY: The corporate authorities of the village of Oak Lawn, any committee or
other subdivision thereof, any village department or other administrative unit,
commission, board, or other division of the government of the village.
COMPENSATION: Money, thing of value or other pecuniary benefit received or to
be received in return for, or as reimbursement for, services rendered or to be
rendered.
CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY: Personal involvement in or direct supervisory
responsibility for the formulation or execution of a village contract,
including, without limitation, the preparation of specifications, evaluation of
bids or proposals, negotiation of contract terms or supervision of performance.
COVERED RELATIVE: The spouse or domestic partner of any official, candidate for
village office, or employee, or the immediate family, and relatives residing in
the same residence with the official, candidate for village office, or
employee.
DOING BUSINESS: Any one or any combination of sales, purchases, leases or
contracts to, from or with the village or any village department in an amount
in excess of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in any twelve (12) consecutive
months.
EMPLOYEE: An individual employed by the village, whether part time or full
time, but excludes elected officials, the village manager, department heads,
and village contractors.
EXPENDITURE: A payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, or gift of money
or anything of value.
FINANCIAL INTEREST: An interest held by an official or employee that is valued
or capable of valuation in monetary terms with a current value of more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), provided that such interest shall not include: a)
the authorized compensation paid to an official or employee for any office or
employment; b) a time or demand deposit in a financial institution; or c) an
endowment or insurance policy or annuity contract purchased from an insurance
company; or d) any ownership through purchase at fair market value or
inheritance of the shares of a mutual fund corporation, regardless of the value
of or dividends on such shares, if such shares are registered on a securities
exchange pursuant to the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended; or e) any
ownership through purchase at fair market value or inheritance of not more than
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) worth of the shares of a corporation, or
any corporate subsidiary, parent or affiliate thereof, regardless of the
dividends on such shares, if such shares are registered on a securities
exchange pursuant to the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. Such
interest also shall not include any ownership by a current official or employee
through purchase at fair market value or inheritance of less than one percent
(1%) of the shares of a corporation, or any corporate subsidiary, parent or
affiliate thereof, regardless of the value or dividends on such shares, if such
shares are registered on a securities exchange pursuant to the securities
exchange act of 1934, as amended, and if such ownership existed before November
1, 2012.
GIFT: Anything of value given without fair market consideration.
LEGISLATION: Any ordinance, resolution, amendment, nomination, report or any
other matter pending or proposed before the board of trustees or a committee
thereof or any appointed village board, including any other matter which may be
the subject of board action.
LEGISLATIVE ACTION: The introduction, sponsorship, consideration, debate,
amendment, passage, defeat, approval, veto or other official action or
nonaction on any ordinance, resolution, motion, order, appointment, application
or other matter pending or proposed before the village board or any committee
or subcommittee thereof.
PERSON: Any individual, entity, corporation, partnership, firm, association,
union, trust, estate, as well as any parent or subsidiary of any of the
foregoing, whether or not operated for profit.
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: Services in any occupation requiring advanced or
specialized education and training, including, without limitation, law,
accounting, insurance, real estate, engineering, medicine, architecture,
dentistry, banking, finance, public relations, education or consulting.
RELATIVE: A person who is related to an official, candidate for village office,
or employee as spouse or as any of the following, whether by blood or by
adoption: parent, child, brother or sister, aunt or uncle, niece or nephew,
grandparent, grandchild, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-
law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather or stepmother, stepson or
stepdaughter, stepbrother or stepsister, half-brother or half- sister.
SEEKING TO DO BUSINESS:
   A.   Taking any action within the past six (6) months to obtain a contract
or business from the village when, if such action were successful, it would
result in the person's doing business with the village; and
   B.   The contract or business sought has not been awarded to any person.
VILLAGE: The village of Oak Lawn.
VILLAGE CONTRACTOR: Any person (including his or her agents or employees acting
within the scope of their employment) who is paid from the general fund of the
village or any other special fund of the village or pursuant to village
ordinance, for services to the village, regardless of the nature of the
relationship of such individual to the village. For purposes other than this
chapter a "village contractor" shall not include officials and employees.
VILLAGE OFFICIAL: Any elected official in the village of Oak Lawn, the village
manager, any person appointed to a village commission, committee, or board, and
all department heads.
VILLAGE PROPERTY: Any building or portion thereof owned or exclusively leased
by the village. "Village property" does not, however, include any portion of a
building that is rented or leased from the village by a private person or
entity. (Ord. 13-17-64)
1-15-7-2: FIDUCIARY DUTY:
Village officials and employees shall at all times in the performance of their
public duties owe a fiduciary duty to the village. (Ord. 13-17-64)
1-15-7-3: IMPROPER INFLUENCE:
   A.   No village official, department head, or employee shall make,
participate in making or in any way attempt to use his or her position to
influence any village governmental decision or action in which he or she knows
or has reason to know that he or she has any financial interest distinguishable
from its effect on the public generally, or from which he or she has derived
any income or compensation during the preceding twelve (12) months or from
which he or she reasonably expects to derive any income or compensation in the
following twelve (12) months.
   B.   No village official or department head, or any person acting at the
direction of such village official or department head, shall contact either
orally or in writing any other village official, department head, or employee
with respect to any matter involving any person with whom the elected official
or department head has any business relationship that creates a financial
interest on the part of the official or department head, or the domestic
partner or spouse of the official or department head, or from whom or which he
or she has derived any income or compensation during the preceding twelve (12)
months or from whom or which he or she reasonably expects to derive any income
or compensation in the following twelve (12) months. In addition, no elected
official or department head may participate in any discussion in any village
committee hearing or meeting or in any village board meeting or vote on any
matter involving the person with whom the elected official or department head
has any business relationship that creates a financial interest on the part of
the official or department head, or the domestic partner or spouse of the
official or department head, or from whom or which he or she has derived any
income or compensation during the preceding twelve (12) months or from whom or
which he reasonably expects to derive any income or compensation in the
following twelve (12) months. (Ords. 13-17-64, 19-28-95)
1-15-7-4: VILLAGE OWNED PROPERTY:
No village official or employee shall engage in or permit the unauthorized use
of village owned property. (Ord. 13-17-64)
1-15-7-5: USE OR DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
No current or former village officials or employees shall use or disclose,
other than in the performance of his or her official duties and
responsibilities, or as may be required by law, confidential information gained
in the course of or by reason of his or her position or employment. For
purposes of this section, "confidential information" means any information that
may not be obtained pursuant to the Illinois freedom of information act, as
amended. (Ord. 13-17-64)
1-15-7-6: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST; APPEARANCE OF IMPROPRIETY:
   A.   No village official, department head, or employee shall make or
participate in the making of any governmental decision with respect to any
matter in which he or she has any financial interest distinguishable from that
of the general public, or from which he or she has derived any income or
compensation during the preceding twelve (12) months or from which he or she
reasonably expects to derive any income or compensation in the following twelve
(12) months.
   B.   1. Any elected or appointed official who has any financial interest
distinguishable from that of the general public or all trustees in any matter
pending before the village board or any board committee, or from which he or
she has derived any income or compensation during the preceding twelve (12)
months or from which he or she reasonably expects to derive any income or
compensation in the following twelve (12) months shall publicly disclose the
nature and extent of such interest on the records of proceedings of the village
board, and shall also notify the village clerk of such interest within ninety
six (96) hours of delivery by the village clerk to the member, of the
introduction of any ordinance, resolution, order or other matter to be
considered by the village board, or as soon thereafter as the member is or
should be aware of such potential conflict of interest. The village clerk shall
make such disclosures available for public inspection and copying immediately
upon receipt. He or she shall abstain from voting on the matter but shall be
counted present for purposes of a quorum. The obligation to report a potential
conflict of interest under this subsection arises as soon as the member of the
village board is or should be aware of such potential conflict.
      2.   To avoid even an appearance of impropriety, any member of the
village board who has any business relationship that creates a financial
interest on the part of such member, or the domestic partner or spouse of such
member, with a person or entity with a matter pending before the village board
or any village committee or commission, or from whom or which he or she has
derived any income or compensation during the preceding twelve (12) months or
from whom or which he or she reasonably expects to derive any income or
compensation in the following twelve (12) months, shall publicly disclose the
nature of such business relationship or income or compensation on the records
of proceedings of the village board, and shall also notify the village clerk of
such relationship within ninety six (96) hours of delivery by the village clerk
to the member, of the introduction of any ordinance, resolution, order or other
matter before the village board, or as soon thereafter as the member is or
should be aware of such potential conflict of interest. The village clerk shall
make such disclosures available for public inspection and copying immediately
upon receipt. He or she shall abstain from voting on the matter but shall be
counted present for purposes of a quorum. The obligation to report a potential
conflict of interest under this subsection arises as soon as the member of the
village board is or should be aware of such potential conflict. For purposes of
this subsection B2 only: "matter pending before the village board or any
council committee" shall refer to any action involving the award of loan funds,
grant funds or bond proceeds, bond inducement ordinances, leases, land sales,
zoning matters, or the creation of tax increment financing districts. (Ords.
13-17-64, 19-28-95)
1-15-7-7: REPRESENTATION OF OTHER PERSONS:
   A.   No village official, department head, or employee may represent, or
derive any income or compensation from the representation of, any person other
than the village in any formal or informal proceeding or transaction before any
village commission or board in which the commission's or board's action or
nonaction is of a nonministerial nature; provided that nothing in this
subsection shall preclude any employee from performing the duties of his or her
employment, or any village official or department head from appearing without
compensation before any village commission or board on behalf of the residents
of Oak Lawn in the course of his or her duties as a village official or
department head.
   B.   No village official, department head, or employee may derive any income
or compensation from the representation of any person, in any judicial or
quasi-judicial proceeding before any administrative agency or court in which
the village is a party and that person's interest is adverse to that of the
village. (Ords. 13-17-64, 19-28-95)
1-15-7-8: POSTEMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS ON ASSISTANCE AND REPRESENTATION:
   A.   No former village official or employee shall assist or represent any
person other than the village in any judicial or administrative proceeding
involving the village if the official or employee participated personally and
substantially in the proceeding during his or her term of office or employment.
   B.   No former village official or employee shall, for a period of one year
after the termination of the official's or employee's term of office or
employment, assist or represent any person in any business transaction
involving the village, if the official or employee participated personally and
substantially in the subject matter of the transaction during his or her term
of office or employment; provided, that if the official or employee exercised
contract management authority with respect to a contract this prohibition shall
be permanent as to that contract.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to restrict a former village
official's or employee's activities on behalf of, and while employed by,
another government agency. (Ord. 13-17-64)
1-15-7-9: INTEREST IN VILLAGE BUSINESS:
   A.   No village official, department head, or employee shall have a
financial interest in his or her own name or in the name of any other person in
any contract, work or business of the village, or in the sale of any article,
whenever the expense, price or consideration of the contract, work, business or
sale is paid with funds belonging to or administered by the village, or is
authorized by ordinance; provided, however, for purposes of this subsection,
any of the following shall not constitute a financial interest in any contract,
work or business of the village:
      1.   Ownership of less than one percent (1%) of the outstanding common
stock in any entity or its parent, subsidiary or affiliate, regardless of the
value of dividends paid or accrued on such stock, and such stock is registered
on a securities exchange pursuant to the securities exchange act of 1934, as
amended;
      2.   Compensation for property taken pursuant to the village's eminent
domain power; and
      3.   Any interest of a relative which interest is related to or derived
from the relative's independent occupation, business or profession.
   B.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, no village
official, department head, or employee who has contract management authority
over any contract, work or business of the village shall have a financial
interest in any entity which is a contractor, subcontractor, or otherwise a
party to that contract, work or business.
   C.   Unless sold pursuant to a process of competitive bidding following
public notice, no village official, department head, or employee shall have a
financial interest in the purchase of any property that: 1) belongs to the
village, or 2) is sold for taxes or assessments, or 3) is sold by virtue of
legal process at the suit of the village. (Ords. 13-17-64, 19-28-95)
1-15-7-10: CONTRACT INDUCEMENTS:
   A.   No payment, gratuity or offer of employment shall be made in connection
with any village contract, by or on behalf of a subcontractor to the prime
contractor or higher tier subcontractor or any person associated therewith, as
an inducement for the award of a subcontract or order.
   B.   No village official, department head, or employee shall exercise
contract management authority where any relative or the domestic partner of the
official, department head, or employee is employed by or has contracts with
persons doing village work over which the village official, department head, or
employee has or exercises contract management authority.
   C.   No village official, department head, or employee shall use or permit
the use of his or her position to assist any relative, or his or her domestic
partner in securing employment or contracts with persons over whom the
employee, department head, or official exercises contract management authority.
The employment of or contracting with a relative or domestic partner of such a
village official, department head, or employee by such a person within six (6)
months prior to, during the term of, or six (6) months subsequent to the period
of a village contract shall be evidence that said employment or contract was
obtained in violation of this chapter. (Ords. 13-17-64, 19-28-95)
1-15-7-11: INVALID ACTIONS:
All village contracts shall include a provision requiring compliance with this
chapter. Any contracts negotiated, entered into, or performed in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be voidable as to the village. Any
permit, license, ruling, determination or other official action of a village
department or commission applied for or in any other manner sought, obtained or
undertaken in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
invalid and without any force or effect whatsoever. (Ord. 13-17-64)
1-15-8: SOLICITATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS ON OR THROUGH VILLAGE PROPERTY:
No public official, village employee, candidate for an elective office,
officer, employee, or agent of any political organization shall intentionally
solicit, accept, offer, or make contributions (as defined in the Illinois
election code) either in person or electronically on or through the use of
village property.
For purposes of this section "village property" means any building or portion
thereof owned or exclusively leased by the village and all village servers,
software systems, and e-mail systems.
An inadvertent solicitation, acceptance, offer or making of a contribution is
not a violation of this section so long as reasonable and timely action is
taken to return the contribution to its source. (Ord. 15-11-40)
CHAPTER 16
REVOLVING LOAN PROGRAM FOR OAK LAWN BUSINESSES
SECTION:
1-16-1: Village Findings
1-16-2: Funding of Business Loan Program
1-16-3: Loan Application Process
1-16-4: Requirements for Loan Application Approval by the Village
1-16-5: Requirements of Program Contracts with Local Banks
1-16-1: VILLAGE FINDINGS:
The President and Board of Trustees specifically find as follows:
   A.   The Village is a home rule unit of government under article VII,
section 6(a) of the Illinois Constitution and, therefore, has the power to
adopt ordinances related to its government and affairs.
   B.   The Village desires to encourage the development of additional
businesses and the growth of existing businesses to diversify its tax base, to
provide for economic stability, to produce increased tax revenue and to provide
related benefits to the Village.
   C.   The Village desires to take action to preserve the economic viability
of the business community before any decline therein takes place.
   D.   In order to meet these goals, the Village has determined that it should
create a funding mechanism to provide low interest loans to qualifying
businesses for the development of new businesses, and the expansion and/or
redevelopment of existing businesses, within the Village.
   E.   That the aforementioned business loan program pertains to the Village's
government and affairs. (Ord. 94-23-99)
1-16-2: FUNDING OF BUSINESS LOAN PROGRAM:
There is hereby set aside for deposit, in up to two (2) banks within the
Village, the total amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00), for the
purpose of providing a funding source for a revolving low interest business
loan program (hereinafter the "program") within the Village. Except in the case
that only one local bank is interested in participating in the program under
the terms and conditions set forth in this Chapter, or except in the case that
only one local bank offers the lowest interest rate difference increment as
referenced in subsection 1-16-5D2 below, the amount of five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) shall be deposited at each of two (2) local banks for
purposes of providing a funding source for the program. If more than two (2)
local banks are interested in participating in the program, and all are
offering the same interest rate difference increment as referenced in
subsection 1-16-5D2 below, said deposits shall be made as directed by the
Village Board after receipt of a recommendation from the Director of the
Department of Administrative services. If only one local bank is interested in
participating in the program, or if only one local bank offers the lowest
interest rate difference increment as referenced in Section 1-16-5D2 below, the
entire one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) shall be deposited in the one
participating local bank. For purposes of administering deposits under the
program, the Village shall accept requests for participation from local banks
for a period of fifteen (15) days following the adoption of the Ordinance 94-
23-99 enacting this provision of the Village Code. Each participating local
bank shall be required to enter into a contract with the Village, in a form
acceptable to and approved by the Village Board, prior to any deposit of funds
at such local bank relative to the program. (Ord. 94-23-99)
1-16-3: LOAN APPLICATION PROCESS:
Loan applications shall be available from, and shall be initially filed with,
the Village's Department of Administrative Services. If the Director of the
Department of Administrative Services, or his/her designee, determines that the
Village criteria for program participation have been met, the applicant shall
be directed to one of the local banks that are participating in the program.
Said local bank shall be advised in writing by the Director of the Department
of Administrative Services, or his/her designee, of the Village's approval of
said applicant. The applicant shall then complete all additional application
materials as may be requested by the local bank processing the application.
Approval of an application by the Village shall not prevent a participating
local bank from rejecting an applicant for program participation if said
applicant fails to meet the loan issuance criteria of said local bank.
Application forms will be available effective January 16, 1995. Applications
shall be accepted and processed by the Village, on a "first come, first-served"
basis, beginning January 31, 1995. (Ord. 94-23-99)
1-16-4: REQUIREMENTS FOR LOAN APPLICATION APPROVAL BY THE VILLAGE:
No application for a loan under the program shall be approved by the Village
unless the applicant meets the following criteria:
   A.   The business project to be financed with the loan must be located
within the Village.
   B.   The items to be financed by the loan are limited to:
      1.   The acquisition of real property;
      2.   The construction of a new building;
      3.   The construction of an addition to an existing building;
      4.   The remodeling or reconstruction of an existing building;
      5.   The construction of additional parking areas in relation to the
business;
      6.   The purchase of business related equipment; or
      7.   The purchase of business related fixtures.
Loans shall not be approved for the refinancing of existing indebtedness
relative to any of the aforementioned items.
   C.   No money is due and owing the Village from the applicant, the business
or in regard to the property in relation to which the loan is being sought.
   D.   The requested loan is for not less than twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) and not more than one hundred fifty thousand dollars
($150,000.00).
   E.   The requested loan must be for a project that will either increase the
amount of local tax revenue generated by the property in relation to which the
loan is being sought, or increase the number of employment opportunities
generated by the business on said property. In this regard, the loan applicant
shall be required to set forth in the loan application the nature and amount of
the anticipated additional local tax revenue and/or jobs that will be generated
as a result of the loan.
   F.   All necessary business licenses have been obtained by the applicant
relative to the proposed business.
   G.   The property in relation to which the loan is being sought and the
proposed/existing business use of said property are in compliance with all
applicable Village codes and ordinances.
In the event that an application for a business license is pending, or a
petition for a variation from certain of the Village's codes and ordinances has
been filed with the Village, the Director of Administrative Services, or his/
her designee, may put a hold on the amount of funds requested by the applicant,
for a period of not more than ninety (90) days, to allow the applicant time to
satisfy the conditions set forth in subsections F and/or G above. (Ord. 94-23-
99)
1-16-5: REQUIREMENTS OF PROGRAM CONTRACTS WITH LOCAL BANKS:
Each contract with a local bank that desires to participate in the program
shall provide, but not be limited to, the following terms and conditions:
   A.   Loans provided by the bank as part of the program shall be subject to
an interest rate equal to the Wall Street prime rate at the time of the
issuance of the loan, minus three percent (3.0%). For example, if the Wall
Street prime rate is eight percent (8.0%), a loan pursuant to the program would
be issued by the bank at five percent (5.0%).
   B.   The term of a loan under the program shall not exceed five (5) years.
   C.   Loans issued pursuant to the program shall have monthly amortization of
principal and interest.
   D.   The Village shall receive interest on the funds deposited by the
Village at the bank, relative to the program, as follows:
      1.   The amount deposited shall initially earn interest at the bank's
interest rate for money market accounts.
      2.   When a loan is issued under the program, that portion of the amount
deposited by the Village equal to the outstanding principal amount of the loan
shall earn interest at a rate equal to the loan interest rate, minus the
increment agreed to by the bank, provided said increment shall not be more than
three percent (3%). The remaining "unloaned" portion of the amount deposited by
the Village shall continue to earn interest at the bank's interest rate for
money market accounts. As loan principal payments are received on a monthly
basis, and as additional loans are made, the amount of the Village's deposit
subject to the money market rate of interest shall be increased/decreased
accordingly on a monthly basis.
   E.   The Village's deposit at the bank relative to the program shall not be
used as security for any loan given by the bank under the program, and any
default by any recipient of a loan under the program shall not be offset
against the Village funds on deposit at the bank.
   F.   To the extent that the Village's deposit of funds at the bank, relative
to the program, exceeds one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), the deposit
shall be collateralized by the bank using U.S. government securities as the
collateral.
   G.   The bank shall provide the Village with monthly account statements
relative to the Village's funds on deposit at the bank.
   H.   The bank shall provide the Village with quarterly status reports
relative to the loans issued by the bank in regard to the program.
   I.   The bank shall prepare, and file with the appropriate governmental
agency when necessary, all required documentation relative to each loan issued
by the bank.
   J.   The Village shall not be charged any servicing fees by the bank
relative to the program generally, or relative to any loan issued by the bank
pursuant to the program. (Ord. 94-23-99)
CHAPTER 17
GENERAL VILLAGE POLICIES
SECTION:
1-17-1: Nondiscrimination Policy
1-17-1: NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY:
It is hereby declared the policy of the Village that in conducting the business
of the Village there shall be no discrimination based on race, color, national
origin, age, handicap, sex or religion. A copy of this policy shall be posted
at various locations throughout the buildings owned by the Village so that the
employees of the Village are made aware of this policy. The Village's Grant
Administrator, who is responsible for the Village's interaction with the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development relative to the Community
Development Block Grant Program, shall be the employee designated to oversee
the Village's compliance with this policy including, but not limited to,
routinely determining if any complaints against the Village have been filed
with either the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or the Illinois
Department of Human Rights. (Ord. 96-15-73)
CHAPTER 18
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
1-18-1: Findings
1-18-2: Designation
1-18-3: Powers
1-18-1: FINDINGS:
Pursuant to public hearings held on June 22, 1999, the President and Board of
Trustees hereby find that it is essential to the economic and social welfare of
the Village that business districts be maintained and revitalized by assuring
opportunities for development or redevelopment and by attracting sound and
stable commercial growth, thereby enhancing the tax base of the Village and
employment opportunities within the Village. (Ord. 99-11-24)
1-18-2: DESIGNATION:
The President and Board of Trustees may designate specific areas of the Village
as business districts when they find that such a designation will facilitate
the maintenance and revitalization of the area in accordance with Section
1-18-2 of this Chapter. (Ord. 99-11-24)
1-18-3: POWERS:
In carrying out development or redevelopment within a designated business
district, the President and Board shall have those powers set forth in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.3-3. In addition, the President and Board of
Trustees may exercise such other powers to facilitate development and
redevelopment within a designated business district as deemed necessary
pursuant to the Village's home rule powers as provided by article VII, section
6 of the 1970 Illinois Constitution. (Ord. 99-11-24)
CHAPTER 19
PUBLIC RECORDS
SECTION:
1-19-1: Purpose
1-19-2: Definitions
1-19-3: Freedom Of Information Act
1-19-4: Duplication Costs
1-19-5: Special Service Fee
1-19-6: Original Village Records
1-19-1: PURPOSE:
The Village is incorporated to serve the residents of the Village and to
transact business for the public. The records of these public transactions
shall be open to inspection and review by the public unless there is a
compelling reason for keeping a record private. The purpose of this chapter is
to provide practices and procedures for members of the general public to
receive access to public records of the Village in compliance with the
provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/
1 et seq. (Ord. 03-02-09)
1-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of the terms "public records", "records", "person", and
"copying" as used in this chapter shall be found in section 2 of the Freedom of
Information Act 1 , as amended. (Ord. 03-02-09)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/2.
1-19-3: FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT:
Effective January 1, 2010:
   A.   The rules and regulations regarding the Freedom of Information Act 1 ,
as amended, are as follows:
      1.   The Village Clerk is designated as the person to whom all initial
requests for access to the records of the Village are to be referred. Such
requests are to be made at the offices of the Village at 9446 South Raymond
Avenue, Oak Lawn, Illinois, between the hours of eight thirty o'clock (8:30)
A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M., Monday through Friday. In the event that the
Village Clerk is not available during the times described above, the Deputy
Clerk or his/her designee is designated as the person(s) to whom such initial
requests are to be made.
      2.   Any records which are the subject of a request under the Freedom of
Information Act shall be retrieved from such place as they are stored, by the
Village Clerk or Deputy Clerk or his/her designee or by an employee of the
Village acting under the direction of the Village Clerk, Deputy Clerk or his/
her designee. In no event shall records be retrieved by the party requesting
them or by any person who is not employed by the Village.
      3.   Any records that are made available for inspection shall be reviewed
at the Office of the Village Clerk located at 9446 South Raymond Avenue, Oak
Lawn, Illinois, second floor, unless otherwise designated by the Village Clerk.
In no event shall any records be removed from the Office of the Village Clerk
or the location where they are being reviewed if not in the Office of the
Village Clerk, by the requesting party.
      4.   If copies of records are requested, the fee for such copies, whether
certified or not, shall be as set forth in section
1-19-4 of this chapter. The Village Clerk shall maintain a written schedule of
current fees in the Clerk's Office. The fees so charged shall reflect the
actual cost of copying the records, and the cost of certifying the copies, if
certification is requested.
      5.   In responding to a request, the Village shall follow the
requirements of the Freedom of Information Act and shall make their records
available for inspection and copying within five (5) working days after receipt
of the request or within any other permitted time period under the Freedom of
Information Act, as amended. Where appropriate, the Village shall deny the
inspection of or copying of any records based upon the provisions of the
Freedom of Information Act, as amended. A copy of the Freedom of Information
Act shall be available at the Village Clerk's Office for inspection and
copying.
      6.   In the event that a request to inspect or copy records is denied,
the denial may be appealed to the Village Manager. Such an appeal must be made
within fourteen (14) days after the requesting party receives the written
notice denying said request. In the absence of the Village Manager, appeals
from denials of requests for access/copies shall be made to the Village
President in the times set forth above.
   B.   The Village Manager is hereby authorized to make any necessary
administrative rules and regulations to implement said Freedom of Information
Act and the request for documents. (Ord. 10-01-01)
 
Notes
1 2. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
1-19-4: DUPLICATION COSTS:
   A.   Copies of public records shall be provided by the Office of the Village
Clerk and fees shall be charged in accordance with the following fee schedule:
      Public record fee:
Letter/legal, black and white copies for No charge
first 50 pages
Letter/legal, black and white copies for $0.15 per page
each page after the first 50 pages
Certification of records                 $1.00 per certification
Police accident reports                  $5.00 per incident
Police accident reconstruction reports   $20.00 per incident
Police incident reports                  $5.00 per report
Photos                                   $1.50 per photo (regular)
Fingerprinting up to 4 cards same        $30.00
affiliation
Large format documents, audiotapes,      Actual cost to the Village, excluding
digital copies, electronic formats,      personnel costs
color copies, videotapes, CDs, DVDs
Voice log transcription to cassette tape $0.50 per tape or CD
or CD
Zoning map                               $10.00 per map
Bound zoning ordinance                   $0.25 per page
Bound subdivision/development ordinance  $0.25 per page
Bound Comprehensive Plan                 $0.25 per page
Bound rules/regulations of the Board of  $0.25 per page
Fire and Police Commissioners
 
   B.   The Freedom of Information Officer may waive or reduce the above fees
upon a finding that the request is in the public interest as set forth in
section 6 of the Freedom of Information Act. (Ord. 18-02-04)
1-19-5: SPECIAL SERVICE FEE:
In those instances where records are requested to be copied and mailed or sent
by facsimile or messenger delivery in a time period that is less than the
required response period under the Freedom of Information Act, as amended, the
Village shall charge the requesting party a flat fee of fifteen dollars
($15.00) for such "special service", in addition to the actual cost of copying
and transmitting the records to the requesting party. In requesting "special
service", the requester shall submit to the Village Clerk a written request for
"special service" stating that the requester consents to the fifteen dollar
($15.00) charge for such "special service", in addition to the ancillary
copying and transmitting charges. (Ord. 03-02-09)
1-19-6: ORIGINAL VILLAGE RECORDS:
So as to prevent the loss of original Village records, documents, videotapes
and audiotapes, the removal of original Village records, documents, videotapes
and audiotapes from the Village building at which they are located shall be
subject to the following conditions:
   A.   Original minutes, audio recordings and video recordings of meetings of
the Village Board or any board, committee, commission or subcommission of the
Village shall not be removed from the Village building at which they are
located except pursuant to a court subpoena, or upon the direction of the
Village Clerk or Deputy Clerk or his/her designee for purposes of reproduction.
   B.   All original Village records, documents, videotapes and audiotapes, as
maintained by the Village, except those specified in subsection A of this
section, may only be removed from the Village building at which they are
located by an officer or employee of the Village and only after said officer or
employee has evidenced the removal of said original Village record, document,
videotape and/or audiotape in writing on a form provided by the Village Clerk.
   C.   The Village Clerk shall develop a logging system to keep track of
original Village records, documents, videotapes and audiotapes, maintained by
the Village, that are removed from Village Hall, the Village Clerk's Office or
any other Village building pursuant to subsection B of this section.
   D.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, original Village records, documents,
videotapes and audiotapes, maintained by the Village Clerk's Office, may be
transferred from one Village building to another, if Village business so
requires, by Village officers and/or employees, but shall be returned to their
original location at the end of each business day unless there is compliance
with subsection B of this section. (Ord. 03-02-09)
CHAPTER 20
REMOTE ATTENDANCE POLICY
SECTION:
1-20-1: Policy Statement
1-20-2: Prerequisites
1-20-3: Authorization To Participate
1-20-4: Minutes
1-20-5: Rights Of Remote Member
1-20-6: Meetings
1-20-7: Closed Meetings
1-20-8: Committees, Boards And Commissions
1-20-1: POLICY STATEMENT:
It is the policy of the village of Oak Lawn that any member of the board of
trustees may attend and participate in any open or closed meeting of the board
of trustees from a remote location via telephone, video or internet connection,
provided that such attendance and participation is in compliance with this
policy and any other applicable laws. (Ord. 12-05-15)
1-20-2: PREREQUISITES:
   A.   The member should notify the village clerk at least twenty four (24)
hours before the meeting, unless impractical, so that necessary communications
equipment can be arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical
arrangements when practical will result in denial of a request for remote
attendance.
   B.   The member must assert one of the following four (4) reasons why he or
she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
      1.   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or disability;
or
      2.   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the village of Oak Lawn; or
      3.   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
      4.   The member cannot attend because of unexpected childcare
obligations. (Ord. 12-05-15, 23-21-77)
1-20-3: AUTHORIZATION TO PARTICIPATE:
After a roll call establishing that a quorum is physically present, any member
present may move that a member be permitted to participate remotely, specifying
the reason entitling the absent member to participate remotely. All of the
members physically present are permitted to vote on whether remote
participation will be allowed. The motion must be approved by a vote of a
majority of the quorum. (Ord. 12-05-15)
1-20-4: MINUTES:
Any member participating remotely shall be considered an off site participant
and counted as present by means of video or audio conference, for that meeting
if the member is allowed to participate. The meeting minutes shall also reflect
and state specifically whether each member is physically present, present by
video, or present by audio means. (Ord. 12-05-15)
1-20-5: RIGHTS OF REMOTE MEMBER:
A member permitted to participate remotely will be able to express his or her
comments during the meeting and participate in the same capacity as those
members physically present, subject to all general meeting guidelines and
procedures previously adopted and adhered to. The remote member shall be heard,
considered, and counted as to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any
remote member shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote
counted and recorded by the clerk and placed in the minutes for the
corresponding meeting. A member participating remotely may leave a meeting and
return as in the case of any member. (Ord. 12-05-15)
1-20-6: MEETINGS:
The term meeting as used herein refers to any gathering, whether in person or
by video or audio conference, telephone call, electronic means (such as,
without limitation, electronic mail, electronic chat, and instant messaging),
or other means of contemporaneous interactive communication, of a majority of a
quorum of the members of a public body held for the purposes of discussing
public business. (Ord. 12-05-15)
1-20-7: CLOSED MEETINGS:
A quorum of the board of trustees must be physically present at any closed
meeting. Members participating remotely shall otherwise be entitled to
participate in closed meetings by video or audio conference, in the same manner
as at an open meeting. (Ord. 12-05-15)
1-20-8: COMMITTEES, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS:
This policy shall apply to all committees, boards and commissions established
by authority of the village of Oak Lawn. However, when remote attendance is
possible only by audio connection, and an off site member will be unable to
view visual exhibits or demonstrations which may influence a decision by the
committee, board or commission, remote attendance should not be approved. (Ord.
12-05-15)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING AND PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Established, Function
2-1-2: Jurisdiction And Authority
2-1-3: Membership, Appointments, Terms Of Office
2-1-4: Compensation
2-1-5: Meetings And Rules
2-1-6: Additional Staff, Duties
2-1-7: Zoning Amendments, Variations And Special Uses
2-1-7-1: Public Hearings
2-1-7-2: Variation Petitions
2-1-7-3: Recommendations Of The Commission
2-1-7-4: Action By Board Of Trustees
2-1-8: Fee Schedule
2-1-9: Historic Designation
2-1-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED, FUNCTION:
There is hereby established a Zoning and Planning Commission, replacing the
Planning and Development Commission.
The basic functions of the Zoning and Planning Commission are to oversee the
implementation of the Master Plan, to hear requests for deviations from the
Master Plan and to decide on certain requests related thereto and/or to make
recommendations to the Board of Trustees on such requests. Further, it shall be
the function of the Zoning and Planning Commission to oversee the enforcement
of the subdivision requirements of the Village 1 . (Ords. 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 5 of this Code.
2-1-2: JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY:
The Zoning and Planning Commission is hereby vested with the following
jurisdiction and authority:
   A.   To investigate and make recommendations to the Board of Trustees
concerning the subject matter of amendments or variations or additions to the
Zoning Title 1 , upon its own motion or at the request of the Board of Trustees
or upon petitions filed by one or more owners of property in any district or
portion thereof; except, that portions of the Zoning Title relating to the
appeals function may not be changed by initiative of the Zoning and Planning
Commission.
   B.   To hear all applications for rezoning requests, special uses and/or
variations of use in the manner prescribed by the subject to the standards
established in the Zoning Title and report findings and recommendations to the
Board of Trustees.
   C.   To hear and pass upon applications for planned developments in the
manner prescribed and subject to the procedures and standards established in
the Zoning Title and report such findings and recommendations to the Board of
Trustees.
   D.   To initiate, direct and review, from time to time, studies of one or
more provisions of the Zoning Title and to make reports of such review and
recommendations to the Appeals Board 2  and the Board of Trustees.
   E.   To adhere to the current Master Plan and to recommend only such changes
and variations as are clearly necessary, together with specific reasons for the
recommendations.
   F.   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under the Zoning Title and other ordinances of the Village or
relevant statutes of the State.
   G.   In addition, the Commission shall have the power to require Village
department heads and employees to appear before it and answer questions and
assist the Commission in its recommendations.
      1.   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify historic buildings,
districts, landmarks and structures within the Village.
      2.   To investigate and make recommendations to the Village Board
concerning the adoption of ordinances designating buildings, districts,
landmarks and structures as historic.
      3.   To keep a register of all buildings, districts, landmarks and
structures that have received official historic designation, including all
information required as part of each designation.
      4.   To create an appropriate system of plaques for identification of
historic buildings, districts, landmarks and structures, and make
recommendations for the design and implementation of specific markings and
signage of streets and routes leading from one historic building, district,
landmark and/or structure to another.
      5.   To advise and assist owners of historic buildings, landmarks and
structures in regard to:
         a.   Identifying the State and Federal agencies through which historic
building, landmark and/or structure designation can be applied for and
obtained;
         b.   The preparation of applications for State or Federal historic
building, landmark and/or structure designation;
         c.   Seeking out grant funds that are available for individuals who
desire to restore historic buildings, landmarks and/or structures;
         d.   The preparation of application for said grant funds; and
         e.   The technical aspects of the preservation, renovation,
rehabilitation and restoration of historic buildings, landmarks and/or
structures.
   H.   To participate in the “certified local government” program of the
National Historic Preservation Act, as amended, and the Illinois Historic
Preservation Agency, and carry out any responsibilities delegated to the
Commission under that program.
   I.   To call upon available Village staff members as well as other experts
for technical advice.
   J.   To confer recognition upon the owners of historic buildings, landmarks
and structures for their historic preservation efforts by means of
certificates, plaques, markers or awards.
   K.   To assist in the development, review or amendment of a historic
building, district, landmark and/or structure preservation component in the
Comprehensive Plan of the Village.
   L.   To review and comment upon Village projects or activities affecting
historic buildings, districts, landmarks or structures.
   M.   To undertake any other action or activity necessary or appropriate to
the implementation of its powers and duties, or to implementation of the
purposes of this Chapter, as assigned from time to time by the Village Board.
(Ords. 93-9-24, 94-23-103, 96-14-69, 98-20-92, 19-16-66; 21-19-86)
 
Notes
1 2. See Title 4 of this Code.
2 1. See Chapter 2 of this Title.
2-1-3: MEMBERSHIP, APPOINTMENTS, TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created and established a Zoning and Planning Commission which
shall consist of seven (7) members whereby the President shall appoint one (1)
member and each Village Trustee shall appoint one (1) member from their
district. All appointments, except to vacancies, shall begin on September 1 of
the calendar year. Members of the Zoning and Planning Commission serving as of
the effective date hereof shall serve until the end of the term to which
appointed and until their successors are named and qualified. Effective
September 1, 2019, a full term shall be four (4) years and terms shall be
staggered so not more than three (3) expire each year. Such staggered terms
shall coincide with District 1, 3, and 5 appointees to expire opposite years of
District 2, 4, and 6 appointees. For purposes of this Chapter, such
appointments for District 2, 4, and 6 beginning on September 1, 2019, shall
have initial term limit to end in calendar year 2021 so as to initiate such
staggered
terms. If a vacancy exists following the failure and/or refusal by a Village
Trustee to appoint a member by October 1 of the calendar year, an appointment
shall be made by a recommendation from the President with approval of the
majority of the Village Board.
The President and Board of Trustees may compel attendance of any absent member
and may remove any such member from said Commission if that member misses three
(3) consecutive meetings. The removal shall be initiated by the President and
subject to the confirmation of such removal by the advice and consent of the
Village Board.
The chairman shall be elected annually, at the regular meeting closest to
September 1 of the calendar year, by and from the membership to serve a term of
one year. No member may serve as chairman more than two (2) consecutive terms.
The Commission may designate such other officers as it may by rule prescribe.
The chairman of the Commission may declare that a vacancy exists if a member
has been absent for three (3) consecutive meetings. The adequacy of excuses
offered for absences shall be determined by the chairman. (Ords. 93-9-24, 19-
16-66)
2-1-4: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the Commission shall receive a sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per meeting for every properly posted meeting attended, or such
prorated portion thereof as shall represent the time served in a given calendar
year, with a minimum annual renumeration of $500.00 per member if the member
attends 70% or more of all properly posted meetings. This remuneration is
intended to cover normal and necessary expenses of the member. Additional or
unusual expenses may be covered as budgeted upon receipt of proper evidence of
expenditure and approval by this Commission. (Ords. 93-9-24, 19-16-66, 23-13-
47)
2-1-5: MEETINGS AND RULES:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Meetings shall be held at least monthly on the 1st
and 3rd Mondays, except that the Commission may, by rule, provide for changing
dates for seasonal reasons or in the event there is no pending business. The
Village Manager and/or Director of Community Development may also request to
call a meeting in order to ensure all pending petitions heard by this
Commission in a timely manner.
    B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairman or by
any three (3) members of the Commission.
   C.   Open to the Public: All meetings of the Zoning and Planning Commission
and its subcommittees shall be open meetings as required under the applicable
statutes of the State 1  and the codes of the Village.
   D.   Minutes and Records: The Commission shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating that fact, and shall also keep records of its
examinations and other official acts.
   E.   Robert's Rules of Order: In all cases not covered by the rules herein
or where they are not applicable, the Commission shall be covered by
parliamentary law as laid down in "Robert's Rules of Order" as revised. (Ords.
93-9-24, 19-16-66)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 5 ILCS 120/1.
2-1-6: ADDITIONAL STAFF, DUTIES:
The Director of Community Development and Growth Management shall assign to the
Commission such staff as is necessary to expedite and assist the work of the
Commission. Such staff shall include a competent secretary, who shall be paid
from the funds of the Village at a rate to be established as part of the
Village's salary scale. The staff shall be responsible for but not limited to
the following:
   A.   Keeping accurate records of the work of the Commission and carrying out
required reporting functions.
   B.   Transmission of minutes to all other boards. All members of all boards
specified in the Zoning Title are to receive minutes from all other boards.
   C.   Dissemination of all materials pertinent to assist the Zoning and
Planning Commission in rendering its decisions.
   D.   Jointly submitting staff recommendations for all matters under the
jurisdiction of the Zoning and Planning Commission. Said recommendations may be
given in writing, orally or both.
   E.   Forwarding all recommendations of the Zoning and Planning Commission to
the President and Board of Trustees.
   F.   Providing liaison between the Zoning and Planning Commission and all
other boards.
   G.   Providing technical assistance and any data or research requested by
the Commission.
   H.   Calling to the attention of the Commission, in writing, the need for
additions or corrections to the Zoning Title and suggesting the contents of
such additions and/or corrections. (Ords. 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
2-1-7: ZONING AMENDMENTS, VARIATIONS AND SPECIAL USES:
2-1-7-1: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
A public hearing before the Zoning and Planning Commission is required for each
application for a rezoning, variation of zone, and/or special use and shall be
scheduled not later than sixty (60) days after receipt of the application in
proper form unless petitioner requests a later date. Public hearings shall be
conducted under the general rules for public hearings as set forth in this
Chapter and, as required, shall be conducted by an equally constituted board.
All hearings are open to the public and subject to the notice requirements of
State law and/or this Chapter. Any persons may appear and speak at a hearing,
either in person or by representative. Information, in writing, may be
submitted by any person. The presiding officer at a hearing shall administer
oaths and may compel the attendance of witnesses. The Commission has the power
to subpoena witnesses and relevant materials.
   A.   Application for Hearing: Application for a public hearing shall be
filed, in writing, with the Village administration using such forms as shall be
supplied and required by the Village. The application shall contain such
information as the Zoning and Planning Commission shall, from time to time,
require and shall contain, as a minimum, the address and legal description of
the location for which a public hearing is requested, a statement of the
purpose and reason for the request, names of all owners of the property in
question and the zoning classification in effect, and shall be accompanied by
plans showing the proposed use and effect and extent at the public hearing
requesting.
   B.   Fees: The application for a public hearing shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable filing fee as provided in Section
2-1-8 of this Chapter, payable to the Village.
   C.   Notices:
      1.   Publication: Upon receipt of a properly executed application for
public hearing, the Department of Community Development and Growth Management
shall set a date for public hearing to occur not more than sixty (60) days
after receipt of proper application unless a later date is requested by the
petitioner. The Department of Community Development and Growth Management shall
then place in a qualified newspaper of general circulation in the Village a
legal notice of public hearing. If more than one qualified newspaper of general
circulation is available, the Department of Community Development and Growth
Management shall use the newspaper selected by the petitioner if the petitioner
indicates a preference. Said notice shall contain, as a minimum, the address
and legal description of the property involved, the date, place and time of the
public hearing, the general nature and purpose of the proposed request, and the
name of the appropriate department of the village from which information may be
obtained. Said notice shall be placed not more than thirty (30) nor less than
fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
      2.   Notification To Adjacent Property Owners: At the time of hearing on
the application for public hearing, the Department of Community Development and
Growth Management shall furnish an affidavit setting forth the names and
addresses of the persons who paid the taxes during the last preceding year on
each lot or parcel of property lying within the village, and within three
hundred feet (300') of the boundary lines of the lot or parcel on which a
public hearing is requested, and stating that written notice of the proposed
public hearing has been personally served upon said owners of record at least
seven (7) days prior to the date of the public hearing, or that said notices
have been mailed to said owners of record at least ten (10) days prior to the
date of the public hearing. The affidavit shall further certify that owners of
tax exempt properties within the same boundaries have been notified as
aforesaid. Where such service is by the United States mail, same shall be by
first class mail. This affidavit shall be determined to be proper by the
attorney advisory to the Zoning and Planning Commission before public hearing
can proceed.
      3.   Notification Of Condominium Owners: Where condominium property is
located within the aforementioned three hundred foot (300') notification area,
notice shall be provided in the same manner as set forth above, and the
following notification regulations shall apply:
         a.   If the condominium complex, in its entirety, consists of twelve
(12) or fewer units, notification shall be provided to the taxpayer of record
for each unit.
         b.   If the condominium complex, in its entirety, consists of more
than twelve (12) units, notification shall only be provided to the condominium
association.
      4.   Notification Of Commercial Tenants: Where the petition relates to
nonresidential property, notification as set forth above shall also be
provided, in the same manner as set forth above, to the occupants of the
building or buildings located on the same lot or parcel in relation to which
the petition applies.
      5.   Posting Notice: The petitioner for a public hearing shall cause to
be posted on the subject property in a position conspicuously visible and
readable from the street, not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15)
days prior to the date of the public hearing, a sign of not less than twenty
two inches by twenty eight inches (22" x 28") carrying notice of the
application for change, the purpose of the change and the date, time and place
of the public hearing. The petitioner is required to place only one sign and
shall so certify, by affidavit, under oath, that this has been done. The
petitioner is not required to replace any signs which are removed by others or
vandalized.
      6.   Notification Of Legal Action: When any zoning title rule or
regulation is sought to be declared invalid by means of a declaratory judgment
proceeding, the plaintiff, not more than thirty (30) days before filing suit,
shall serve written notice to all property owners of record in the form and
manner as required of the Department of Community Development and Growth
Management in subsection C2 of this section.
      7.   Zoning Text Amendments: The notice requirements set forth in this
section shall apply to requests for zoning map amendments, variations, and
special uses. With respect to zoning text amendments, the only notice that
shall be required by this code shall be notice by publication, as provided in
subsection C1 of this section.
   D.   Hearing Proceedings:
      1.   Oath Required: All persons testifying on behalf of or against any
application coming before the Zoning and Planning Commission at a public
hearing shall be required to take the following oath before testifying, said
oath to be administered by the presiding officer:
         I hereby swear that I will tell the whole truth and nothing but the
truth on any matter now pending before this Commission.
      2.   Requirements To Speak: Prior to speaking, each person shall give his
or her name and address to the chair. No person refusing to take the oath or
give his or her name shall be permitted to speak.
      3.   Rules Generally: The commission may develop such rules, not in
conflict with applicable state law, the zoning title or the codes of the
village, as it deems necessary. Such rules shall be reduced to writing and
shall be on file and available in the office of the commission. If such rules
pertain to conduct of public hearings, they shall be submitted to the board of
trustees for approval.
      4.   Record Of Hearing:
         a.   The commission shall record, by way of tape recorder, the
proceedings of all public hearings.
         b.   If the petitioner desires to have a court reporter record the
public hearing, it shall be the responsibility of the petitioner to provide and
pay for a certified court reporter to record the proceedings of the public
hearing. Where the petitioner chooses to use a court reporter, one certified
transcript of the proceedings thus recorded shall be provided to the village.
The certified transcript and/or a transcript of the tape recording shall become
a permanent part of the minutes of the public hearing.
         c.   The commission may permit electronic media, such as videotape or
motion picture cameras, with or without accompanying lights if, in its opinion,
it is nondisruptive to the meeting.
      5.   Commission Questions And Opinions: The commission may, at public
hearings, question any persons who appear, but the opinion of members of the
commission shall be held for discussion after completion of the public hearing.
No matter heard at a public hearing may be decided until the commission holds a
regularly scheduled meeting for discussion of the item. The commission may
postpone consideration from time to time, but must act within sixty five (65)
days of the public hearing. If the commission fails to act within sixty five
(65) days, the matter shall be forwarded to the board of trustees without
recommendation.
   E.   Hearings Held At: All public hearings shall be a part of either a
regular or special meeting of the Zoning and Planning Commission. (Ords. 93-9-
24, 94-21-97, 06-12-68, 06-13-81, 19-16-66, 20-14-36)
2-1-7-2: VARIATION PETITIONS:
In the case of all petitions for variations heard by the Zoning and Planning
Commission, which do not require a "public hearing", as defined by section
4-1-6 of this code, the following notice requirements shall apply:
   A.   Newspaper Publication: Not more than thirty (30) days nor less than
fifteen (15) days prior to the meeting date on which the Zoning and Planning
Commission is to hear the variation request, a notice of said variation request
must be published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village. Said notice shall contain, as a minimum, the following
information:
      1.   The common address for the property;
      2.   The date, place and time of the Zoning and Planning Commission
meeting at which the variation request will be heard;
      3.   A brief statement as to the variation being sought; and
      4.   The name of the appropriate department of the village from which
information may be obtained.
The Department of Community Development and Growth Management shall cause the
aforementioned newspaper notice to be published after said department has
determined the date upon which the variation request shall be heard by the
Zoning and Planning Commission.
If more than one qualified newspaper of general circulation is available, the
Department of Community Development and Growth Management shall use the
newspaper selected by the petitioner if the petitioner indicates a preference.
   B.   Affidavit: In addition to the aforementioned newspaper publication, the
Department of Community Development and Growth Management quality control shall
furnish an affidavit setting forth the names and addresses of the persons who
own property abutting upon the applicant's property or separated from the
applicant's property only by an alley, or, in the event that said persons are
unknown to the Department of Community Development and Growth Management, an
affidavit setting forth the names and addresses of the persons who paid the
taxes during the last preceding year on each of the aforementioned properties.
Said affidavit shall state that written notice of the variation request has
been personally served upon the persons named in said affidavit at least seven
(7) days prior to the date upon which the Zoning and Planning Commission is to
hear said variation request, or that said notices have been mailed to said
persons at least ten (10) days prior to the date upon which the Zoning and
Planning Commission is to hear said variation request. Where such service is by
the United States mail, same shall be by first class mail. This affidavit shall
be determined to be proper by the attorney advisory to the Zoning and Planning
Commission before proceeding on the variation petition.
   C.   Notification Of Condominium Owners: Where condominium property is
located within the aforementioned three hundred foot (300') notification area,
the following notification regulations shall apply:
      1.   If the condominium complex, in its entirety, consists of twelve (12)
or fewer units, notification shall be provided to the taxpayer of record for
each unit.
      2.   If the condominium complex, in its entirety, consists of more than
twelve (12) units, notification shall only be provided to the condominium
association.
   D.   Notification Of Commercial Tenants: Where the petition relates to
residential property, notification as set forth above shall also be provided,
in the same manner as set forth above, to the occupants of the building or
buildings located on the same lot or parcel in relation to which the petition
applies. (Ords. 93-9-24, 94-21-97, 19-16-66)
2-1-7-3: RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE COMMISSION:
   A.   Action By Commission: Upon completion of the public hearing, the Zoning
and Planning Commission may consider the petition for action. If the Zoning and
Planning Commission recommends approval of a petition by a unanimous vote of
all commission members present at the meeting at which the vote is taken, the
petition shall automatically be forwarded to the board of trustees for its
consideration and action. For purposes of determining whether the vote is
unanimous, only a nay vote, and not an abstention, shall cause said vote to be
other than unanimous. If the Zoning and Planning Commission recommends approval
of a petition by other than a unanimous vote of all commission members present
at the meeting at which the vote is taken, or if the Zoning and Planning
Commission makes no recommendation as to either approval or denial of the
petition, the petition shall not be forwarded to the board of trustees for its
consideration and action until after the minutes of the meeting at which said
vote was taken are available, even though not yet approved. If the Zoning and
Planning Commission recommends denial of the petition, the petitioner may file
an appeal to the board of trustees within thirty (30) days of the commission's
denial by submitting a letter of request to the village clerk. The hearing
before the board of trustees on the appeal may take place as soon as a copy of
the minutes of the Zoning and Planning Commission meeting at which the denial
of the petition took place is forwarded to the board of trustees, even though
not yet approved. If a letter of request is not received by the village clerk
as stated above, then the Zoning and Planning Commission decision stands and
all proceedings end, unless the petitioner submits a new petition and complies
with all requirements of section
2-1-7-1 of this chapter.
   B.   Records: A copy of every rule or regulation, every amendment and every
order, requirement, decision or determination of the commission shall be filed
in the office of the village clerk and shall be a public record. Filing of a
copy of the corrected minutes of the commission is adequate notice to the
village clerk of action by the commission.
   C.   Review Of Recommendations: Actions of the commission which are subject
to review or confirmation by the board of trustees shall be forwarded in a form
to be authorized by the board of trustees. No action may be taken by the board
of trustees until it has received, in advance of the meeting at which the item
is on the agenda, proper information as required by the procedure it has
established. When a matter acted upon by the Zoning and Planning Commission is
to be heard by the board of trustees, the Zoning and Planning Commission shall
be so informed and shall have the right to speak to the matter, for which
purpose the chairman of the Zoning and Planning Commission shall designate a
member of the commission to serve as spokesman. Where there is significant
minority opinion on the Zoning and Planning Commission the minority may also
designate a spokesman.
Where significant changes are presented by the petitioner, or agreed to in
principle by the board of trustees, the entire matter together with the
suggested changes shall be returned to the Zoning and Planning Commission which
shall act no later than its second meeting after referral.
   D.   Limitations: Where the purpose and effect of a proposed amendment to
the zoning title are to change the zoning classification or seek a variation in
use, the Zoning and Planning Commission shall make findings based upon the
evidence presented to it in each specific case with respect to the following:
      1.   Existing uses of property within the general area of the property in
question.
      2.   The zoning classification of property within the general area of the
property in question.
      3.   The suitability of the property in question for the uses permitted
under the existing and proposed zoning classification.
      4.   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
property in question including changes, if any, which may have taken place
since the property in question was placed in its current zoning classification.
      5.   Relevant history of the property in question. Variations and changes
in use or zoning shall be considered for recommendation by the Zoning and
Planning Commission when they are in complete harmony with the general purpose
and intent of the regulations and only in cases where there are practical
difficulties or particular hardship in the way of carrying out the strict
letter of any of those regulations pertaining to the use, construction or
alteration of buildings or structures or the use of land. In its considerations
of practical difficulties or particular hardship, the Zoning and Planning
Commission shall require evidence that:
         a.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that district; and
         b.   The plight of the owner is caused by unique circumstances; and
         c.   The variation or change, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality; and
         d.   The variation or change, if granted, will not create any
violation of the performance standards of the zoning title 1  or the relevant
environmental laws of the United States and state.
The Zoning and Planning Commission shall not recommend the adoption of a
proposed amendment or a variation unless it finds that the adoption of the
amendment or variation is in the public interest and is not solely in the
interest of the petitioner.
   E.   Recommendations Forwarded: Recommendations of the Zoning and Planning
Commission, in regard to petitions which do not require a public hearing, shall
be forwarded to the village board in the same manner as provided in subsection
A of this section relative to petitions which do require a public hearing.
   F.   Notice Requirements For An Appeal: In the event that a petitioner files
a notice of appeal with the village clerk pursuant to subsection A of this
section, the village clerk shall schedule said appeal for the first village
board meeting occurring at least twenty one (21) days following the filing of
said notice of appeal. The petitioner shall be required to serve each
individual, who appeared as an objector at the commission hearings on the
petitioner's request, with a copy of the notice of appeal and the date of the
village board meeting at which said appeal will be heard. For purposes of
determining who is entitled to said notice, the petitioner shall only be
required to notify those objectors whose names and addresses appear in the
records of the commission relative to the petitioner's request. The petitioner
on appeal shall be required to furnish an affidavit setting forth the names and
addresses of the persons who appeared as objectors at the proceedings before
the commission. The form of said affidavit shall be supplied by the department
of Community Development. Said affidavit shall state that written notice of the
appeal request has been personally served upon the persons named in said
affidavit at least seven (7) days prior to the date upon which the village
board is to hear said appeal request, or that said notices have been mailed to
said persons at least fourteen (14) days prior to the date upon which the
village board is to hear said appeal request. Where such service is by the
United States mail, same shall be by certified or registered mail with return
receipt requested and a copy of said receipt shall be affixed to the affidavit
and made a part thereof. The affidavit shall be determined to be proper by the
village attorney before proceeding on the appeal. (Ords. 93-9-24, 94-21-97, 98-
9-41, 12-15-50, 19-16-66)
2-1-7-4: ACTION BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
The board of trustees shall not act upon a proposed amendment to the zoning
title unless and until it has received a written report and recommendation from
the Zoning and Planning Commission on the proposed amendment or variation,
consistent with subsection
2-1-7-3E of this chapter.
In cases where the Zoning and Planning Commission recommends that a proposed
variation or amendment not be adopted, such amendment or variation shall not be
passed except by the favorable vote of four (4) concurring trustees.
If an application for a proposed amendment or variation is not acted upon
finally by the board of trustees within sixty (60) days of the time of receipt
of the recommendations of the Zoning and Planning Commission, the application
shall be deemed to have been denied.
If a petition is approved by the board of trustees, the following time limits
are allowed for the petitioners to take out permits or otherwise proceed with
the activity approved by the board of trustees, otherwise the approval is null
and void.
   A.   Petitions requiring a public hearing per section
2-1-7-1 of this chapter, except rezonings: One year.
   B.   Planned unit development: One year.
   C.   Planned office and commercial buildings: One year.
   D.   Subdivisions and/or variations in lot sizes: One year.
   E.   Special petitions: Six (6) months.
   F.   All other petitions not covered elsewhere: Six (6) months. (Ords. 93-9-
24, 19-16-66)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 4-8-8 of this Code.
2-1-8: FEE SCHEDULE:
The following fees shall be paid, at the time of application, to appear before
the Zoning and Planning Commission:
A. Public hearings                            $300.00
  Rezonings
  Variations of use
  Special use permits
  Nonconforming use permits
  All other public hearings
B. Planned unit developments:
  1 - 12 units                               $25.00
  13 - 48 units                              $40.00
  49 or more units                           $75.00
C. Planned office-commercial buildings:
  12,500 - 24,000 sq. ft. land area          $ 40.00
  24,000 - 55,000 sq. ft. land area          $ 100.00
  55,000 or more sq. ft. land area           $ 150.00
D. Subdivisions and/or variations in lot size:
  1 and 2 lots                               $ 35.00
  3 to 10 lots                               $ 50.00
  11 to 25 lots                              $ 50.00
     Plus $3.00 per lot in excess of 10    
  26 to 100 lots                             $95.00
     Plus $1.00 per lot in excess of 25    
  101 to 200 lots                            $165.00
     Plus $0.50 per lot in excess of 100   
  Over 200 lots                              $215.00
     Plus $0.35 per lot in excess of 200   
E. Special petitions                          $25.00
  Gas station requests
  C-3 plan reviews
F. Satellite dish antenna variations requests $50.00
G. All other petitions not covered elsewhere  $5.00
 
Additions in PL, R-2 and R-3
Items submitted for discussion only
Requests for zoning interpretations
   H.   All applications for a variation from any of the provisions of title 4,
5 or 6 of this code, when said variation is requested after the commencement of
construction of any structure or building, or addition thereto, on the property
in question (a "construction necessitated variation"), shall be accompanied by
a filing fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00), or a filing fee of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) if the application relates to a second or further
request for a construction necessitated variation within a twenty four (24)
month period. In the event the petitioner for said variation is the property
owner, and said petitioner can show by clear and convincing evidence that said
petitioner relied upon a third party (e.g., a contractor) who represented to
the petitioner that said third party would be responsible for petitioning for
and obtaining any required variation, said petitioner may request, and the
village board may grant, a refund of that portion of the five hundred dollar
($500.00) or five thousand dollar ($5,000.00) filing fee, as the case may be,
in excess of the normal filing fee for said variation petition. In addition,
any contractor working on a site which requires a construction necessitated
variation shall, for the twenty four (24) month period following the petition
filing date, be required to have a staked survey performed relative to any site
in relation to which the contractor is performing work that involves the
construction of a building, accessory building or structure, or any addition
thereto, and where said construction involves any increase in the lot coverage,
prior to the issuance of any building permits in relation to said work.
   I.   In addition to the fees set forth in subsections B through H of this
section, the applicant shall be responsible for the payment of any newspaper
notice publication costs and surrounding property owner notification costs
connected with the applicant's appearance before the Zoning and Planning
Commission. In relation thereto, the applicant shall be charged, in addition to
the filing fees set forth in subsections B through H of this section, a fifty
dollar ($50.00) newspaper notice publication/surrounding property owner
notification fee, if the applicant's request requires a newspaper notice/
surrounding property owner notice. If said amount exceeds the actual cost of
said notices, a refund shall be issued to the applicant. If said amount is
insufficient to cover the actual cost of said notices, the applicant shall be
required to pay the difference. The Zoning and Planning Commission shall not
proceed with regard to the applicant's request until the Department of
Community Development and Growth Management has confirmed that said newspaper
notice publication costs and surrounding property owner notification costs have
been paid by the applicant. (Ords. 93-9-24, 94-21-97, 96-05-20, 98-20-92, 04-
03-10, 19-16-66, 20-14-36)
2-1-9: HISTORIC DESIGNATION:
   A.   Nomination And Consideration Of Buildings, Districts, Landmarks And
Structures For Official Historic Designation:
      1.   Initiation Of Nomination: Nomination of any building, district,
landmark or structure for consideration for official historic designation shall
be submitted to the Commission on a form prepared by the Commission, and may be
submitted by any of the following:
         a.   A member of the Zoning and Planning Commission;
         b.   A member of the Village Board;
         c.   Any resident of the Village;
         d.   The owner(s) of record of the building, district, landmark or
structure in question.
      2.   Notification Of Nomination And Public Hearing:
         a.   Where the owner(s) of record of the building, district, landmark
or structure subject to the nomination is/are not the applicant(s), said owner
(s) of record shall be notified, by regular mail, of the nomination. In such
event, no public hearing shall he held in regard to said nomination without the
prior written consent of the owner(s) of record.
         b.   Where the owner(s) of record is/are the applicant(s) or has/have
consented to the nomination pursuant to subsection A1 above, the Commission
shall schedule a public hearing on the nomination within forty-five (45) days
following receipt of the completed nomination form and the owner(s) of record’s
consent. Notice of such public hearing shall be given by the Commission and the
petitioner at least fifteen (15) days prior thereto by the following methods:
            i.   By requiring that the petitioners post a notice of the public
hearing on the subject property(ies) in a position conspicuously visible and
readable from the street, on a sign of not less than twenty two inches (22") by
twenty eight inches (28"), setting forth the time, date and place of the public
hearing, including the common name and address for the building, landmark or
structure or the common boundaries of the District, which is the subject matter
of the public hearing.
            ii.   By mailing a copy of the notice referenced in subsection A2bi
above to every person, firm or corporation that has registered with the
Commission for purposes of receiving said notices.
            iii.   By mailing a copy of the notice referenced in subsection
A2bi above to the taxpayer of record for each lot, tract or parcel which abuts
the subject property or is separated from the subject property by only an alley
or street right of way.
All mailings required by this subsection shall be by first class U.S. mail,
with the Village staff member or Commission member who performs any such
mailing executing an affidavit as to the mailing having been performed in
compliance herewith.
      3.   Hearing Procedures: The hearing shall be conducted in accordance
with the rules of the Commission. The Commission shall consider all testimony
or evidence relating to the designation criteria, as set forth in Section
6-16-7 of this Chapter, from any person who makes written submission or appears
at the public hearing.
      4.   Recommendation By The Commission: Within thirty five (35) days
following the close of the public hearing, the Commission shall make a
determination upon the evidence as to whether the nominated building, district,
landmark or structure does or does not meet the criteria for official historic
designation. If the Commission determines that the nominated building,
district, landmark or structure does meet the criteria for official historic
designation, the Commission shall forward its recommendation to the Village
Board. Such a recommendation shall be approved by a roll call vote of the
Commission and shall be accompanied by a report to the Village Board setting
forth the Commission’s findings of fact relative to the recommendation. Said
report shall be accompanied by a map showing the location of the nominated
building, landmark or structure, or the boundaries of the nominated district.
      5.   Notification To The Nominator And Owner(s) Of Record: Notice of the
recommendation of the Commission, including a copy of the report, shall be sent
by regular mail to the nominator(s), and the owner(s) of the record if other
than nominator(s), within five (5) days after the recommendation is approved by
the Commission. Said notification shall also set forth the Village Board
meeting at which said recommendation will be discussed.
      6.   Official Historic Designation By The Village Board:
         a.   The Village Board shall, within thirty (30) days after receiving
the recommendation and report of the Commission regarding the nominated
building, district, landmark or structure, either approve of official historic
designation for said building, district, landmark or structure by ordinance, or
reject designation by motion.
         b.   Failure of the Village Board to take action on the Commission’s
recommendation within said thirty (30) day period shall be deemed to be a
rejection of the recommendation.
         c.   A certified copy of any ordinance adopted pursuant to subsection
F1 above shall be sent by regular mail to the nominator(s), and to the owner(s)
of record if any other than the nominator(s). A copy of said ordinance shall
also be filed with the Zoning and Planning Commission and the Village Building
Department.
         d.   If the Village rejects the recommendation of the Commission, the
Commission may not reconsider the nominated building, district, landmark or
structure for official historic designation for a period of one year from the
date of the Village Board’s rejection of the designation unless:
            i.   Significant new information concerning the previously
nominated building, district, landmark or structure, relating to the criteria
for official historic designation, is provided, and
            ii.   The Commission votes by an affirmative vote of at least five
(5) Commissioners to reconsider the previously nominated building, district,
landmark or structure.
   B.   Criteria For Official Historic Designation: Every nominated building,
district, landmark or structure must exhibit one or more of the following
specified criteria to receive a recommendation from the Commission for official
historic designation:
      1.   Its location as a site of a significant historic event or activity
which may or may not have taken place within or involved the use of any
existing improvements on the property;
      2.   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the cultural, architectural or economic development of the
Village, State, Midwest region or the United States;
      3.   Its exemplification of an architectural type, style or design
distinguished by innovation, rarity, uniqueness or overall quality or design,
materials or craftsmanship;
      4.   Its identification as the work of an architect, designer, engineer
or builder whose individual work is significant in the development of the
Village, State, Midwest region or the United States;
      5.   Its exemplification of important planning and urban design
techniques distinguished by innovation, rarity, uniqueness or overall quality
of design or detail;
      6.   Its association with important cultural or social aspects or events
in the history of the Village, State, Midwest region or the United States;
      7.   Its representation of a historic theme expressed through distinctive
buildings, landmarks or structures;
      8.   Its unique location or distinctive physical appearance or presence
representing an established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood,
community or the Village; or
      9.   Its exemplification of a pattern of neighborhood development or
settlement significant to the traditions of the Village, whose components may
lack individual distinction.
   C.   Effect Of Official Historic Designation: Once approved for official
historic designation, no historic building, landmark or structure, or building,
landmark or structure within a historic district, may be subjected to
alteration or demolition without the prior approval of the commission.
   D.   Official Historic Designation:
      1.   The following Historic Districts have received official historic
designation by the Village Board pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter 2:
none.
      2.   The following historic buildings, landmarks and/or structures have
received official historic designation by the Village Board pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter 2: none. (Ord. 21-19-86)
CHAPTER 2
APPEALS AND REVIEW BOARD 1
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Established, Functions
2-2-2: Jurisdiction And Authority
2-2-3: Membership, Appointments, Terms Of Office
2-2-4: Compensation
2-2-5: Meetings
2-2-6: Rules And Proceedings
2-2-7: Additional Staff, Duties
2-2-8: Fees
2-2-9: Appeals From Decisions Of The Board
 
Notes
1 1. Effective date for provisions of this chapter is June 1, 1993.
2-2-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED, FUNCTIONS:
There is hereby established an Appeals and Review Board.
The Appeals and Review Board shall hear and decide appeals and shall have the
jurisdiction and authority granted to it under section
2-2-2  of this chapter. The officer from whose decision an appeal is being
taken shall inform the aggrieved person or party as to how an appeal can be
made, and such officer shall, by rule of the board, be required and/or
permitted to appear in person or by written communication when an appeal is
heard. However, appeals arising from interpretations involving matters which
originated with the Zoning and Planning Commission shall be heard by the said
commission. (Ord. 93-9-24, 19-16-65)
2-2-2: JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY:
The Appeals and Review Board shall hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by a properly designated
administrative officer in the enforcement of the zoning title 1 , business
regulations, general building regulations and related regulations and
ordinances, subject to final approval by the Village President and Board of
Trustees.
   A.   Hearing; Appeals and Review Board: Except for variations of or within
district classifications, the Appeals and Review Board shall also hear and
decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is required to pass under
the zoning title. The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board is
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of a
properly designated administrative officer charged with the enforcement of the
zoning title, or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it
is required to pass under said zoning title.
   B.   Board Of Trustees; Power: All decisions made by the Appeals and Review
Board must be presented to the Village President and Board of Trustees for
final approval.
   C.   Limit On Appeals: Appeals from the regulations on the zoning title made
to or ruled on by the Appeals and Review Board shall be limited as set forth
below.
      1.   To permit any yard less than the yard required by the applicable
regulations and to permit any setback less than the setback required by the
applicable regulations, subject to the provisions of the zoning title.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Appeals and Review Board’s decision relative
to a request for a variation from the requirements of subsection
4-5A-3B2c of this code shall be a recommendation only.
      2.   To increase the height of a structure or building.
      3.   To increase the maximum distance that required parking spaces are
permitted to be located from the use served.
      4.   To permit the same off street parking facility to qualify as
required facilities for two (2) or more uses, provided the substantial use of
such facility by each user does not take place at approximately the same hours
of the same days of the week.
      5.   To reduce the applicable off street parking or loading facilities
required by not more than one parking space or loading space or twenty percent
(20%), whichever number is greater. All requests for parking variations in
excess of twenty percent (20%) shall be heard by the planning and development
commission. A second or a further request for reduction of parking and/or
loading requirements on the same property may be considered only after a public
hearing before the planning and development commission.
      6.   To increase the maximum gross floor area of any use so limited by
the applicable regulations.
      7.   To increase the gross area of any sign, subject to provisions of the
sign regulations of the village 2 .
      8.   To exceed any of the authorized variations allowed under this
section when a lot of record or a zoning lot, vacant or legally used on the
effective date hereof, is by reason of the exercise of the right of eminent
domain by an authorized governmental body or by reason of a conveyance under
threat of an eminent domain proceeding, reduced in size so that the remainder
of said lot of record or zoning lot or structure on said lot does not conform
with one or more of the regulations of the district in which said lot of record
or zoning lot or structure is located.
      9.   To increase the maximum height of a fence.
      10.   To increase the allowable width for a driveway or to approve a
second driveway for the same lot.
      11.   To increase the maximum lot coverage for a lot.
      12.   To hear all requests for a second garage on a single lot.
      13.   To hear all requests for a variation to the landscaping
requirements set forth in section
4-2-6 of this code.
      14.   To hear all requests for a variation from the sign regulations set
forth in title 6, chapter 8 of this code, other than as set forth in subsection
C7 of this section.
   D.   Validity Of Decision: No order of the Appeals and Review Board shall be
valid for a period longer than six (6) months from the date of such order
unless a building permit is obtained within such period and the erection or
alteration of a building is started or the use is commenced within such period.
Where the board of trustees decides on a matter referred by the Appeals and
Review Board, such decision shall be valid for a period not longer than six (6)
months unless a building permit is obtained within such period and the erection
or alteration of a building is started or the use is commenced within such
period.
   E.   Findings Of Fact Required: Every decision or recommendation made by the
Appeals and Review Board shall be accompanied by findings of fact specifying
the reason or reasons for making the findings.
   F.   Variation Requests: In the case of all requests for variations heard by
the Appeals and Review Board which would require final approval by the
president and board of trustees, but which do not require a “public hearing”,
as defined by section
4-1-6 of this code, the following notice requirements shall apply:
      1.   Not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days prior
to the meeting date on which the Appeals and Review Board is to hear the
variation request, a notice of said variation request must be published at
least once in a newspaper of general circulation within the village. Said
notice shall contain, as a minimum, the following information:
         a.   The common address for the property;
         b.   The date, place and time of the Appeals and Review Board meeting
at which the variation request will be heard;
         c.   A brief statement as to the variation being sought; and
         d.   The name of the appropriate department of the village from which
information may be obtained.
The department of quality control shall cause the aforementioned newspaper
notice to be published after said department has determined the date upon which
the variation request shall be heard by the Appeals and Review Board.
      2.   In addition to the aforementioned newspaper publication, the
applicant for the variation shall be required to furnish an affidavit setting
forth the names and addresses of the persons who own property abutting upon the
applicant’s property or separated from the applicant’s property only by an
alley, or, in the event that said persons are unknown to the applicant, an
affidavit setting forth the names and addresses of the persons who paid the
taxes during the last preceding year on each of the aforementioned properties.
The form of said affidavit shall be supplied by the department of quality
control. Said affidavit shall state that written notice of the variation
request has been personally served upon the persons named in said affidavit at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the date upon which the Appeals and Review
Board is to hear said variation request, or that said notices have been mailed
to said persons at least twenty (20) days prior to the date upon which the
Appeals and Review Board is to hear said variation request. Where such service
is by the United States mail, same shall be by certified or registered mail,
with return receipt requested, and a copy of said receipt shall be affixed to
the affidavit and made a part thereof. The affidavit shall be determined to be
proper by the Appeals and Review Board before proceeding on the variation
request.
In the case of a variation request which would not require final approval by
the president and board of trustees, the petitioner need only comply with the
notice to surrounding property owners requirement of subsection F2 of this
section.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the Appeals and
Review Board the power or authority to alter or change the zoning title or the
zoning district map, such power and authority being reserved to the board of
trustees of the village in the manner hereinafter provided in section
4-2-9 of this code.
   G.   Filed Petition: Where a petition filed relative to a parcel of property
includes matters under the jurisdiction of the planning and development
commission and matters under the jurisdiction of the Appeals and Review Board,
all matters covered by said petition shall be heard by the Zoning and Planning
Commission. (Ords. 93-9-24, 98-20-92, 01-15-56, 08-21-66, 19-16-65, 22-01-02)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 4 of this Code.
2 1. See Title 6, Chapter 8 of this Code.
2-2-3: MEMBERSHIP, APPOINTMENTS, TERMS OF OFFICE:
The Appeals and Review Board shall consist of seven (7) members whereby the
President shall appoint one (1) member and each Village Trustee shall appoint
one (1) member from their own district. All appointments, except to vacancies,
shall begin on September 1 of the calendar year. Members of the Appeals &
Review Board serving as of the effective date hereof shall serve until the end
of the term to which appointed and until their successors are named and
qualified. Effective October 1, 2021, a full term shall be four (4) years and
terms shall be staggered so that not more than three (3) expire each year. Such
staggered terms shall coincide with Districts 1, 3 and 5 appointees to expire
opposite years of District 2, 4, and 6 appointees. Appointments to vacancies
shall be for the duration of the unexpired term. All appointments to follow
shall be for five (5) four (4) year terms, however, any such appointee may be
removed at any time by the President with the advice and consent of the Village
Board.
If a vacancy exists following the failure and/or refusal by a Village Trustee
to appoint a member by October 1 of the calendar year, an appointment shall be
made by a recommendation from the President with approval of the majority of
the Village Board.
The President and Board of Trustees may compel attendance of any absent member
and may remove any such member from said Board if that member misses three (3)
consecutive meetings. The removal shall be initiated by the President and
subject to the confirmation of such removal by the advice and consent of the
Village Board.
The chairman shall be elected annually at the regular meeting closest to
September 1, by and from the membership, to serve a term of one year. No member
may serve as chairman more than two (2) consecutive terms. The board may
designate such other officers as it may, by rule, prescribe.
The chairman of the board may declare that a vacancy exists if a member has
been absent for five (5) consecutive meetings. The adequacy of excuses offered
for absences shall be determined by the chairman. (Ords. 08-24-82, 19-16-65)
2-2-4: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the board shall receive a sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per meeting for every properly posted meeting attended, or such prorated
portion thereof as shall represent the time served in a given calendar year,
with a minimum annual renumeration of $500.00 per member if the member attends
70% or more of all properly posted meetings. This remuneration is intended to
cover normal and necessary expenses of the member. Additional or unusual
expenses may be covered as budgeted upon receipt of proper evidence of
expenditure and approval by this board. (Ords. 93-9-24, 19-16-65, 21-19-87, 23-
13-47)
2-2-5: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Meetings shall be held every-other-month on the 4th
Tuesday of said month, except that the board may, by rule, provide for changing
date for seasonal reasons or in the event there is no pending business.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairman or by
any three (3) members of the board.
   C.   Open To The Public: All meetings of the Appeals and Review Board and
its committees shall be open meetings as required under the applicable statutes
of the state 1  and the codes of the village. (Ords. 93-9-24, 19-16-65, 20-16-
45 )
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2-2-6: RULES AND PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Generally: The Appeals and Review Board shall develop rules for the
conduct of its business and participation by the public at its meetings and
such rules shall be reduced, in writing, and be available for inspection in the
office of the board. If such rules pertain to conduct of public hearings, they
shall be submitted to the board of trustees for approval.
   B.   Public Hearings: When the Appeals and Review Board  deems a public
hearing to be necessary or desirable or when a public hearing is required by
the zoning title or the laws of the state or by the codes of the village, the
relevant rules for a public hearing shall be those set forth in section
2-1-8-1 of this title.
   C.   Minutes And Records:
      1.   The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
that fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and other official
acts.
      2.   The board may use a mechanical recorder to record its proceedings,
and it shall permit those appearing before a public hearing to use a court
reporter, stenographer or mechanical recorder.
      3.   A copy of every rule or regulation, every amendment and every order,
requirement, decision or determination of the board shall be filed in the
office of the village clerk and shall be a public record. Filing a copy of the
correct minutes of the board is adequate notice to the village clerk of action
by the board.
   D.   Agenda: The Appeals and Review Board shall issue, not later than five
(5) calendar days before its meeting, an agenda listing items to be considered
to include the nature of the request and its location and said agenda shall be
posted in a public location at the village hall.
   E.   Actions Subject To Review, Required Information: Actions of the board
which are subject to review or confirmation by the board of trustees shall be
forwarded to the board of trustees in a form which shall include the following:
      1.   A copy of the approved minutes of each and every meeting of the
Appeals and Review Board at which discussion or action on the subject matter
was held.
      2.   Copies of any documents relevant to the subject.
      3.   A statement of the majority for the recommendation. The director of
office of quality control may also submit any findings and make
recommendations. The minority voting on the question may also submit a
statement explaining its position.
No action may be taken by the board of trustees until it has received, in
advance of the meeting at which the item is on the agenda, proper information
as required by the procedure it has established. (Ords. 93-9-24, 19-16-65)
2-2-7: ADDITIONAL STAFF, DUTIES:
The director of office of quality control shall assign to the board such staff
as is necessary to expedite and assist the work of the board. Such staff shall
include a competent secretary who shall be paid from funds of the village at a
rate to be established as part of the village's salary scale. The staff shall
be responsible for keeping accurate records of the work of the board and for
carrying out required reporting functions. All members of all boards specified
herein are to receive minutes from all other boards. (Ord. 93-9-24)
2-2-8: FEES:
   A.   Appeals: The application to appear before the Appeals and Review Board
shall be accompanied by a filing fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   B.   Public Hearings: Where a public hearing is required by the Appeals and
Review Board, by the zoning title, by the codes of the village or the laws of
the state, the fees as specified in subsection
2-1-9 A of this title shall apply.
   C.   Requests For Construction Necessitated Variations: All applications for
a variation from any of the provisions of title 4, 5 or 6 of this code, when
said variation is requested after the commencement of construction of any
structure or building, or addition thereto, on the property in question (a
"construction necessitated variation"), shall be accompanied by a filing fee of
five hundred dollars ($500.00), or a filing fee of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) if the application relates to a second or further request for a
construction necessitated variation within a twenty four (24) month period. In
the event the petitioner for said variation is the property owner, and said
petitioner can show by clear and convincing evidence that said petitioner
relied upon a third party (e.g., a contractor) who represented to the
petitioner that said third party would be responsible for petitioning for and
obtaining any required variation, said petitioner may request, and the village
board may grant, a refund of that portion of the five hundred dollar ($500.00)
or five thousand dollar ($5,000.00) filing fee, as the case may be, in excess
of the normal filing fee for said variation petition. In addition, any
contractor working on a site which requires a construction necessitated
variation shall, for the twenty four (24) month period following the petition
filing date, be required to have a staked survey performed relative to any site
in relation to which the contractor is performing work that involves the
construction of a building, accessory building or structure, or any addition
thereto, and where said construction involves any increase in the lot coverage,
prior to the issuance of any building permits in relation to said work.
   D.   Notice Fees: In addition to the fees set forth in subsections A, B, and
C of this section, the applicant shall be responsible for the payment of any
newspaper notice publication costs and surrounding property owner notification
costs connected with the applicant's appearance before the Appeals and Review
Board. In relation thereto, the applicant shall be charged, in addition to the
filing fees set forth in subsections A, B and C of this section, a fifty dollar
($50.00) newspaper notice publication/surrounding property owner notification
fee, if the applicant's request requires a newspaper notice/surrounding
property owner notice. If said amount exceeds the actual cost of said notices,
a refund shall be issued to the applicant. If said amount is insufficient to
cover the actual cost of said notices, the applicant shall be required to pay
the difference. The Appeals and Review Board shall not proceed with regard to
the applicant's request until the department of quality control has confirmed
that said newspaper notice publication costs and surrounding property owner
notification costs have been paid by the applicant. (Ords. 93-9-24, 96-05-20,
98-20-92, 04-03-11, 19-16-65)
2-2-9: APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Denial: The appeal procedure from a denial or an unfavorable
recommendation of a petition by the Appeals and Review Board is as follows: a
petitioner has the right to appeal to the president and board of trustees if
his petition has been denied by the Appeals and Review Board. The petitioner
shall submit a letter no later than thirty (30) days after his petition has
been denied by the Appeals and Review Board to the village clerk, and the
department of quality control, requesting to be placed upon the agenda of the
president and board of trustees. The village clerk shall then place the appeal
petition on the earliest practical agenda of the president and board of
trustees. In cases where the Appeals and Review Board denies a petition or
recommends that a proposed variation or amendment not be adopted, such denial,
amendment or variation shall not be reversed, adopted or passed, except by the
favorable vote of four (4) concurring trustees.
   B.   Favorable Recommendation: The appeal procedure from a favorable
recommendation of a petition by the Appeals and Review Board is as follows: An
objector has the right to appeal to the president and board of trustees if a
petition to which he has objected has been granted by the Appeals and Review
Board. The objector shall submit a letter no later than five (5) days after a
petition to which he has objected has been granted by the Appeals and Review
Board to the village clerk, and department of quality control, requesting to be
placed upon the agenda of the president and board of trustees. The village
clerk shall then place the appeal petition on the next agenda of the president
and board of trustees. In cases where the Appeals and Review Board grants a
petition or recommends that a proposed variation or amendment be adopted, such
grant, amendment or variation shall not be reversed, except by the favorable
vote of four (4) concurring trustees.
   C.   Notice Requirements For An Appeal: In the event that a petitioner files
a notice of appeal with the village clerk pursuant to subsection A of this
section, the village clerk shall schedule said appeal for the first village
board meeting occurring at least twenty one (21) days following the filing of
said notice of appeal. The petitioner shall be required to serve each
individual, who appeared as an objector at the Appeals and Review Board
hearings on the petitioner's request, with a copy of the notice of appeal and
the date of the village board meeting at which said appeal will be heard. For
purposes of determining who is entitled to said notice, the petitioner shall
only be required to notify those objectors whose names and addresses appear in
the records of the Appeals and Review Board relative to the petitioner's
request. The petitioner on appeal shall be required to furnish an affidavit
setting forth the names and addresses of the persons who appeared as objectors
at the proceedings before the Appeals and Review Board. The form of said
affidavit shall be supplied by the department of quality control. Said
affidavit shall state that written notice of the appeal request has been
personally served upon the persons named in said affidavit at least seven (7)
days prior to the date upon which the village board is to hear said appeal
request, or that said notices have been mailed to said persons at least
fourteen (14) days prior to the date upon which the village board is to hear
said appeal request. Where such service is by the United States mail, same
shall be by certified or registered mail with return receipt requested and a
copy of said receipt shall be affixed to the affidavit and made a part thereof.
The affidavit shall be determined to be proper by the village attorney before
proceeding on the appeal. (Ords. 93-9-24, 98-9-41, 19-16-65)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS 1
SECTION:
2-3-1: Board Established, Composition
2-3-2: Officers
2-3-3: Meetings
2-3-4: Powers And Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 1, Chapter 12 of this Code.
2-3-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED, COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established a Board of Local Improvements for the Village which
shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the President of the Village
with the consent of the Trustees. (Ords. 71-18-43, 77-30-52, 79-19-29)
2-3-2: OFFICERS:
The President of the Village shall be the president of the Board of Local
Improvements. The members of the Board of Local Improvements may designate one
of its members as secretary of the Board, or the members may appoint a person
other than the members to act as secretary at a compensation to be fixed by the
Village Board of Trustees. (Ords. 71-18-43, 79-19-29)
2-3-3: MEETINGS:
The Board of Local Improvements shall meet upon the call of the President or
any two (2) members. Twenty four (24) hours' notice of such call shall be given
each member; provided, that a meeting be held when all members are present,
without notice. Notices of meetings shall be sent as provided for by subsection
1-6-3D of this Code.
The Director of Office of Quality Control and the Village Attorney shall be
required to attend all meetings of the Board of Local Improvements. (1951 Code
1-6-1, 1-6-3, 2-8-9; Ords. 68, 81-12-19)
2-3-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Board of Local Improvements shall have all of the powers and duties
conferred and imposed by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-2-1, Illinois
Municipal Code and such additional duties as may be assigned to it by statute
or ordinance. (Ord. 71-18-43)
CHAPTER 4
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 07-23-70)
CHAPTER 5
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Commission Established, Composition
2-5-2: Duties
2-5-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED, COMPOSITION:
The village of Oak Lawn Deferred Compensation Plan Commission is hereby
established. The commission shall have three (3) members and shall be composed
of the Village Manager, Village Treasurer and Finance Director or their
designees. (Ord. 80-11-23; 1985 Code; Ord. 19-16-64)
2-5-2: DUTIES:
The duties of the commission shall be:
   A.   To monitor the administration of the village deferred compensation
plan.
   B.   To advise the village regarding the operation of the plan and the
desirability of amending the plan.
   C.   To participate in determining whether any participants in the plan, who
seek to withdraw deferred compensation because of an unforeseeable emergency,
is entitled to such withdrawal by the terms of the plan and applicable law.
(Ords. 80-11-23, 19-16-64)
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-6-1: Appointment And Term Of Office, Meetings
2-6-2: Qualifications; Oath And Bond; Removal From Office
2-6-3: Officers, Meetings
2-6-4: Compensation
2-6-5: Rules Of The Board
2-6-6: Appointments Of Fire And Police Department Members
2-6-7: Reports
2-6-8: Rooms And Funds For Board
2-6-9: Fire And Police Department Members, Qualifications And Procedures
2-6-9-1: Qualifications Of Applicant
2-6-9-2: Examinations
2-6-9-3: Register Of Eligibles
2-6-9-4: Veteran's Preference
2-6-9-5: Promotions
2-6-9-6: Removals Or Discharges
2-6-9-7: Disability Or Military Leave
2-6-9-8: Reduction Of Forces, Reinstatement
2-6-10: Applicability Of Provisions
2-6-1: APPOINTMENT AND TERM OF OFFICE, MEETINGS:
There is hereby created and established a seven (7) member Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners whereby the President shall appoint one (1) member and
each Village Trustee shall appoint one (1) member from their own district. All
appointments, except to vacancies, shall begin on September 1 of the calendar
year. Members of Board of Fire and Police Commissioners serving as of the
effective date hereof shall serve until the end of the term to which appointed
and until their successors are named and qualified. Effective September 1,
2019, a full term shall be four (4) years and terms shall be staggered so not
more than four (4) expire each year. Such staggered terms shall coincide with
District 1, 3, and 5 appointees to expire opposite years of District 2, 4, and
6 appointees. For purposes of this Chapter, such appointments for District 1,
3, and 5 beginning on September 1, 2019, shall have initial term limit to end
in calendar year 2021 so as to initiate such staggered terms.
If a vacancy exists following the failure and/or refusal by a Village Trustee
to appoint a member by October 1 of the calendar year, an appointment shall be
made by a recommendation from the President with approval of the majority of
the Village Board.
The President and Board of Trustees may compel attendance of any absent member
and may remove any such member from said Commission if that member misses three
(3) consecutive meetings. The removal shall be initiated by the President and
subject to the confirmation of such removal by the advice and consent of the
Village Board.
(1951 Code 2-9-1; Ords. 79, 19-16-61, 19-18-69)
2-6-2: QUALIFICATIONS; OATH AND BOND; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The members of the board shall be considered officers of the village, and shall
file an oath and a fidelity bond in such amount as may be required by the board
of trustees 1 .
No person holding an office under the United States, this state or any
political subdivision thereof, or a municipality, shall be a member of the
board of fire and police commissioners or the secretary thereof. The acceptance
of any such office by a member of the board shall be treated as a resignation
of his office as a member of the board or the secretary thereof. No person
shall be appointed a member of the board of fire and police commissioners who
is related, either by blood or marriage up to a degree of first cousin, to any
elected official of the village. No more than two (2) members of the board
shall belong to the same political party existing in the village at the time of
such appointments and as defined in 10 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2. If
only one or no political party exists in the village at the time of such
appointments then state or national political party affiliations shall be
considered in making such appointments. Party affiliation shall be determined
by affidavit of the person appointed as a member of the board.
Members shall not be subject to removal, except for cause, upon written
charges, and after an opportunity to be heard within thirty (30) days in his or
their own defense, before a regular meeting of the board of trustees. A
majority vote of the elected members of such board of trustees shall be
required to remove any such member from office.  (1951 Code 2-9-3; 1985 Code;
Ords. 86-3-9, 19-16-61)
 
Notes
  1. See sections
1 1-9-3 and
  1-9-4 of this code.
2-6-3: OFFICERS, MEETINGS:
   A.   Secretary To The Board: The board may employ a secretary, or may
designate one of its own members to act as secretary. The secretary shall:
      1.   Keep the minutes of the Board's proceedings;
      2.   Be the custodian of all records pertaining to the business of the
Board;
      3.   Keep a record of all examinations held;
      4.   Perform all other duties the Board prescribes; and
      5.   Be custodian of the seal of the Board, if one is adopted. The Board
is hereby authorized to adopt, by resolution, an official seal and to prescribe
the form thereof.
   B.   Regular Meetings: Meetings shall be held at least once every month on
the 1st Wednesday of the month. except that the Board may, by rule, provide for
changing dates for seasonal reasons or in the event there is no pending
business.
   C.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairman or by
any three (3) members of the Commission.
   D.   Open to the Public: All meetings of the Board shall be open meetings as
required under the applicable statutes of the State and the codes of the
Village.
   E.   Robert’s Rules of Order: In all cases not covered by the rules herein
or where they are not applicable, the Board shall be covered by parliamentary
law as laid down in “Robert’s Rules of Order” as revised. (1951 Code 2-9-15;
Ord. 76-7-12; 1985 Code; Ords. 86-3-9, 87-13-53, 19-16-61, 19-18-69, 21-20-92,
22-09-29, 23-01-01)
2-6-4: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the Board shall receive a sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per meeting for every properly posted meeting attended, or such portion thereof
as shall represent time served in a given calendar year, with a minimum annual
renumeration of $500.00 per member if the member attends 70% or more of all
properly posted meetings. This remuneration is intended to cover normal and
necessary expenses of the member. Additional or unusual expenses may be covered
as budgeted upon receipt of proper evidence of expenditure and approval by this
Commission. (Ords. 76-7-12, 19-16-61, 19-18-69, 23-13-47)
2-6-5: RULES OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Authority: The Board shall make rules:
      1.   To carry out the purpose of this Chapter, and
      2.   For appointments and removals in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter.
      The Board, from time to time, may make changes in these rules.
   B.   Publication: All these rules and changes therein shall be printed
immediately for distribution. The Board shall give notice of all places where
the printed rules may be obtained and of the date, not less than ten (10) days
subsequent to the time of publication, when the rules or changes therein shall
go into operation. This notice shall be published in one or more newspapers
published in the Village, or, if no newspaper is published therein, then in one
or more newspapers with a general circulation within the Municipality.
   C.   Application Of Rules: These rules of the Board shall apply only to the
conduct of examinations for original appointments, for promotions, and to the
conduct of hearings on charges brought against a member of the Police and Fire
Departments. No rule shall be made by the Board to govern the operation of the
Police or Fire Departments or of the conduct of its members unless the Board of
Trustees specifically authorizes the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners to
make such rules; however, the Board of Trustees may also rescind such
authorization. (1951 Code
2-9-5)
2-6-6: APPOINTMENTS OF FIRE AND POLICE DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
   A.   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall appoint all sworn
officers and members of the Fire and Police Departments of the Village, except
the Chief of Police, the Chief of the Fire Department, and the Deputy Fire
Chief, who shall be appointed by the Village Manager without the consent of the
President and the Board of Trustees.
   B.   If a member of the Department is appointed Chief of Police, Chief of
the Fire Department, or Deputy Fire Chief prior to being eligible to retire on
pension, they shall be considered as on furlough from the rank he held with the
Village immediately prior to their appointment as Chief or Deputy Chief, if
any, not including positions previously appointed by the Village Manager. If
they resign as Chief or Deputy Chief or are discharged as Chief or Deputy Chief
prior to attaining eligibility to retire on pension, they shall revert to and
be established in such prior rank, if any, not including positions previously
appointed by the Village Manager, and thereafter be entitled to all the
benefits and emoluments of such prior rank, without regard as to whether a
vacancy then exists in such rank.
   C.   All appointments made by the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners to
each Department other than that of the lowest rank shall be from the rank next
below that to which the appointment is made, except in the case of tested Fire
Bureau Chief, which may be made from multiple subordinate ranks as provided in
the fire department collective bargaining agreement.
   D.   The sole authority to issue certificates of appointment shall be vested
in the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners and all certificates of
appointments issued to any officer or member of the Fire or Police Department
shall be signed by the chairman and secretary respectively of the Board of Fire
and Police Commissioners of the Village, upon appointment of such officer or
member of the Fire and Police Department by the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners.
   E.   Any full-time member of a regular Fire or Police Department of the
Village is a Village officer.
   F.   In order to prevent a stoppage of public business, to meet
extraordinary exigencies, or to prevent material impairment of either the
Police or Fire Department, the Board may make temporary appointments, to remain
in force until regular appointments may be made under the provisions of this
Chapter, but never to exceed sixty (60) days. No temporary appointment of any
one person shall be made more than twice in any calendar year.
(1951 Code 2-9-5, 2-9-12; Ords. 86-3-9, 25-11-25)
2-6-7: REPORTS:
Annually, on May 1 and on such other occasions as the President may request,
the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall submit to the President a
report of its activities, and of the rules in force and the practical effect
thereof. In this report the Board may make suggestions which the Board believes
would result in greater efficiency in the Fire or Police Department. The Board
shall also submit an annual budget request to the Board of Trustees prior to
the end of each fiscal year. The President shall transmit the report to the
Board of Trustees. (1951 Code 2-9-14)
2-6-8: ROOMS AND FUNDS FOR BOARD:
The Board of Trustees shall provide suitable rooms for the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners, and shall allow reasonable use of public buildings for
holding examinations by the Board and shall further provide adequate funds in
the annual appropriation ordinance for the operation of the Board. (Ord. 76-7-
12)
2-6-9: FIRE AND POLICE DEPARTMENT MEMBERS, QUALIFICATIONS AND PROCEDURES:
2-6-9-1:QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
   A.   Residence Requirements: (Repealed)
   B.   Character: No person shall be appointed to the police or fire
department unless he is a person of good character; not a habitual drunkard,
drug addict, gambler, or a person who has been convicted of a felony or a crime
involving moral turpitude. Any such person who is in the department may be
removed on charges brought and after a trial as hereinafter provided. (1951
Code 2-9-6; Ords. 487, 86-3-9, 89-18-49)
2-6-9-2:EXAMINATIONS:
   A.   Examination Required; Disqualifications; Removal: All applicants for a
position in either the fire or police department of the village, under thirty
five (35) years of age, shall be subject to examination, which shall be public,
competitive, and at a cost of twenty five dollars ($25.00) to reimburse the
village for its costs of administration, and shall be subject to reasonable
limitations as to residence, health, habits and moral character. No person with
a record of misdemeanor convictions except those under 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-6, 5/11-7, 5/11-9, 5/11-14, 5/11-15, 5/11-17, 5/11-18, 5/11-19,
5/12-2, 5/12-6, 5/12-12 et seq., 5/14-4, 5/16-1, 5/21-1.3, 5/24-3.1, 5/24-5, 5/
25-1, 5/28-3, 5/31-1, 5/31-4, 5/31-6, 5/31-7, 5/32-1, 5/32-2, 5/32-3, 5/32-4,
5/32-8, and subsections 1, 6 and 8 of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1 of
the Illinois criminal code 1 , or arrested for any cause but not convicted
thereon shall be disqualified from taking the examination to qualify for a
position in the fire department on grounds of habits or moral character.
Pursuant to the village's home rule powers, as provided by article VII, section
6 of the 1970 Illinois constitution, the age limitation exceptions, as provided
for in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-6(d), shall not be applicable in
determining an individual's eligibility to apply for an entry level position in
either the fire or police department of the village.
Applicants who are twenty (20) years of age and who have successfully completed
two (2) years of law enforcement studies at an accredited college or university
may be considered for appointment to active duty with the police department.
Any such applicant who is appointed to active duty shall not have power to
arrest, nor shall he be permitted to carry firearms, until he reaches twenty
one (21) years of age. Applicants who are eighteen (18) years of age and who
have successfully completed two (2) years of study in fire techniques,
amounting to a total of four (4) high school credits, within the cadet program
of a municipality may be considered for appointment to active duty with the
fire department of the village. The examinations shall be practical in
character and relate to those matters which will fairly test the capacity of
the persons examined to discharge the duties of the positions to which they
seek appointment. No person shall be appointed to the police or fire department
if he does not possess a high school diploma or an equivalent high school
education. The examinations shall include tests of physical qualifications and
health. No person shall be appointed to the police or fire department if he has
suffered the amputation of any limb unless the applicant's duties will be only
clerical or as a radio operator. No applicant shall be examined concerning his
political or religious opinions or affiliations. The examinations shall be
conducted by the board of fire and police commissioners of the village as
hereinafter provided.
No person who is classified by his local selective service draft board as a
conscientious objector, or who has ever been so classified, may be appointed to
the police department.
No person shall be appointed to the police or fire department unless he is a
person of good character; not a habitual drunkard, drug addict, gambler, or a
person who has been convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude.
However, no person shall be disqualified from appointment to the fire
department because of such person's record of misdemeanor convictions except
those under 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-6, 5/11-7, 5/11-9, 5/11-14, 5/
11-15, 5/11-17, 5/11-18, 5/11-19, 5/12-2, 5/12-6, 5/12-12 et seq., 5/14-4, 5/
16-1, 5/21-1.3, 5/24-3.1, 5/24-5, 5/25-1, 5/28-3, 5/31-1, 5/31-4, 5/31-6, 5/31-
7, 5/32-1, 5/32-2, 5/32-3, 5/32-4, 5/32-8, and subsections 1, 6 and 8 of 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1 of the Illinois criminal code 2 , or arrest
for any cause without conviction thereon. Any such person who is in the
department may be removed on charges brought and after a trial as hereinafter
provided.
A waiver of the examination fee will be granted to any applicant who attests in
writing that the imposition of said fee will result in a financial hardship. If
any individual, for which the examination fee is waived, is appointed by the
village, said individual shall reimburse the village for the twenty five dollar
($25.00) examination fee within ninety (90) days after being appointed.
   B.   Notice: Notice of the time and place of every examination shall be
given by the board by a publication at least two (2) weeks preceding the
examination, in one or more newspapers published in the village.
   C.   Exemptions: Any member of the police department who has held a position
in the police department for not less than one year prior to May 25, 1954,
shall become a member of the classified service of the police department
without examination.
   D.   Educational Requirements: Notwithstanding anything set forth in
subsection A of this section, pursuant to the village's home rule powers, as
provided by article VII, section 6 of the 1970 Illinois constitution, all
applicants for entry level positions in either the fire or police department of
the village shall have the required education as set forth below:
      1.   Firefighters: Each firefighter applicant, as a minimum training and
educational requirement, shall:
         a.   Possess and maintain a valid CPAT (candidate physical ability
test) card with ladder climb endorsement which is current as of the date of
filing the application for employment.
         b.   Possess License from Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH)
as an EMT- Paramedic at the date and time of hire.
         c.   In lieu of IDPH EMT-Paramedic license, A firefighter applicant
may possess a National Registry of Emergency Medical Technician - Paramedic
(NREMT-P) certification.
            (1)   The applicant shall be legally eligible for licensure as a
State of Illinois EMT-Paramedic at the date and time of hire.
            (2)   NREMT-P Certification shall be current and valid with
continuing education requirements maintained.
            (3)   The Fire Chief shall have the additional duty to both verify
and certify that the applicant's NREMT-P Certification is official, current and
valid at the date and time of hire.
         d.   Possess Certification from the Illinois Office of State Fire
Marshal as a Basic Operations Firefighter (BOF) or Firefighter II at the date
and time of hire.
         e.   If firefighter applicant has completed training and education but
does not possess certification as Illinois OSFM Basic Operations Firefighter.
            (1)   Possess Certificate of Completion, from accredited fire
academy, college or university for all Illinois OSFM Basic Operations
Firefighter (BOF) requirements.
            (2)   This requirement includes, but is not limited to: training,
education, passing scores on all OSFM BOF written and practical examination
requirements, Co-Requisite course completion for the Illinois OSFM Basic
Operations Firefighter (BOF) at the date and time of hire.
            (3)   The Fire Chief shall have the additional duty to both verify
and certify that the applicant's Certificate of Completion of BOF requirement
is both official and valid at the date and time of hire.
      2.   Police Officers: Each police officer applicant, as a minimum
educational requirement, shall have successfully completed at least sixty (60)
semester or ninety (90) quarter hours of credit at an accredited college or
university as of the date of filing the application for employment. This
requirement will be waived for candidates who have completed four (4) years of
active duty with an honorable discharge in the U.S. military and/or candidates
who meet the criteria of the board's lateral transfer policy. (1951 Code 2-9-6,
2-9-7, 2-9-9; Ords. 84-26-79, 86-3-9, 89-2-5, 96-9-44, 98-7-28, 98-9-44A, 98-9-
44B, 08-26-90, 11-10-10, 22-18-57)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
2 1. 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
2-6-9-3: REGISTER OF ELIGIBLES:
   A.   The board of fire and police commissioners shall prepare and keep a
register of persons whose general average standing upon examination is not less
than the minimum fixed by the rules of the board, and who are otherwise
eligible. These persons shall take rank upon the register as candidates in the
order of their relative excellence as determined by examination, without
reference to priority of time of examination.
   B.   Police applicants who have been awarded a certificate attesting to
their successful completion of the minimum standards basic law enforcement
training course, as provided in the Illinois police training act, may be given
preference in appointment over noncertified applicants, all as provided in the
rules and procedures of the board. No such educational preference, however, may
be given to applicants for appointment to the fire department, including
candidates who are licensed as an EMT-B, EMT-I or EMT-P under the emergency
medical systems act. (1951 Code 2-9-10; 1985 Code; Ords. 96-9-44, 98-7-28, 06-
15-93)
2-6-9-4: VETERAN'S PREFERENCE:
   A.   General: Persons who were engaged in the military or naval service of
the United States for a period of at least one year and who were honorably
discharged therefrom, or who are now or may hereafter be on inactive reserve
duty in such military or naval service, not including, however, persons who
were convicted by court martial of disobedience of orders, where such
disobedience consisted in the refusal to perform military service on the
grounds of religious or conscientious objections against war, shall be
preferred for appointments to offices, positions and places of employment in
the fire and police departments of the village coming under the provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   Preferences In Original Appointments: The board of fire and police
commissioners shall give preference for original appointments to persons
designated in subsection A of this section whose names appear on any register
of eligibles resulting from an examination for original entrance in the
classified service of the fire and police departments by adding to the final
grade average which they receive or will receive as the result of any
examination held for original entrance, five (5) points. The numerical result
thus attained shall be applied by the board of fire and police commissioners in
determining the position of such persons on any eligibility list which has been
created as the result of any examination for original entrance for purposes of
preference in certification and appointment from such eligibility list. The
board shall strike off the names of candidates for original appointment after
such names have been on the list for more than two (2) years.
   C.   Promotional Preferences:
      1.   Every member of the classified service of the fire or police
department of this village coming under the provisions of this chapter who was
engaged in the military or naval service of the United States at least one
year, and who was honorably discharged therefrom, who is now or who may
hereafter be on inactive or reserve duty in such military or naval service, not
including, however, persons who were convicted by court martial of disobedience
of orders where such disobedience consisted in the refusal to perform military
service on the grounds of alleged religious or conscientious objections against
war, and whose name appears on existing promotional eligibility registers or
any promotional eligibility register that may hereafter be created as provided
for by this chapter, shall be preferred for promotional appointments of the
fire or police department.
      2.   The board of fire and police commissioners shall give preference for
promotional appointment to persons designated in subsection A of this section
whose names appear on promotional eligibility registers by adding to the final
grade average which they will receive as a result of any promotional
examination, seven-tenths percent (0.7%) of one point for each six (6) months
or fraction thereof of military or naval service not exceeding thirty (30)
months. The numerical result thus attained shall be applied by the board of
fire and police commissioners in determining the position of such persons on
any eligibility list as the result of any promotional examination held for
purposes of preference in certification and appointment from such eligibility
list.
      3.   No person shall receive the preference for a promotional appointment
granted by this chapter after he has received one appointment or promotion from
an eligibility list on which he was allowed such preference.
   D.   Time For Allowance Of Preferences: No person entitled to preference or
credit for military or naval service shall be required to claim military credit
for service in the armed forces before any examination held under the
provisions of this chapter, but such preference shall be given after the
posting or publication of the eligibility list or register at the request of
such person before any certification or appointments are made from the
eligibility register, upon the furnishing of evidence of an honorable discharge
from and proof of such service.
   E.   Applicable Preference Points: Pursuant to the village's home rule
powers, as provided by article VII, section 6 of the 1970 Illinois
constitution, except for military preference points as set forth in subsections
A through D of this section, no other preference points provided for pursuant
to the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-1 through 5/10-2.1-
30 shall be applicable to either entry level or promotional examinations given
by the board of fire and police commissioners. (1951 Code 2-9-8; 1985 Code;
Ords. 86-3-9, 94-21-95)
2-6-9-5: PROMOTIONS:
   Except with respect to the offices of Chief of Police, Fire Chief, or Deputy
Fire Chief, the board, by its rules, shall provide for promotion in the fire
and police departments on the basis of ascertained merit and seniority in
service and examination, and shall provide in all cases, where it is
practicable, that vacancies shall be filled by promotion. Promotion to the
positions of Chief of Police, Fire Chief or Deputy Fire Chief may be made by
appointment by the Village Manager only, with no ascertained merit, seniority,
or examination required; however, such positions need not be appointed from the
current members of the Departments. All examinations for promotion shall be
competitive among such members of the next lower ranks as desire to submit
themselves to examination. All promotions shall be made from the three (3)
having the highest rating, and where there are less than three (3) names on the
promotional eligibility register, as originally posted, or remaining thereon
after appointments have been made therefrom, appointments to fill existing
vacancies shall be made from those names or name remaining on the promotional
register. The method of examination and the rules governing examinations for
promotion shall be the same as provided for applicants for original
appointment, except that original appointments only shall be on probation, as
provided by the rules. The board shall strike off the names of candidates for
promotional appointment after they have remained thereon for more than three
(3) years, provided there is no vacancy existing which can be filled from the
promotional register.
(1951 Code 2-9-11; Ord. 25-11-25)
2-6-9-6: REMOVALS OR DISCHARGES:
   A.   Hearing: Except as hereinabove provided, no officer or member of the
fire or police department of the village shall be removed or discharged except
for cause, upon written charges, and after an opportunity to be heard in his
own defense. The board of fire and police commissioners shall conduct a fair
and impartial hearing of the charges, to be commenced within thirty (30) days
of the filing thereof, which hearing may be continued from time to time. In
case an officer or member is found guilty, the board may discharge him, or may
suspend him not exceeding thirty (30) days without pay. The board may suspend
any officer or member pending the hearing with or without pay, but not to
exceed thirty (30) days. If the board of fire and police commissioners
determines that the charges are not sustained, the officer or member shall be
reimbursed for all wages withheld, if any. In the conduct of this hearing, each
member of the board shall have power to administer oaths and affirmations, and
the board shall have power to secure by its subpoena both the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of books and papers relevant to the
hearing.
   B.   Review: The provisions of 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et
seq., and the rules adopted pursuant thereto, shall apply to and govern all
proceedings for the judicial review of final administrative decisions of the
board of fire and police commissioners hereunder. The term "administrative
decision" is defined as in 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101.
   C.   Retirement Age: The age for retirement of policemen or firemen in the
service of the village is sixty five (65) years.
   D.   Suspension By Chief: Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the chief of the fire department or the chief of the police department
from suspending, without pay, a member of his department for a period of not
more than five (5) days, but he shall notify the board in writing of such
suspension. Any police officer or firefighter so suspended may appeal to the
board of fire and police commissioners for a review of the suspension within
twenty four (24) hours after such suspension, and upon such appeal, the board
may sustain the action of the chief of the department, may reverse it with
instructions that the police officer or firefighter receive his pay for the
period involved, or may suspend the officer for an additional period of not
more than thirty (30) days or discharge him, depending upon the facts
presented. (1951 Code 2-9-13; 1985 Code; Ord. 86-3-9)
2-6-9-7: DISABILITY OR MILITARY LEAVE:
A person holding a position in the fire or police department who is injured
while in the performance of his duties and because of such injury is
temporarily unable to continue to perform his duties or who enters the military
or naval service of the United States because of a war in which the United
States is a party belligerent or as required by any act of congress shall, upon
written application to the board, be granted a disability or military leave, as
the case may be.
A person who has been on disability or military leave granted by the board and
who wishes to return to active duty in his certified position shall be credited
with seniority for the period of such leave and, if otherwise qualified, shall
be reinstated to his certified position at the rank or grade held at the start
of the leave, not more than sixty (60) days after his written request for
reinstatement is filed with the board. Such request shall be filed not more
than thirty (30) days after termination of the disability or military or naval
service. (Ord. 76-7-12)
2-6-9-8: REDUCTION OF FORCES, REINSTATEMENT:
   A.   When the force of the fire department or of the police department is
reduced, and positions displaced or abolished, seniority shall prevail and the
officers and members so reduced in rank, or removed from the service of the
fire department or of the police department shall be considered furloughed
without pay.
   B.   If any positions which have been vacated because of reduction in forces
or displacement and abolition of positions, are reinstated, such members and
officers of the fire department or of the police department as are furloughed
from the said positions shall be notified by the board by registered mail of
such reinstatement of positions and shall have prior right to such positions if
otherwise qualified, and in all cases seniority shall prevail. Written
application for such reinstated position must be made by the furloughed person
within thirty (30) days after notification as above provided, and such person
may be required to submit to examination by physicians of both the board of
fire and police commissioners and the appropriate pension board to determine
his physical fitness. (1969 Code 2-226)
2-6-10: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to full time firefighters and
full time police officers of a regularly constituted fire or police department
and not to any other personnel of any kind or description. (1969 Code 2-234;
Ord. 86-3-9)
CHAPTER 7
FIREMEN'S PENSION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-7-1: Board Established, Composition
2-7-2: Organization
2-7-3: Duties
2-7-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED, COMPOSITION:
There shall be and there is hereby established a board of trustees of the
firemen's pension fund.
The board of trustees of the firemen's pension fund shall consist of five (5)
members, of which two (2) members shall be chosen by the village president, two
(2) members shall be chosen from the active firemen of the village, and one
other member shall be chosen from the firemen of the village who have been duly
retired under the firemen's pension fund act, all in accordance with the
statute in such case made and provided.
The members of this board to be chosen from the active and retired firemen
shall be elected by ballot at elections to be held on the third Monday in April
of the applicable years under the Australian ballot system, at such place in
the village and under such regulations as shall be prescribed by such board;
provided, however, that no person entitled to vote shall cast more than one
vote at such election for each candidate for whom he shall be eligible to vote.
(Ords. 481, 06-03-16)
2-7-2: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: The board shall elect from its numbers a president and a
secretary. The village treasurer shall be ex officio treasurer of such board.
   B.   Meetings: The pension board shall meet at least quarterly, and shall
hold such additional meetings as may be called by the president of the pension
board. (Ord. 481)
2-7-3: DUTIES:
The pension board shall perform all the duties under the provisions of an act
entitled an act to create a "firemen's pension fund" in cities, incorporated
towns, villages, townships and fire districts having a population of not less
than five thousand (5,000) nor more than two hundred thousand (200,000)
inhabitants, in force July 11, 1919, and all amendments thereto, being 40
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-101 et seq. (Ord. 481)
CHAPTER 8
POLICE PENSION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-8-1: Board Created, Membership; Terms Of Office
2-8-2: Officers
2-8-3: Meetings
2-8-4: Powers And Duties
2-8-1: BOARD CREATED, MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE:
A board composed of five (5) members, a majority of whom shall be residents of
the village, to be chosen as hereinafter provided, shall be and constitute a
board of trustees to administer the pension fund and designate the
beneficiaries thereof. Said board shall be known as the board of trustees of
the police pension fund of the village. Two (2) of said board members shall be
appointed by the president of the village, one of said members shall serve from
date of appointment until May 31, 1952; the other of said members shall serve
from date of appointment until May 31, 1953. The successors to the foregoing
trustees shall serve for a period of two (2) years or until such time as their
successors are appointed and qualified. The fifth member shall be elected from
the beneficiaries by such beneficiaries. The members to be elected shall be
elected for a period from the date of election until May 31, 1953, and for two
(2) year terms thereafter. The elections shall be held biennially on the third
Monday in April and all appointments shall be made by the president on or
before May 30 of the year in which the appointment is to be made. (1951 Code 3-
31)
2-8-2: OFFICERS:
At the regularly scheduled July meeting, the board shall select from its
members a president, vice president, secretary and assistant secretary, to
serve for the period of one year and until their respective successors are
elected and qualified. (1951 Code 3-33)
2-8-3: MEETINGS:
The board herein provided for shall hold regular quarterly meetings on the
second Tuesday of July, October, January and April of each year and special
meetings upon the call of the president of said board. (1951 Code 3-33)
2-8-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The board of trustees of the pension fund shall have and
exercise all powers and duties provided by law 1 .
   B.   Duties Of Vice President: The vice president of the board shall perform
the duties of the president during any vacancy in that office, or during such
time as the president is absent from the village, or for any other reason is
disqualified, or by reason of illness or other cause is unable to perform his
duties.
   C.   Duties Of Assistant Secretary: The assistant secretary shall act for
the secretary whenever necessary to discharge the functions of such office.
(1951 Code 3-34)
 
Notes
1 1. 40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 9
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
CHAPTER 10
ELECTRICAL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-10-1: Commission Established, Membership, Appointment
2-10-2: Duties
2-10-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED, MEMBERSHIP, APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby established an Electrical Commission consisting of six (6)
members as follows: The Chief Electrical Inspector of the Village shall be a
member and ex officio chairman of the Commission; of the other five (5)
members, one shall be a registered professional engineer, one an electrical
contractor, one a journeyman electrician, one shall be the Chief of the Fire
Prevention Bureau of the Village, and one representative of an electricity
supply company. If there is no person residing in the Village who is qualified
under any one of these descriptions, the President of the Village may appoint
some other person to fill that position. All members of the Electrical
Commission shall be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of
the Trustees. (1951 Code 21-10-12, 21-10-13; Ord. 78-19-48)
2-10-2: DUTIES:
The Electrical Commission shall recommend safe and practical standards and
specifications for the installation, alteration and use of electrical
equipment, reasonable rules and regulations governing the issuance of permits
by the Electrical Inspection Department, and reasonable fees to be paid for the
inspection by the Inspection Department of all electrical equipment installed
or altered within the Village. All fees so adopted shall be paid into the
Village Treasury. (1951 Code 21-10-14)
CHAPTER 11
COMMUNITY SENIOR CITIZEN COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
CHAPTER 12
YOUTH COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
CHAPTER 13
OAK LAWN CIVIC CENTER COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
CHAPTER 14
FAMILY COUNCIL SERVICE BOARD
(Rep. by Ord. 10-12-23)
CHAPTER 15
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD
(Rep. by Ord. 16-16-67)
CHAPTER 16
LOCAL BUSINESS SUPPORT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
CHAPTER 17
OAK LAWN FEST COMMITTEE
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
CHAPTER 18
FAIR HOUSING AND FAIR HOUSING COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
CHAPTER 19
SPECIAL EVENTS COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
CHAPTER 20
ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW AND PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-20-1: Commission Created, Appointment, Membership
2-20-2: Terms Of Office; Vacancies
2-20-3: Meetings
2-20-4: Powers And Duties
2-20-5:    Nomination And Consideration Of Buildings, Districts, Landmarks And
Structures For Official Historic Designation
2-20-6:    Criteria For Official Historic Designation
2-20-7:    Effect Of Official Historic Designation
2-20-8:    Official Historic Designation
2-20-1: COMMISSION CREATED, APPOINTMENT, MEMBERSHIP:
There is hereby created and established a seven (7) member Architectural Review
and Preservation Commission, whereby the President shall appoint one (1) member
to the Commission and each Village Trustee shall appoint one (1) member from
their own district. Members of the Architectural Review & Preservation
Commission shall be residents of the Village and, as nearly as possible, shall
be representative of the following interested groups of the business community:
construction, finance and architecture and commercial businesses located within
the Village. If a vacancy exists following the failure and/or refusal by a
Village Trustee to appoint a member by October 1 of the calendar year, an
appointment shall be made by a recommendation from the President with approval
of the majority of the Village Board.
The President and Board of Trustees may compel attendance of any absent member
and may remove any such member from said Commission if said member misses three
(3) consecutive meetings. The removal shall be initiated by the President and
subject to the confirmation of such removal by the advice and consent of the
Village Board.
Each member of the Commission shall receive a sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
meeting for every meeting attended, or such prorated portion thereof as shall
represent the time served in a given calendar year. This remuneration is
intended to cover normal and necessary expenses of the member. Additional or
unusual expenses may be covered as budgeted upon receipt of proper evidence of
expenditure and approval by this Commission.
(Ords. 13-11-37, 19-16-62)
2-20-2: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
All appointments, except to vacancies, shall begin on September 1 of the
calendar year. Members of the Architectural Review and Preservation Commission
serve as of the effective date hereof and shall serve until the end of the term
to which appointed and until their successors are named and qualified.
Effective September 1, 2019 a full term shall be four (4) years, and terms
shall be staggered so that not more than three (3) expire each year. Such
staggered terms shall coincide with District 1, 3, and 5 appointees to expire
opposite years of District 2, 4, and 6 appointees. For purposes of this
Chapter, such appointments for District 2, 4, and 6 beginning on September 1,
2019, shall have initial term limit to end in calendar year 2021 so as to
initiate such staggered terms. Members shall serve until their successors are
named and qualified. Appointments to vacancies shall be for the duration of the
unexpired term. Members shall serve until their successors are named and
qualified. Appointments to vacancies shall be for the duration of the unexpired
term. (Ords. 08-01-02, 19-16-62)
2-20-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Meetings shall be held at every month on the 2nd and
4th Thursday of said month, except for the 4th Thursday in December, and that
the Board may, by rule, provide for changing the date for seasonal reasons of
in the event there is no pending business.
   B.   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called by the chairman or by
any three (3) members of the Board.
   C.   Open to the Public: All meetings of the Architectural Review and
Preservation Commission and its committees shall be open meetings as required
under the applicable statutes of the State of Illinois and codes of the
Village.
   D.   The commission, by its rules, may create a subcommittee structure to
enhance efficiency in consideration of commission business. No motion shall be
passed by the commission which could in any manner deprive the owner of, or
restrict the owner in, the use of any building, landmark or structure until
such owner shall first have had the opportunity to be heard at a public meeting
of the commission. Every final decision of the commission and every
recommendation it makes to the village board shall include written findings of
fact, and shall specify the reason or reasons for such decision or
recommendation. The secretary of the commission shall mail notice of any
decision of the commission to the applicant and any other person who has
requested notice of said decision within five (5) days of such decision. Four
(4) commissioners shall constitute a quorum for any regular or special meeting.
A meeting of the commission cannot be called to order without establishment of
a quorum. (Ords. 08-01-02, 19-16-62)
2-20-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Architectural Review and Preservation Commission shall perform the
following tasks and prepare a report to the Village Board of Trustees:
   A.   Survey existing commercial buildings and townhomes within the Village
as to exterior design and materials.
   B.   Make recommendations as to the design and materials for new
construction and remodeling of existing commercial buildings and townhomes in
the Village. As for townhomes, the committee shall specifically review and
recommend design and materials as well as exterior elevations.
   C.   Make recommendations as to methods of financing facade improvements for
existing commercial buildings.
   D.   In addition, the committee shall have the power to require Village
department heads and employees to appear before it and answer questions and
assist the committee in its recommendations.
      1.   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify historic buildings,
districts, landmarks and structures within the Village.
      2.   To investigate and make recommendations to the Village Board
concerning the adoption of ordinances designating buildings, districts,
landmarks and structures as historic.
      3.   To keep a register of all buildings, districts, landmarks and
structures that have received official historic designation, including all
information required as part of each designation.
      4.   To create an appropriate system of plaques for identification of
historic buildings, districts, landmarks and structures, and make
recommendations for the design and implementation of specific markings and
signage of streets and routes leading from one historic building, district,
landmark and/or structure to another.
      5.   To advise and assist owners of historic buildings, landmarks and
structures in regard to:
         a.   Identifying the State and Federal agencies through which historic
building, landmark and/or structure designation can be applied for and
obtained;
         b.   The preparation of applications for State or Federal historic
building, landmark and/or structure designation;
         c.   Seeking out grant funds that are available for individuals who
desire to restore historic buildings, landmarks and/or structures;
         d.   The preparation of application for said grant funds; and
         e.   The technical aspects of the preservation, renovation,
rehabilitation and restoration of historic buildings, landmarks and/or
structures.
      6.   To participate in the "certified local government" program of the
National Historic Preservation Act, as amended, and the Illinois Historic
Preservation Agency, and carry out any responsibilities delegated to the
Commission under that program.
      7.   To inform and educate the citizens of the Village concerning the
historic heritage of the Village by publishing appropriate maps, newsletters,
brochures and pamphlets, and by sponsoring programs and seminars.
      8.   To review and comment upon proposed planned unit development, zoning
amendment, special use and variation requests that are submitted to the Village
in regard to historic buildings, districts, landmarks and structures.
      9.   To administer, on behalf of the Village, any historic building,
landmark, or structure that the Village may have or accept as a gift, upon
direction and approval by the Village Board.
      10.   To accept and administer on behalf of the Village such gifts,
grants and money as may be appropriate for the purposes of this Chapter, upon
direction and approval by the Board of Trustees.
      11.   To call upon available Village staff members as well as other
experts for technical advice.
      12.   To testify before all boards, committees and commissions of the
Village, on any matter affecting any historic building, district, landmark, or
structure.
      13.   To confer recognition upon the owners of historic buildings,
landmarks and structures for their historic preservation efforts by means of
certificates, plaques, markers or awards.
      14.   To assist in the development, review or amendment of a historic
building, district, landmark and/or structure preservation component in the
Comprehensive Plan of the Village.
      15.   To periodically review the Zoning Ordinance of the Village (Title 4
of this Code) and to make recommendations to the Village Board concerning any
amendments appropriate for the protection and preservation of historic
buildings, districts, landmarks and structures.
      16.   To review and comment upon Village projects or activities affecting
historic buildings, districts, landmarks or structures.
      17.   To prepare a list of historic buildings, districts, landmarks and
structures within the Village that it feels would meet the requirements for
official historic designation.
To undertake any other action or activity necessary or appropriate to the
implementation of its powers and duties, or to implementation of the purposes
of this Chapter, as assigned from time to time by the Village Board. (Ords. 17-
15-55, 19-16-62)
2-20-5: NOMINATION AND CONSIDERA- TION OF BUILDINGS, DISTRICTS, LANDMARKS AND
STRUCTURES FOR OFFICIAL HISTORIC DESIG- NATION:
   A.   Initiation Of Nomination: Nomination of any building, district,
landmark or structure for consideration for official historic designation shall
be submitted to the Commission on a form prepared by the Commission, and may be
submitted by any of the following:
      1.   A member of the Commission;
      2.   A member of the Zoning and Planning Commission;
      3.   A member of the Village Board;
      4.   Any resident of the Village;
      5.   The owner(s) of record of the building, district, landmark or
structure in question.
   B.   Notification Of Nomination And Public Hearing:
      1.   Where the owner(s) of record of the building, district, landmark or
structure subject to the nomination is/are not the applicant(s), said owner(s)
of record shall be notified, by regular mail, of the nomination. In such event,
no public hearing shall he held in regard to said nomination without the prior
written consent of the owner(s) of record.
      2.   Where the owner(s) of record is/are the applicant(s) or has/have
consented to the nomination pursuant to subsection B1 above, the Commission
shall schedule a public hearing on the nomination within forty five (45) days
following receipt of the completed nomination form and the owner(s) of record's
consent. Notice of such public hearing shall be given by the Commission and the
petitioner at least fifteen (15) days prior thereto by the following methods:
         a.   By requiring that the petitioners post a notice of the public
hearing on the subject property(ies) in a position conspicuously visible and
readable from the street, on a sign of not less than twenty two inches (22") by
twenty eight inches (28"), setting forth the time, date and place of the public
hearing, including the common name and address for the building, landmark or
structure or the common boundaries of the District, which is the subject matter
of the public hearing.
         b.    By mailing a copy of the notice referenced in subsection B2a
above to every person, firm or corporation that has registered with the
Commission for purposes of receiving said notices.
         c.   By mailing a copy of the notice referenced in subsection B2a
above to the taxpayer of record for each lot, tract or parcel which abuts the
subject property or is separated from the subject property by only an alley or
street right of way.
All mailings required by this subsection B shall be by first class U.S. mail,
with the Village staff member or Commission member who performs any such
mailing executing an affidavit as to the mailing having been performed in
compliance herewith.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with
the rules of the Commission. The Commission shall consider all testimony or
evidence relating to the designation criteria, as set forth in Section 6-16-
7 of this Chapter, from any person who makes written submission or appears at
the public hearing.
   D.   Recommendation By The Commission: Within thirty five (35) days
following the close of the public hearing, the Commission shall make a
determination upon the evidence as to whether the nominated building, district,
landmark or structure does or does not meet the criteria for official historic
designation. If the Commission determines that the nominated building,
district, landmark or structure does meet the criteria for official historic
designation, the Commission shall forward its recommendation to the Village
Board. Such a recommendation shall be approved by a roll call vote of the
Commission and shall be accompanied by a report to the Village Board setting
forth the Commission's findings of fact relative to the recommendation. Said
report shall be accompanied by a map showing the location of the nominated
building, landmark or structure, or the boundaries of the nominated district.
   E.   Notification To The Nominator And Owner(s) Of Record: Notice of the
recommendation of the Commission, including a copy of the report, shall be sent
by regular mail to the nominator(s), and the owner(s) of the record if other
than nominator(s), within five (5) days after the recommendation is approved by
the Commission. Said notification shall also set forth the Village Board
meeting at which said recommendation will be discussed.
   F.   Official Historic Designation By The Village Board:
      1.   The Village Board shall, within thirty (30) days after receiving the
recommendation and report of the Commission regarding the nominated building,
district, landmark or structure, either approve of official historic
designation for said building, district, landmark or structure by ordinance, or
reject designation by motion.
      2.   Failure of the Village Board to take action on the Commission's
recommendation within said thirty (30) day period shall be deemed to be a
rejection of the recommendation.
      3.   A certified copy of any ordinance adopted pursuant to subsection F1
above shall be sent by regular mail to the nominator(s), and to the owner(s) of
record if any other than the nominator(s). A copy of said ordinance shall also
be filed with the Zoning and Planning Commission and the Village Building
Department.
      4.   If the Village rejects the recommendation of the Commission, the
Commission may not reconsider the nominated building, district, landmark or
structure for official historic designation for a period of one year from the
date of the Village Board's rejection of the designation unless:
         a.   Significant new information concerning the previously nominated
building, district, landmark or structure, relating to the criteria for
official historic designation, is provided, and
         b.   The Commission votes by an affirmative vote of at least five (5)
Commissioners to reconsider the previously nominated building, district,
landmark or structure. (Ord. 19-16-62)
2-20-6: CRITERIA FOR OFFICIAL HISTORIC DESIGNATION:
Every nominated building, district, landmark or structure must exhibit one or
more of the following specified criteria to receive a recommendation from the
Commission for official historic designation:
   A.   Its location as a site of a significant historic event or activity
which may or may not have taken place within or involved the use of any
existing improvements on the property;
   B.   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the cultural, architectural or economic development of the
Village, State, midwest region or the United States;
   C.   Its exemplification of an architectural type, style or design
distinguished by innovation, rarity, uniqueness or overall quality or design,
materials or craftsmanship;
   D.   Its identification as the work of an architect, designer, engineer or
builder whose individual work is significant in the development of the Village,
State, midwest region or the United States;
   E.   Its exemplification of important planning and urban design techniques
distinguished by innovation, rarity, uniqueness or overall quality of design or
detail;
   F.   Its association with important cultural or social aspects or events in
the history of the Village, State, midwest region or the United States;
   G.   Its representation of a historic theme expressed through distinctive
buildings, landmarks or structures;
   H.   Its unique location or distinctive physical appearance or presence
representing an established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood,
community or the Village; or
   I.   Its exemplification of a pattern of neighborhood development or
settlement significant to the traditions of the Village, whose components may
lack individual distinction. (Ord. 19-16-62)
2-20-7: EFFECT OF OFFICIAL HISTORIC DESIGNATION:
Once approved for official historic designation, no historic building, landmark
or structure, or building, landmark or structure within a historic district,
may be subjected to alteration or demolition without the prior approval of the
commission. (Ord. 19-16-62)
2-20-8: OFFICIAL HISTORIC DESIGNATION:
   A.   The following Historic Districts have received official historic
designation by the Village Board pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter 2:
none.
   B.   The following historic buildings, landmarks and/or structures have
received official historic designation by the Village Board pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter 2: none. (Ord. 19-16-62)
CHAPTER 21
ARTS AND EVENTS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-21-1: Definitions
2-21-2: Commission Created, Appointment, Membership
2-21-3: Terms Of Office
2-21-4: Officers
2-21-5: Removal Of Members, Vacancies
2-21-6: Powers And Duties
2-21-7: Public Arts Fund
2-21-8: Finances
2-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The terms "arts" and "art" as used in this section include, but are not
limited to, creative writing, dance, film/video, music, theater, visual arts,
crafts, performing arts, spoken word, environmental arts, multimedia arts,
architectural arts, landscape architecture, and emerging media.
   B.   The term "event" and "events" as used in this section shall mean
community based temporary aggregation of people or attracts for a common
purpose, including but not limited to holidays, festivals, street fairs, arts
and craft shows, carnivals, circuses, rallies, public entertainment, or other
similar events or attractions. (Ords. 14-28-66, 19-16-60)
2-21-2: COMMISSION CREATED, APPOINTMENT, MEMBER- SHIP:
There is hereby created and established a fourteen (14) member Village of Oak
Lawn Arts and Events Commission, hereinafter referred to as the "commission",
whereby the President shall appoint two (2) members and each Village Trustee
shall appoint two (2) members from their own district. Members shall be chosen
from a diverse range of backgrounds, occupations, and artistic venues, with the
intention of reflecting the full diversity of the Oak Lawn arts community. If a
vacancy exists following the failure and/or refusal by a Village Trustee to
appoint a member by October 1 of the calendar year, an appointment shall be
made by a recommendation from the President with approval of the majority of
the Village Board.
The President and Board of Trustees may compel attendance of any absent member
and may remove any such member from said Commission if that member misses three
(3) consecutive meetings. The removal shall be initiated by the President and
subject to the confirmation of such removal by the advice and consent of the
Village Board.
Each member of the Commission shall receive a sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per meeting for every meeting attended, or such prorated portion
thereof as shall represent the time served in a given calendar year, with a
minimum annual remuneration of $500.00 per member if the member attends 70% or
more of all properly posted meetings. This remuneration is intended to cover
normal and necessary expenses of the member. Additional or unusual expenses may
be covered as budgeted upon receipt of proper evidence of expenditure and
approval by this Commission.
   A.   Regular Meetings: Meetings shall be held at every month on the 3rd
Wednesday of said Month, except for the months of December and January with a
maximum of ten (10) meetings a year, except that the Commission may, by rule,
provide for changing the date for seasonal reasons of in the event there is no
pending business.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairman or by
any three (3) members of the Commission.
   C.   Open To The Public: All meetings of the Arts and Events Commission and
its committees shall be open meetings as required under the applicable statutes
of the State of Illinois and codes of the Village. (Ords. 16-07-16, 19-16-60,
23-13-47)
2-21-3: TERMS OF OFFICE:
All appointments, except to vacancies, shall begin on September 1 of the
calendar year. Members of the Arts and Events Commission serving as of the
effective date hereof shall serve until the end of the term to which appointed
and until their successors are named and qualified. Effective September 1,
2019, a full term shall be four (4) years and terms shall be staggered so not
more than eight (8) expire each year. Such staggered terms shall coincide with
District 1, 3, and 5 appointees to expire opposite years of District 2, 4, and
6 appointees. For purposes of this Chapter, such appointments for District 2,
4, and 6 beginning on September 1, 2019, shall have initial term limit to end
in calendar year 2021 so as to initiate such staggered terms.
(Ords. 14-28-66, 19-16-60)
2-21-4: OFFICERS:
A chairperson and vice chairperson shall be elected annually, at the regular
meeting of the commission closest to September 1 of the calendar year, by and
from the membership, to serve a one year term not to exceed two (2) consecutive
terms. (Ords. 14-28-66, 19-16-60)
2-21-5: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS, VACANCIES:
Any member of the commission may be removed by the president of the village for
good cause with the approval of a majority of the board of trustees. Any member
of the commission who misses three (3) consecutive regular meetings without
notification shall be subject to removal from said commission. A written
notification from the president of the village will be given the member on
occasion of his removal. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term in
the same manner as the original appointment. The commission may recommend to
the president and board of trustees the removal of one of its members. (Ords.
14-28-66, 19-16-60)
2-21-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission shall adopt its rules of procedure for whatever regular and
special meetings are deemed by the commission to be advisable and necessary to
the fulfillment of the duties of the commission. Nothing in this chapter shall
be construed as vesting legislative or budgetary discretion or power in the
commission.
The duties and responsibilities of the commission may include, but not be
limited to, the following:
   A.   To explore and recommend to the village president, board of trustees,
village staff, and other groups ways to further the development of, and
interest in the arts, strengthen Oak Lawn's cultural awareness, ways to expand
opportunities for artistic expressions, and offer advice on relevant village
projects.
   B.   To propose to the president and board of trustees an annual public arts
program plan that identifies specific program goals of the year, means of
achievement, proposed expenditures, sources of supplemental revenue, schedule
of execution, necessary resources and responsibilities, and implementation of a
plan to address stated goals.
   C.   To recommend to the president and board of trustees policies regarding
the selection of proposed public arts projects such as the involvement of
artists in selected building projects, criteria for artist and site selection
and other policies relevant to the public arts program. Such policies should
reflect the following three (3) priorities:
      1.   Community accessibility to the arts;
      2.   Artist accessibility to resources; and
      3.   Opportunities for collaboration and partnerships.
   D.   To review relevant proposals and assist in the process by which
artists, arts organizations, community organizations, businesses, developers,
merchant associations, charitable foundations, or any other member of the
general public proposes and creates projects in the arts which are located in
public places owned and maintained by the village of Oak Lawn.
   E.   To approve proposals that are not permanently placed on municipal
property.
   F.   To research and seek additional funding including donations, grants,
and other support to further expand public arts programs.
   G.   To encourage public participation in local artistic and cultural events
and programs.
   H.   To cooperate with other public and private entities regarding the arts.
   I.   To increase artistic recognition through exhibitions and/or
competitions.
   J.   To provide leadership and a voice for the arts in Oak Lawn and to
advocate for the arts in both public and private endeavors.
   K.   To offer educational programming to the public regarding the arts and
to coordinate events and outreach related to the arts.
   L.   The powers and duties of the Arts and Events Commission shall be to
determine when and where events and parades are to be held in the village, the
type of special event or parade, those who shall participate therein, to set
out where the special events are to be held or the parade routes, and to
provide crowd and traffic control in consultation with the village police
department. (Ords. 14-28-66, 19-16-60)
2-21-7: PUBLIC ARTS FUND:
A public arts fund is hereby created to serve as an account through which funds
from the village, outside grant monies, private and corporate donations for the
arts, and other revenue sources can be received, collected, and distributed.
(Ords. 14-28-66, 19-16-60)
2-21-8: FINANCES:
The commission may receive from the village an annual appropriation to be
provided by the president and board of trustees. The commission shall be
empowered to apply for, receive, and obtain monies, funds and grants from
public and private resources upon approval of the board of trustees. The
president and board of trustees must approve all expenditures recommended by
the commission, and shall submit reports as may be designated by the village
manager. (Ords. 14-28-66, 19-16-60)
CHAPTER 22
LIQUOR AND TOBACCO LICENSING REVIEW BOARD
SECTION:
2-22-1: Established; Composition
2-22-2: Compensation, Meetings
2-22-3: Powers And Duties
2-22-1: ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established a Liquor and Tobacco Licensing Review Board which
shall consist of seven (7) persons who are appointed by, and serve at the sole
discretion of, the Village President. (Ords. 15-17-66, 19-16-63, 21-08-41)
2-22-2: COMPENSATION, MEETINGS:
All appointments, except to vacancies, shall begin on September 1 of the
calendar year. Members of the Liquor and Tobacco Licensing Review Board serve
as of the effective date hereof shall serve until the end of the term to which
appointed and until their successors are named and qualified. Effective
September 1, 2019 a full term shall be four (4) years, and terms shall be
staggered so that not more than three (3) expire each year. Such staggered
terms shall coincide with District 1, 3, and 5 appointees to expire opposite
years of District 2, 4, and 6 appointees. For purposes of this Chapter, such
appointments for District 2, 4, and 6 beginning on September 1, 2019, shall
have initial term limit to end in calendar year 2021 so as to initiate such
staggered terms. Members shall serve until their successors are named and
qualified. If a vacancy exists following the failure and/or refusal by a
Village Trustee to appoint a member by October 1 of the calendar year, an
appointment shall be made by a recommendation from the President with approval
of the majority of the Village Board.
The President and Board of Trustees may compel attendance of any absent member
and may remove any such member from said Commission if that member misses three
(3) consecutive meetings. The removal shall be initiated by the President and
subject to the confirmation of such removal by the advice and consent of the
Village Board.
Each member shall receive a sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per meeting
for every properly posted meeting attended, or such prorated portion thereof as
shall represent the time served in a given calendar year, with a minimum annual
remuneration of $500.00 per member if the member attends 70% or more of all
properly posted meetings. This remuneration is intended to cover normal and
necessary expenses of the member. Additional or unusual expenses may be covered
as budgeted upon receipt of proper evidence of expenditure and approval by this
Commission.
   A.   Regular Meetings: Meetings shall be held at every-other month on the
4th Tuesday of said Month, except that the Board may, by rule, provide for
changing the date for seasonal reasons of in the event there is no pending
business.
   B.   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called by the chairman or by
any three (3) members of the Board.
   C.   Open to the Public: All meetings of the Liquor and Tobacco Licensing
Review Board and its committees shall be open meetings as required under the
applicable statutes of the State of Illinois and codes of the Village. (Ords.
15-17-66, 19-16-63, 21-08-41, 21-11-54, 23-13-47)
2-22-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Liquor and Tobacco Licensing Review Board shall perform such functions and
duties as directed or requested by the liquor and tobacco commissioner in
relation to the regulation of licensed activities, including, but not limited
to, the following:
   A.   Review applications and the investigation of applicants for liquor
licenses, and to submit findings and recommendations to the liquor commissioner
setting forth its conclusions respecting such applications.
   B.   Review applications and the investigation of applicants for tobacco
retail licenses, as defined under Title 3, Chapter 15, Section 1, and to submit
findings and recommendations to the commissioner setting forth its conclusions
respecting such applications.
   C.   Conduct disciplinary hearings and submit findings and recommendations
to the commissioner setting forth its conclusions respecting the existence and
nature of any violation of the Oak Lawn liquor code and the appropriate
disciplinary action to be taken, if any.
   D.   Review and recommend changes of the Oak Lawn liquor code to the
president and board of trustees. (Ords. 15-17-66, 19-16-63, 21-08-41)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR BUSINESSES, CERTIFICATES, LICENSES AND PERMITS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Business Regulation Certificates
3-1-1-1: Purpose And Jurisdiction
3-1-1-2: Rules And Definitions
3-1-1-3: Certificate Required
3-1-1-4: Application For Certificate
3-1-1-5: Restrictions On Certificates
3-1-1-6: Issuance Of Certificate; Term; Investigation; Fees
3-1-1-7: Fee Schedules
3-1-1-8: Location Of Business
3-1-1-9: Records And Standards
3-1-1-10: Revocation Of Certificate; Appeals
3-1-1-11: Exemptions From Provisions
3-1-1-12: Enforcement And Penalties
3-1-2: Permit Application And Fees
3-1-3: Signatures Required
3-1-4: Investigations And Inspections
3-1-5: Term And Transferability Of License, Permit Or Certificate
3-1-6: Revocation Of Licenses, Permits And Business Regulation Certificates
Authorized
3-1-7: Business Regulations And Restrictions
3-1-7-1: Disclosure Of Ownership Interest In Entities
3-1-7-2: Nuisance Businesses Prohibited
3-1-7-3: Rental Units, Interest On Security Deposits
3-1-7-4: Community Events Calendar; Scheduling Of Events, Carnivals, Etc.
3-1-7-5: Gun Shop Location Restrictions
3-1-7-6: Disclosure Of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency Contacts
3-1-8: Consumer Fraud And Deceptive Practices
3-1-8-1: Definitions
3-1-8-2: Consumer Fraud And Deceptive Practices Prohibited
3-1-8-3: Penalties For Violations
3-1-8-4: Revocation Of Licenses, Permits And/Or Business Regulation
Certificates - Consumer Fraud And Deceptive Practices Hearing Board
3-1-9: Contractors Working On Projects For The Village; Licenses
3-1-1: BUSINESS REGULATION CERTIFICATES:
3-1-1-1: PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION:
   A.   Because each commercial establishment and/or business activity located
in the village is a basic part of and affects the physical and economic well-
being of the village necessitating special services from the village in the
form of fire, health, sanitation, building and police inspections and services,
such commercial establishments and/or business activities shall in all respects
be in full compliance with the provisions of this section. This section is
designed to provide for the means whereby the village may render the necessary
inspections and services to commercial establishments, business activities and
commercial areas in order to promote, protect, and safeguard the public health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of Oak Lawn and to enable the effecting of
an accurate record of commercial establishments and business activities located
and carrying on commercial activities or business and commerce within the
village.
   B.   The commercial establishments and business activities so regulated may
or may not have their principal place of business located within the village.
   C.   The business regulation fees provided for herein are not intended to
license any business or profession nor are they to be construed as an
endorsement of the competency or skill of any individual, company, corporation
or other entity. Only governmental activities and other approved eleemosynary
activities will be issued a certificate without charge, except as may be
required herein.
   D.   Business regulation fees based upon square foot area are predicated
upon the premise that there is a finite amount of square footage in all of the
commercial zoning districts within the village. These commercial districts
require substantial services over and above the services provided for single-
family homes and other residential districts. The business activities conducted
within the finite square foot area of the commercial districts of the village
require these extra services regardless of the activity being conducted within
each commercial space. Therefore, the fee is based equitably upon the square
foot area of each place of business as a minimum fee.
The basis for the fee schedule may be based on additional factors other than
square foot area of the business establishment.
Other fee charges are added for activities listed in section
3-1-1-7, table A of this chapter. (Ords. 68(8)-1-3, 68(8)-2-14, 71-13-31, 74-
12-19, 86-3-11, 23-12-42)
3-1-1-2: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Rules Of Word Construction: The language set forth in the text of this
section shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of
construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
      2.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the
future the present.
      3.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
      4.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
      5.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this section, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
thereof; and any word herein defined shall be construed in the same sense as
that word.
      6.   All measurements are expressed in square feet and shall be to the
nearest integral square foot; if a fraction is one-half (1/2) square foot or
more, the integral square foot next above shall be taken.
      7.   Regulatory fees for vending machines shall be applied to the
individual machine, and not to the business location, and said vending machines
cannot be relocated within the Village without the issuance of a new
certificate, upon notification, in writing, to the Director of Administrative
Services of such relocation.
   B.   Definitions: The following words and terms wherever they occur in this
Section shall be construed as herein defined:
ACCESSORY USE: A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of a building located on the same lot with the principal use of the
building.
ADVERTISING SIGN: Any sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, activity or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than
upon the premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
BASEMENT: The portion of a building located partly underground but having less
than one-half (1/2) its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade
of the adjoining ground.
CELLAR: The portion of a building partly or wholly underground but having one-
half (1/2) or more than one-half (1/2) of its clear floor-to-ceiling height
below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS AND/OR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES: Includes the following
types of commercial establishments and business activities located or conducted
within the Village.
      1.   Retail sales involving the exchange of any commodity for a price or
fee by a seller to a consumer.
      2.   Service businesses, including hospitals, involving any service
performed or rendered for a price or fee whether or not a commodity is worked
upon or exchanged.
      3.   Manufacturing businesses involving any activity where a product is
produced for distribution to any retail or service business.
      4.   Wholesale and/or storage involving any other business or business
activity or process from procurement of raw materials to delivery to the final
consumer.
      5.   Any business activity, retail, service, manufacturing, wholesale
and/or storage which is conducted within the Village, whose principal place of
business may or may not be located within the Village, but is listed as
requiring a business certificate herein.
      6.   A commercial establishment under this Section is deemed to be any
person, company, firm, partnership, corporation or other legal entity
chartered, licensed, incorporated or declared to be in existence for the
purpose of making a profit from its activities. The provisions of this Section
shall apply to profit-oriented activities but are not applicable to recognized
not-for-profit or eleemosynary establishments or activities except as may be
provided herein.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of all of the several floors
of a building and its accessory buildings measured in square feet from the
exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the center line of party walls
separating two (2) buildings or business establishments on each of the
respective floors, and shall include the basement floor, a cellar floor, motor
vehicle parking space when such space is used in conjunction with a drive-in
commercial establishment, and commercial establishments, devoted to the sale,
service and/or repair of motor vehicles, floor space used for mechanical
equipment, whether open or enclosed, penthouse attic space, balconies,
mezzanines, porches, verandas and floor area devoted to and occupied by
accessory uses.
HOME OCCUPATION BUSINESS CERTIFICATE: The Village is not opposed to the
development of a business which starts as a small home occupation providing
that the home occupation does not impinge upon the rights and privileges of the
abutting and adjoining homeowners and, further, that the home occupation is
conducted in such manner that it does not change in any way the neighborhood
atmosphere of an R-1, R-2 or R-3 Residential District. Such home occupations
must comply with the provisions of Section
4-1-6 (Home Occupations) of this Code. A home occupation business certificate
is required and the fee is as set forth in the fee schedule.
OFFICE: Any service performed or rendered, whether for profit, control or
nonprofit. Common uses found in this definition shall include but are not
necessarily limited to the following activities:
      1.   Insurance, real estate, financial institutions, finance companies
and other similar business and professional offices.
      2.   Medical clinics, doctors, dentists, lawyers, accountants,
architects, designers offices.
      3.   Business offices, such as district offices, sales offices, or branch
offices.
Any multiple use of the same office facilities will require an individual
registration for each separate use. Accounting records will be used to
determine if separate or multiple uses are being conducted in the same office
facilities.
OWNER: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in a commercial
establishment to maintain and manage its operation.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity. (Ords. 68(8)-1-3, 68(8)-2-14, 71-13-31, 74-12-19, 23-
12-42)
3-1-1-3: CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a commercial
establishment or to engage in business activities as herein enumerated or as
otherwise provided herein without having first obtained a certificate therefor.
(Ords. 68(8)-1-3, 68(8)-2-14, 71-13-31, 74-12-19, 23-12-42)
3-1-1-4: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE:
All commercial establishments with buildings or premises in the Village or
conducting business activities as defined and covered by this Chapter shall
file with the Department of Administrative Services, an application for the
regulatory certificate to operate the commercial establishment or business
activity in the Village no later than April 30 of each year or at such time as
the commercial establishment or business desires to commence operation in the
Village. Application forms for such documents shall be made available by the
Village. (Ords. 68(8)-1-3, 68(8)-2-14, 71-13-31, 74-12-19, 1985 Code, 23-12-42)
3-1-1-5: RESTRICTIONS ON CERTIFICATES:
No certificate for the operation of a commercial establishment or business
activity in the village shall be issued if one or more of the following
conditions are determined by the village manager, or such other officer as may
be designated by the village manager, to exist:
   A.   The building or premises of the commercial establishment or business
activity does not comply with the provisions and terms of the building code,
zoning title, fire regulations, health regulations, or with all ordinances and
regulations of the village.
   B.   The building or premises of the commercial establishment is in a
condition of being unsanitary or unsafe so as to endanger the public safety,
health or welfare.
   C.   The owner of the commercial establishment or business activity or such
legal entity comprising the commercial establishment or business activity is
indebted to the village. (Ords. 68(8)-1-3, 68(8)-2-14, 71-13-31, 74-12-19, 21-
20-91, 23-12-42)
3-1-1-6: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE; TERM; INVESTIGATION; FEES:
   A.   Subject to the terms and provisions of this chapter, the director of
administrative services, or such personnel as may be designated by the director
of administrative services, shall be in charge of issuing certificates. Prior
to the issuance of a certificate, said director of administrative services, or
such personnel as may be designated by the director of administrative services,
shall cause investigations to be made by the health and sanitation officer and
the building, fire and police departments in regard to the applicant, the
business establishment and the facts stated in the application. Said officer
and departments shall make a report of their investigations, favorable or
otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving the request for said
investigation. Where a certificate is issued, it shall begin on October 1 of
the year for which such document is issued and shall terminate on September 30
of the next year. No certificate shall be issued at the yearly rate of fees
except for the full regulatory year; provided, however, where such document is
issued on or after April 1, the regulatory fee shall be one-half (1/2) of the
yearly fee for the unexpired term of the regulatory year.
   B.   The required fee for each certificate issued shall be collected upon
application. In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any regulatory
fee, or part thereof, by reason of death or by any reason of nonuse of the
certificate or discontinuance of the operation of the commercial establishment
or business activity. The cashier will stamp all receipts for new business
applications with the following:
"DEPOSIT ONLY"
DOES NOT CONSTITUTE AUTHORITY TO OPERATE.
CERTIFICATE WILL BE ISSUED AFTER INSPECTION
BY VILLAGE OPERATING DEPARTMENTS.
(Ords. 68(8)-1-3, 68(8)-2-14, 71-13-31, 74-12-19, 1985 Code, Ord. 86-3-11, 23-
12-42)
3-1-1-7: FEE SCHEDULES:
   A.   Payment Of Fees Required: All commercial establishments or business
activities (collectively referred to in this section as "businesses"), and
certain other entities subject to licensing, registration or permitting,
located or taking place within the Village are required to pay the licensing,
registration or permitting fees set forth in the tables below, as applicable,
on an annual basis.
   B.   Licensing, Registration And/Or Fee Year Or Term; Prorations: Except
where otherwise specified in this section:
      1.   The license, registration and/or fee year or term for all fees
specified in Tables 1 through 6 below is from July 1 through June 30 of each
year. For the year or term commencing on July 1, 2025, payment is due by
September 30, 2025, and for all subsequent years, payment is due upon
application by March 31 of each year.
      2.   When a fee is owed for the first time in the second half of a
license, registration and/or fee year or term, it shall be prorated by fifty
percent (50%) for that year or term only.
      3.   All fees must be paid at the time of application. In the event an
application is denied, the fee shall be returned, absent a $50 processing
charge.
      4.   In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any fee, or part
thereof, by reason of death or by any reason of nonuse of the license or
registration or discontinuance of the operation of the commercial establishment
or business activity.
   C.   Square Footage Of Interior Space Calculations: Except where otherwise
indicated, the following rules shall apply to the determination of square
footage of interior space as that term is used in this section and the Tables
below:
      1.   Total square footage of interior space applicable for the
determination of the yearly license fee shall include the sum total of all the
floor area in use or reserved for or retained for the use of the business,
including, but not restricted to, principal and accessory floor area, cellars
and basements, storage, or detached accessory buildings, even though any such
floor area may be temporarily vacant or not in use.
      2.   Businesses that occupy multiple floors in a building will derive
total square-footage by adding the interior square footage of all the floors
they occupy.
      3.   The maximum annual fee that a business is required to pay as their
base licensing fee based on square footage of interior space is five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00).
      4.   Businesses or entities with multiple locations in the Village that
serve as support for the primary business location (e.g., maintenance, storage,
back-office, etc.) derive total square footage of interior space by the sum of
the total interior square footage of all their facilities and locations within
the Village.
      5.   Where a fee is based on square footage, under-reporting of square
footage will be subject to a fine of one dollar ($1.00) per under-reported
square foot.
   D.   Village-Based Businesses: The following Table 1 applies to all village-
based businesses, except in those cases where a business is specifically listed
in Table 2, effective with the licensing period commencing July 1, 2025:
TABLE 1 -                                 Registration Fee $ PLUS License Fee $
Oak Lawn-Based Businesses & Organizations
TABLE 1 -
Oak Lawn-Based Businesses &    Registration Fee $ PLUS License Fee $
Organizations
Churches, Charities &
Registered Non-Profit          $0                 $0
Organizations
Home-occupation                $0                 $75
Video Gaming Terminal                             $1,000 per video gaming
Operators                      $1,000             terminal operating in the
                                                  village
Village businesses (non-home-
based) licensed by the
Illinois Department of Finance $1502              $0
and Professional Regulations
("IDFPR")1
Village businesses with                           $.20 per s.f. of interior
physical location(s) in the    $0                 space
Village (non-home-based)3,4
Any and all other Village-
based businesses not described $0                 $150
above
Notes:
1.   Commercial establishments or business activities licensed by the IDFPR
will pay a single annual registration fee for the establishment or activity
(i.e. legal entity), not per licensed professional.
2.   In the event the business is less than 750 square feet of interior space,
the business may choose to pay a fee of $.20 per s.f. of interior space in
lieu of the flat fee of $150.
3.   Commercial establishments with multiple locations in the village that
operate as separate businesses (e.g., franchise restaurants) will register
each location separately and pay a license fees for each, and each will be
issued their own business license.
4.   Mobile Home Park operators will derive total square footage by adding the
total square footage of the individual mobile homes on the property plus the
square footage of any administrative office(s) on site.
 
   E.   Non-Village Based Businesses: The commercial establishments or business
activities listed below in Table 2 do not have their principal place of
business located within the village, and cannot therefore have their fee
determined on a square footage basis, but are conducting commercial or business
activities within the village. The license fees enumerated in this section are
fees imposed on these non-village based businesses and organizations effective
with the licensing period commencing July 1, 2025:
TABLE 2 -
Non-Oak Lawn Based Businesses & Registration Fee $ PLUS License Fee $
Organizations
TABLE 2 -
Non-Oak Lawn Based Businesses  Registration Fee $ PLUS License Fee $
& Organizations
Billboards, Benches, and Bus   $0                 $100 per location in the
Shelters (Advertising)                            village
Third-party (contracted)       $0                 $50 per machine operating in
Vending & ATM Machines                            the village
                                                  $1,000 per video gaming
Video Gaming Terminal Operator $1,000             terminal operating in the
                                                  village1
Towing Companies               $0                 $1,000 per Towing Vehicle
                                                  operating in the village
Commercial Waste Haulers       $0                 $1,000
Landscapers                    $0                 $100
Junkers/Scrappers              $0                 $50
Ice Cream Truck                $0                 $150 per vehicle operating in
                                                  the village
All other businesses not
detailed above that regularly
provide services or otherwise
operate within the village.    $0                 $150
For purposes of this fee,
"regularly" shall mean more
frequently than once or very
occasionally.
Notes:
1.   Underreporting of gaming terminals is subject to a fine of $5,000 per
underreported machine.
 
   F.   Liquor Licenses: In addition to any fee specified in Table 1 or 2
above, an establishment with a liquor license issued pursuant to chapter 3
(Liquor Control) of this title shall pay the additional liquor license fee as
set forth in Table 3 below, effective with the licensing period commencing July
1, 2025:
TABLE 3 -                        Liquor License (Class) License Fee $
Liquor License Class Description
TABLE 3 -                                  Liquor License (Class) License Fee $
Liquor License Class Description
Packaged Goods (various establishments and
retail stores, other than convenience
stores, engaging in sales of packaged      LIQ-P1                 $1,500
goods, e.g., liquor stores, grocery
stores, drug stores, etc.)
Packaged Goods (Retail) (convenience       LIQ-P2                 $1,000
stores only)
On-Premises Consumption (e.g. taverns,
bars, restaurants, hotels, banquet halls,  LIQ-C                  $750
etc.)
Manufacturers                              LIQ-M                  $500
Non-Profits                                LIQ-NP                 $0
Special Events                             LIQ-SE                 $0
Video Gaming (Supplemental)                LIQ-S-VG               $0
Note: The number of liquor licenses authorized to be issued is set and amended
from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees.
 
   G.   Tobacco Licenses: In addition to any fee specified in Table 1 above, an
establishment with a tobacco license issued pursuant to chapter 15 (Regulation
of Tobacco Products) of this title shall pay the additional tobacco license fee
as set forth in Table 4 below, effective with the licensing period commencing
July 1, 2025:
 
TABLE 4 -
Tobacco Retailer License Class        Tobacco License (Class) License Fee $
Description
Class 1: Grocery stores, convenience
stores, liquor stores and gasoline    TOB-1                   $500
stations
Class 2: All other establishments
excluding grocery stores, convenience TOB-2                   $1,000
stores, and gasoline stations
Note: The number of Tobacco licenses authorized to be issued is set and
amended from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees.
Note: A tobacco retailer's license shall be in addition to, and not in lieu
of, any automatic vending machine operator's license(s) which may be
required relative to the sale of tobacco products.
 
   H.   Other Annual Fees: In addition to any fee specified in Tables 1 through
4 above, any business requiring food safety inspections pursuant to section 8-
2B-6 of this Code shall pay the additional fees set forth in Table 5 below
effective with the licensing period commencing July 1, 2025:
 
TABLE 5 -                                       Other Fee $ Per
Other Annual Fees
Businesses that require food safety inspections $175        Year
 
   I.   Non-Owner Occupied Residential Dwelling Unit Permit Fees: The owner of
any property subject to the Non-Owner Occupied Residential Dwelling Unit
Occupancy Permit Program set forth in Article 6-5B of this Code shall pay the
fees set forth in Table 6 below, effective with the licensing period commencing
July 1, 2025:
 
TABLE 6 -
Non-Owner Occupied Residential Dwelling Unit Permit Fees
Property Type                                    Base Fee $ PLUS $ Per
Residential: Multi-Family Dwellings, Apartments, $100       $100   Unit
Townhomes, Condominiums, Duplexes1
Residential: Single-Family Homes1                $100       $250   Unit
Notes:
1.   Underreporting of units is subject to a fine of $500 per under-
reported non-single-family unit, and $1,250 per single-family home
 
   J.   Commercial Landlord Licensing Fee (Non-Owner Occupied Properties): The
owner of any property subject to the Commercial Landlord Licensing and
Commercial Occupancy Permit Program for Non-Owner Occupied Properties set forth
in Chapter 3-37 of this Code shall pay the fees set forth in Table 7 below,
effective with the licensing period commencing January 1, 2026:
 
TABLE 7 -
Commercial Landlord Licensing Fee (Non-Owner-Occupied Properties)
Property Type              Base Fee $ PLUS $ Per
Commercial Landlords with                    Total square-footage of
Commercial Rental Units as $150       $0.20  occupied, non-exempt commercial
defined in Chapter 3-37 of                   rental units1
this Code
1.   Total square footage shall be calculated using the rules set forth in
subsection C above, except that only spaces meeting the definition of a
commercial rental unit as set forth in Section 3-37-2 of this Code shall be
counted. Vacant spaces may be excluded from the calculation. In addition,
the square footage of any commercial rental unit where it is demonstrated by
the commercial landlord that at least 50% of the gross revenues generated by
the lessee are subject to a municipal sales, video gaming or other village-
imposed tax other than property tax, are exempt from payment of the
licensing fee and their square footage may be excluded from the calculation.
See Section 3-37-4 for additional details.
 
   K.   Miscellaneous Fees: Owners, licensees and permittees seeking certain
other miscellaneous business or commercial activity licenses or permits shall
pay the fees set forth in Table 8 below, as applicable:
 
Activity Type                        Base Permit or License Fee $ PLUS $ Per
Garage, Rummage or Similar Sale (see $25                          $0     Sale
Chapter 3-13)
 
(Ords. 68(8)-1-3, 68(8)-2-14, 71-13-31, 74-12-19, 76-28-58, 77-21-35, 79-24-42,
81-6-11, 85-5-15, 85-10-27; 1985 Code; Ords. 86-3-11, 86-6-15, 86-9-30, 86-11-
46, 87-17-72, 89-21-67, 90-19-79, 92-23-84, 93-14-58, 96-4-16, 96-4-17, 96-7-
32, 96-9-45, 97-9-38, 03-11-41, 03-20-81, 04-03-13, 04-05-21, 08-23-77, 23-12-
42, 25-12-37)
3-1-1-8: LOCATION OF BUSINESS:
   A.   There shall be a business certificate for each place of business or
location. For the purposes of this section, a "place of business" shall be
defined as a building or series of connected buildings on one lot or parcel of
ground, and be operated or owned by the same person and conducting the same
general business activity.
   B.   Where two (2) or more separate businesses, separately owned or
operated, share floor space in the same building or on the same parcel of
ground, then each shall be deemed a separate business and shall be required to
obtain a separate business certificate based on the floor area each separately
uses.
   C.   In the event a commercial establishment moves its place of operation
from one location in the village to another location in the village, charge for
a new regulatory certificate shall be for the established prevailing rate for
the new location, with due credit given for the charge for the original
effective document. (Ords. 68(8)-1-3, 68(8)-2-14, 71-13-31, 74-12-19)
3-1-1-9: RECORDS AND STANDARDS:
The building department shall cause to be maintained a record of all commercial
establishments and commercial regulatory documents which may from time to time
be deemed necessary for the purpose of classifying, inspecting, serving and
regulating all commercial establishments in the village. Subject to the terms
and provisions of this section, upon payment in full of the required document
fee to the village, the village shall issue a certificate or similar evidence
of regulation which shall be displayed by the owner of the commercial
establishment in a conspicuous place. Such evidence of regulation shall bear
the signature of the village president and village clerk. (Ords. 68(8)-1-3, 68
(8)-2-14, 71-13-31, 74-12-19)
3-1-1-10: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE, APPEALS:
   A.   If, after a certificate has been issued by the village, the commercial
establishment or firm is found to be in violation of any of the standards
listed in sections
3-1-1-5 and
3-1-1-9 of this chapter, the inspection officer shall so notify the owner/
operator of the establishment or firm of the violation and set a time limit for
the correction of same commensurate with the seriousness of the violation. If
the violation is not corrected within the time specified or if the violation is
of such a serious nature as to be of immediate danger to the health, safety and
welfare of the people, then the commercial establishment or firm shall be
closed by order of the village manager, until such time as the violation has
been corrected.
   B.   If the commercial establishment or firm is in violation of the
standards of sections
3-1-1-5 and
3-1-1-9 of this chapter, three (3) or more times within the fiscal year or
fails to procure a required certificate within three (3) months after the
required renewal date, the village manager may recommend a "show cause" hearing
before the Appeals and Review Board to show cause why its business certificate
should not be suspended or revoked.
   C.   If the Appeals and Review Board finds sufficient cause to suspend or
revoke the establishment's or firm's business certificate, the business or firm
shall cease operations for the period specified by the Appeals and Review
Board.
   D.   If the business or firm wishes to appeal the decision of the Appeals
and Review Board, it shall apply to the Village Manager, in writing, for a
hearing before the President and Board of Trustees. During the appeal, the
business shall remain closed. The President and Board of Trustees shall not
overturn the suspension or revocation of the business certificate except by a
favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all members of the Board of Trustees.
   E.   In addition to the above procedures in regard to business regulation
certificate revocations for violations of sections
3-1-1-5 and
3-1-1-9 of this section
3-1-1, the provisions of section
3-1-6 of this chapter, in relation to license, permit and business regulation
certificate revocation, shall also apply in regard to the revocation of
business regulation certificates. (Ords. 68(8)-1-3, 68(8)-2-14, 71-13-31, 74-
12-19; 1985 Code; Ords. 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-65)
3-1-1-11: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The terms and provisions of this section shall not be made applicable to any
activity carried on or operated by a governmental institution or jurisdiction
or by any recognized eleemosynary institution or organization, except that said
institutions, jurisdictions or organizations shall comply with conditions set
forth in section
3-1-1-5 of this section
3-1-1. (Ords. 68(8)-1-3, 68(8)-2-14, 71-13-31, 74-12-19, 86-3-11)
3-1-1-12: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the Village Manager to administer
and enforce the terms and provisions of this section
3-1-1, and to make or cause to be made such inspections of buildings or
premises as may be necessary to accomplish such administration or enforcement.
The Village Manager is authorized to order a business closed, in whole or in
part:
      1.   Engaging in unlicensed business activity, until all the required
licenses are obtained, or
      2.   Failing to pay any required license fee or to renew a license. The
Village Manager shall issue a 10-day notice of violation before any closure
under this subsection (a)(2) may take place. For the purposes of this Chapter,
a business that has been issued a cease-and-desist order for a particular
business activity shall be considered closed as to that business activity.
If the Village Manager orders a business closed, whether in its entirety or as
to one or more business activities, the Village Manager shall have a notice or
sign posted on the licensed premises indicating that the business is closed in
its entirety or as to specific business activities and is prohibited from
engaging in them. No person shall remove any such notice or sign unless and
until the business reopens, whether in its entirety or as to the closed
business activities, in compliance with the Code.
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   General: Any person violating any provision of this section
3-1-1, that does not result in closure of the business, shall be fined an
amount not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense; and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
      2.   Business Closure: Any person who continues to operate a business
which has been closed, in whole or in part, by the Village Manager pursuant to
this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than $500.00 nor more than
$1,000.00 for each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. In addition to any other penalty
provided by law, such violation may also be punishable as a misdemeanor by
incarceration in the county jail for a term not to exceed six months under the
procedures set forth in Section 1-2-1.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code and
under the provisions of the Illinois Code of Criminal Procedure.
      3.   Certificate Renewals: A grace period of thirty (30) days begins on
May 1 of each year for the renewal of business certificates. If a commercial
establishment fails to renew its business certificate by May 30 of each year,
an additional fee equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the base fee shall be
charged for each month after May 30. Delinquency may also result in suspension
and/or revocation of the right to conduct commercial activities within the
Village. (Ords. 68(8)-1-3, 68(8)-2-14, 71-13-31, 74-12-19; 1985 Code; Ord. 99-
5-11, 21-17-81)
3-1-2: PERMIT APPLICATION AND FEES:
Applications for all permits required by this Code or by ordinance shall be
made in writing to the Village Clerk in the absence of the provision to the
contrary. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
needed for the proper guidance of the Village officials in the issuing of the
permit. Such application shall contain a statement that the applicant gives
permission to the Village, its employees or agents, to enter the premises at
any time for the purpose of inspection. Unless otherwise provided, forms for
all permits and applications therefor shall be prepared and kept on file by the
Village Clerk.
In the absence of provisions to the contrary, all fees and charges for permits
shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor is made to the
Village Clerk. (1951 Code 7-1, 7-3, 7-6)
3-1-3: SIGNATURES REQUIRED:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the President and
Village Clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary. (1951 Code 7-4)
3-1-4: INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Procedure For Investigations: Upon the receipt of an application for a
license or permit where this Code or ordinances of the Village necessitate an
inspection or investigation before the issuance of such permit or license, the
Village Clerk shall refer such application to the proper officer for making
such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time of such receipt.
The officer charged with the duty of making the investigations or inspection
shall make a report thereof favorable or otherwise, within ten (10) days after
receiving the application or a copy thereof.
      1.   The Health and Sanitation Officer shall make or cause to be made all
inspections in connection with such licenses for the protection of health, the
care and handling of food and the prevention of nuisances and of the spread of
disease.
      2.   The Director of Office of Quality Control shall make or cause to be
made any such inspections relative to the construction of buildings or other
structures.
      3.   The Fire Department shall make inspections relative to fire hazards.
This initial inspection shall be accompanied by a fire and safety inspection
and plan review fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Any subsequent inspection
shall have the fire and safety inspection and plan review fee waived. The fee
imposed shall not apply to any religious institution.
      4.   All other investigations, except where otherwise provided, shall be
made by the Chief of Police or by some officer designated by the Manager.
   B.   Inspections, Analyses:
      1.   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation or permitted activity are
provided for or required, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with
any provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or permittee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected,
to admit thereto for the purpose of making such inspection, any officer or
employee of the Village who is authorized or directed to make such inspection
at any reasonable time that admission is requested.
      2.   Whenever the analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure conformance with any provision or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of any licensee or permittee whose business or
activity is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or
employee of the Village requesting the same, sufficient samples of such
material or commodity for such analysis upon request.
      3.   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the
President may revoke the license or permit of any person who refuses to permit
any officer or employee who is authorized to make such inspection or take such
sample to make the inspection or take an adequate sample of the desired
commodity or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his duty in making such inspection. Provided that no license or
permit shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the
licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the Village,
stating that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to
make the inspection or obtain the sample. (Ord. 18-24-86)
3-1-5: TERM AND TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE, PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE:
   A.   A business license, certificate or permit shall be purely a personal
privilege, good for not to exceed one year after issuance unless sooner revoked
as in this chapter provided, and shall not constitute property; nor shall it be
subject to attachment, garnishment or execution; nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily; or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated. Except as provided in subsection B of this section, such business
license, certificate or permit shall not descend by the laws of the testate or
intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the holder of the
business license, certificate or permit; provided, that executors or
administrators of the estate of any such deceased holder, and the trustee of
any insolvent or bankrupt holder, when such estate consists in part of such
business under order of the appropriate court, may exercise the privileges of
the deceased's or insolvent's or bankrupt's business license, certificate or
permit after the death of such descendent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy
until the expiration of such business license, certificate or permit, but not
longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such
holder.
   B.   A business license, certificate or permit may, upon the holder's death,
descend only to the holder's spouse or children and in the event such holder is
not survived by a spouse or child then to the holder's mother or father;
provided, however, any such survivor must possess the same qualifications
required by the deceased holder. The passage of a license pursuant to the terms
of this subsection shall not require the payment of any fees.
Nothing contained in this subsection shall create any vested or property right
in any business license, certificate or permit in any person whatsoever, nor
shall it limit or restrict the right of the Village to at any time amend or
repeal this subsection.
   C.   When the licensee is a partnership or corporation, the business
license, certificate or permit shall terminate whenever fifty percent (50%) or
more of the ownership interest therein changes from that shown on the original
application. In such event, the partnership or corporation, through its
officers, must make application for the issuance of a new business license,
certificate or permit as provided herein. Provided, however, that the
provisions of this subsection shall not apply where the transfer of an
ownership interest is made to an owner shown on the original application who
owned fifty percent (50%) or more of the ownership interest of such partnership
or corporation at the time the original application was filed with the Village.
(Ord. 82-7-25)
3-1-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSES, PERMITS AND BUSINESS REGULATION CERTIFICATES
AUTHORIZED:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, the term "business license" shall
mean any business license, permit or business regulation certificate issued by
the Village of Oak Lawn.
   B.   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the President
and Board of Trustees shall have the authority to fine a business licensee,
revoke the business license or suspend the business license (in whole or in
part) after notice and a hearing in the manner set forth below for any of the
following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the business license;
      2.   Fraud, deceptive practices, misrepresentation, or false statement
made in the course of carrying on the business;
      3.   Any violation of Federal law, State law or Village ordinance with
respect to the operation of the business or the condition of the business
premises;
      4.   Conviction of the licensee, operator or manager of any crime, felony
or misdemeanor committed on the business premises, including, but not limited
to, pornography, prostitution, gambling, illegal possession or distribution of
drugs or cannabis, bribery of a governmental official, etc.;
      5.   Conviction of any customer of any crime, felony or misdemeanor
committed on the business premises with the sufferance or permission of the
licensee, operator or manager, including, but not limited to, pornography,
prostitution, gambling, illegal possession or distribution of drugs or
cannabis, bribery of a governmental official, etc.;
      6.   Conducting the business in an unlawful manner or in such manner as
to constitute a nuisance or breach of the peace or menace to the health, safety
or general welfare of the public;
      7.   Failure of the business licensee to pay any fine or penalty owing to
the Village;
      8.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling or any interference with
a duly authorized Village officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections in the manner provided by law.
   C.   If the President and Board of Trustees have reason to believe that any
licensee or establishment holding a business license is in violation of or has
violated any cause listed in subsection B of this section, the President and
Board of Trustees may commence a hearing in the manner set forth below and a
Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the Village President with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees to conduct said hearing.
      1.   Notice: Notice of the hearing to fine a business licensee, revoke
the business license or suspend a business license shall be given by the
Village Manager in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint
and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage
prepaid, to the licensee at his or her last known address at least five (5)
days prior to the date set for the hearing.
      2.   Filing Of Copy Of Notice With Hearing Officer: A copy of such notice
shall be filed with the Hearing Officer as soon as practicable at the place and
in the manner he or she shall from time to time direct.
      3.   Hearing: The hearing will be heard and adjudicated by a Hearing
Officer appointed by the Village President with the consent of the Village
Board. Parties shall be provided with the opportunity for a hearing during
which they may be represented by counsel, present witnesses and cross examine
opposing witnesses. The Village Manager or his designee shall present the case
on behalf of the Village. Parties may request the Hearing Officer to issue
subpoenas to direct the attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and the
production of relevant documents. Hearings shall be scheduled with reasonable
promptness, provided that the hearings scheduled in all nonemergency
situations, if requested by the respondent, shall have at least fifteen (15)
days after service of notice to prepare for the hearing. For purposes of this
subsection C3, "nonemergency situation" means any situation that does not
reasonably constitute a threat to the public interest, safety or welfare. If
service is provided by mail, the fifteen (15) day period shall begin to run on
the day that the notice is deposited in the mail.
      4.   Rules Of Evidence Shall Not Govern: The formal and technical rules
of evidence do not apply in any adjudicatory hearing provided for under this
section. Evidence may be admitted so long as it is of a type commonly relied
upon by reasonable prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs. Hearsay may
be admitted if more reliable evidence is not available. The Hearing Officer's
finding must be supported by the kind of evidence on which reasonable people
are accustomed to rely in serious affairs.
      5.   Burden Of Proof: The burden shall be upon the Village to prove by a
preponderance of the evidence that the alleged violation occurred.
      6.   Recommendation: Within fourteen (14) days of the conclusion of the
hearing, the Hearing Officer shall make a written finding on whether a
violation occurred and a recommendation to the President and Board of Trustees
on the appropriate disposition, which may include:
         a.   Licensee may be fined for each such violation in an amount not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation. Each day that a
violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense; or
         b.   Suspension of business license, either entirely or only with
respect to a certain aspect of the business, for cause. If the business license
is suspended, the suspension shall remain in effect for not less than one day
nor more than thirty (30) days; or
         c.   Revocation of the business license which such the revocation
shall remain in effect for not less than thirty (30) days nor more than two (2)
years.
   D.   The President and Village Board shall take final action on the Hearing
Officer's finding and recommendations.
   E.   If the President and Board of Trustees determine that the business
licensee has violated any of the provisions of subsection B of this section,
the licensee may be fined for each such violation in an amount not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation. Each day that a violation
occurs shall be deemed a separate offense.
   F.   In lieu of or in addition to a fine, the President and Board of
Trustees may revoke the business license for cause. If the business license is
revoked, the revocation shall remain in effect for not less than thirty (30)
days nor more than two (2) years.
   G.   In lieu of or in addition to a fine, the President and Board of
Trustees may suspend the business license, either entirely or only with respect
to a certain aspect of the business, for cause. If the business license is
suspended, the suspension shall remain in effect for not less than one day nor
more than thirty (30) days. (Ord. 16-18-72)
3-1-7: BUSINESS REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
3-1-7-1: DISCLOSURE OF OWNERSHIP INTEREST IN ENTITIES:
Whenever any corporation, partnership, association, business trust, estate, two
(2) or more persons having a joint or common interest, other commercial or
legal entity, trustee of a land trust, or any beneficiary or beneficiaries
thereof make applications to the Village for action requiring an ordinance, or
ordinance amendment, permit or license, Board of Trustees approval, or other
Village department or agency approval, with respect to sale or purchase of real
estate, zoning, licensing, building or occupancy permit, vacation of streets or
alleys, leases and contracts, the following disclosures and information shall
be certified and attached to the application:
   A.   In the case of a corporation whose shares are registered on a national
securities exchange pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the names
and addresses of all shareholders owning shares equal to or in excess of ten
percent (10%) of the proportionate ownership interest and the percentage of
interest of each therein; or
In the case of a corporation whose shares are not registered on a national
securities exchange pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, a list of
the names and addresses of all shareholders and the percentage of interest of
each therein.
Any corporation required by law to file a statement providing substantially the
information required by this subsection with any other governmental agency may
file a duplicate of such statement.
   B.   In the case of partnerships, associations, two (2) or more persons
having a joint or common interest, the name and address of each partner or
associate or person and the percentage of interest of each therein.
   C.   In the case of land trusts, business trusts, estates, or other similar
commercial or legal entity, the identity of each beneficiary of such trust,
estate, or commercial or legal entity, including name, address and percentage
of interest of each therein.
   D.   Whenever any interest required to be disclosed in subsections A, B and
C of this section is held by an agent or agents, or a nominee or nominees, the
principals for whom such agents or nominees hold such interest shall also be
disclosed. The application of a spouse or any other party, if constructively
controlled by another person, or legal entity as set forth above, shall state
the name and address of such person or entity possessing such constructive
control and the relationship under which such control is being or may be
exercised. Whenever a stock or beneficial interest is held by a corporation or
other legal entity, such shareholder or beneficiary shall also make disclosure
as required by subsections A, B and C of this section.
   E.   A statement under oath that the applicant has withheld no disclosures
as to economic interests in the undertaking nor reserved any information, data
or plan as to the intended use or purpose for which it seeks Board of Trustees
or other Village department or agency action.
All disclosures and information shall be current as of the date upon which the
application is presented to the Board of Trustees or other Village department
or agency, and shall be maintained current until such time as the Board of
Trustees or other village department or agency shall take action on the
application.
Notwithstanding any of the above provisions, the village attorney may require
any such additional information from any applicant which is reasonably intended
to achieve full disclosure relevant to the application for action by the board
of trustees or other village department or agency.
Any failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall render any
ordinance, ordinance amendment, permit or license, board of trustee approval or
other village department or agency approval or other village action in behalf
of the applicant failing to comply, voidable at the option of the board of
trustees. (Ords. 76-11-22, 83-24-66)
3-1-7-2: NUISANCE BUSINESSES PROHIBITED:
No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact. (1951 Code 7-11)
3-1-7-3: RENTAL UNITS, INTEREST ON SECURITY DEPOSITS:
   A.   A lessor of residential real property who receives a security deposit
from a lessee to secure the payment of rent or compensation for damage to
property shall pay interest to the lessee computed from the date of the deposit
at a rate of one-hundredth of a percent (0.01%) per year on any such deposit
held by the lessor for more than one year, provided, however, that all terms
and conditions of the lease have been fully complied with by the lessee. In the
event the lessee fails to fully comply with all terms and conditions of the
lease, the lessor may retain all interest earned on any such security deposit.
   B.   When a lease is terminated by either party and interest on a security
deposit is due, the lessor has the right to inspect the apartment for damages
in order to determine whether the security deposit shall be refunded, and
should there be damages in excess of the amount of said security deposit, the
interest due thereon need not be paid but may be applied to reduce the damages.
   C.   When the term of the lease is for two (2) years or less, the interest
due the lessee on the security deposit shall be retained by the lessor and paid
to the lessee within thirty (30) days after the end of the term, upon
inspection of the premises by the lessor and determination that no damages,
other than those caused by ordinary use, have occurred.
   D.   When the term of a lease is greater than two (2) years, the interest
owed thereon by the lessor shall be paid every two (2) years and at the
expiration of the lease, in each instance after an inspection for damages by
the lessor.
   E.   When a lease in excess of six (6) months is renewed, at its expiration
the lessor shall pay the lessee all interest accrued to the renewal date within
thirty (30) days after said expiration date. (Ord. 75-26-101; 1985 Code; Ords.
92-08-36, 16-02-09)
3-1-7-4: COMMUNITY EVENTS CALENDAR; SCHEDULING OF EVENTS, CARNIVALS, ETC.:
   A.   Community Events Calendar: The village clerk shall maintain a community
events calendar upon which the dates of all carnivals, public solicitation of
funds and other related public affairs shall be scheduled.
   B.   Time For Filing Application For Event:
      1.   The clerk shall not accept an application for a carnival or other
public event less than thirty (30) days prior to the event.
      2.   Nonprofit organizations may request in writing that events be
scheduled on the community events calendar no more than one year in advance.
      3.   Nonprofit organizations having annual events shall have a preference
for dates the succeeding year if a request is made within five (5) business
days after a just concluded scheduled event.
   C.   Carnivals: See section
3-4H-3 of this title.
   D.   Appeals: If, upon application, a person or organization is denied a
particular date on the community events calendar by the village clerk, an
appeal in writing may be made to the village manager. If the scheduling cannot
be resolved by the village manager within fifteen (15) days after receipt of
the written appeal, the person or organization may request by letter a hearing
by the board of trustees.
   E.   Applicability Of Other Code Provisions: Nothing in this section, other
than the manner of applying for dates shall repeal the regulations of
solicitors 1  by the village or the regulation of carnivals 2 . (Ord. 76-10-21)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 5 of this title.
2 2. See chapter 4, article H of this title.
3-1-7-5: GUN SHOP LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   For purposes of this section and section
3-1-1-7 of this chapter, a "gun shop" shall be defined as a commercial business
location within the village at which any person licensed by the federal bureau
of alcohol, tobacco and firearms as a "dealer" pursuant to 18 USC section 923
(a)(3)(B) or section 923(a)(3)(C) and possessing a "type 01" federal license
(excluding any person licensed solely as a "collector" pursuant to 18 USC
section 923(b) and possessing a "type 03" federal license) engages in the
business (as defined in 18 USC section 921(a)(21)) of selling firearms 1 .
   B.   As of the effective date of this section (November 19, 1994), the
village clerk shall not issue a gun shop license to any person for any gun shop
that is located within one-fourth (0.25) mile of the grounds of a school (any
public or private elementary or secondary school, community college, college or
university) or public park (any land or buildings set apart for public
recreation and owned by any unit of government or any land owned by the
village), as measured from the property lines of the respective properties.
   C.   The restriction on location contained in subsection B of this Section
shall not apply to any location which, on the effective date of this Section
(November 19, 1994), was occupied by a person in possession of a validly issued
gun shop license. (Ords. 94-21-98, 95-16-58)
 
Notes
1 3. As defined by 430 ILCS 65/1.1.
3-1-7-6: DISCLOSURE OF ILLINOIS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY CONTACTS:
   A.   As a condition of any business license, permit or business regulation
certificate issued pursuant to this Code, the holder of said business license,
permit or business regulation certificate shall be required to notify the
Village's Department of Quality Control in the event that said business
licensee, permittee or business regulation certificate holder is contacted by
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency relative to any project or
property located within the boundaries of the Village. (Ord. 96-4-19)
3-1-8: CONSUMER FRAUD AND DECEPTIVE PRACTICES:
3-1-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Section
3-1-8, certain words and terms are hereby defined as follows:
ADVERTISEMENT: The attempt by publication, dissemination, solicitation or
circulation to induce directly or indirectly any person to enter into any
obligation or acquire any title or interest in any merchandise and includes
every word devised to disguise any form of business solicitation by using such
terms as "renewal", "invoice", "bill", "statement" or "reminder", to create an
impression of existing obligation when there is none, or other language to
mislead any person in relation to any sought after commercial transaction.
MERCHANDISE: Any objects, wares, goods, commodities, intangibles, real estate
or services.
PERSON: Any natural person or his legal representative, partnership,
corporation (domestic and foreign), company, trust, business entity or
association, and any agent, employee, salesman, partner, officer, director,
member, stockholder, associate, or trustee thereof.
SALE: Any sale, offer for sale, or attempt to sell any merchandise for cash or
on credit. (Ord. 86-11-45)
3-1-8-2: CONSUMER FRAUD AND DECEPTIVE PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to act, use or employ any deception, fraud,
false pretense, false promise, misrepresentation, or to conceal, suppress, or
omit any material fact with intent that others rely upon such concealment,
suppression or omission, in connection with the sale for cash or on credit or
advertisement of any merchandise, whether or not any person has in fact been
misled; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall apply to the
owner or publisher of newspapers, magazines, publications or printed matter
wherein such advertisement appears or to the owner or operator of a radio or
television station which disseminates such advertisement when the owner,
publisher or operator has no knowledge of the intent, design or purpose of the
advertiser; and provided, further, that nothing herein contained shall apply to
any advertisement which is subject to and complies with the rules and
regulations of, and the statutes administered by the Federal Trade Commission.
Acts or omissions which are considered a violation of this Section shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Representing that merchandise is new, if it is deteriorated, altered,
reconditioned, reclaimed, used or second-hand.
   B.   Representing that merchandise or services are of a particular standard,
grade or quality, or that merchandise is represented to be of a particular
style or model, if it is not.
   C.   Failing to deliver ordered merchandise, failing to complete a contract
for services or failing to complete a contract for services and merchandise,
within the time period specified in the order or contract, or, within a period
of sixty (60) days from the date of order or contract if no time period for
completion and/or delivery is stated in the order or contract, unless the
customer is notified in writing of the reason for the delay and such
merchandise and/or services are delivered and/or performed, respectively,
within thirty (30) days of the date originally set forth in the order or
contract as the final due date for delivery and/or completion, or, within a
period of ninety (90) days from the date of order or contract if no time period
for completion and/or delivery is stated in the order or contract, or a refund
is offered within said additional thirty (30) day period.
   D.   Making false or misleading statements of fact concerning the reasons
for, existence of, or amounts of price reductions, or engaging in any other
pricing conduct causing confusion or misunderstanding.
   E.   Representing that merchandise or services are those of another, when,
in fact, they are not.
   F.   Causing confusion or misunderstanding concerning the source,
sponsorship, approval or certification of merchandise or services.
   G.   Causing confusion or misunderstanding or false or deceptive
representation concerning affiliation, connection or association with, or
certification by another.
   H.   Representing that merchandise or services have sponsorship approval
concerning the source of or certification of merchandise or services when, in
fact, they do not have such approval or sponsorship.
   I.   Failing to state a material fact, if such failure tends to deceive or
mislead.
   J.   Advertising for sale at a stated price any items when sufficient
quantities of said advertised items are not readily available to be sold to
purchasers at the advertised price during the effective period of the
advertisement for sale. For the purposes of this Section "readily available"
shall mean available to the customer in an area of the store normally used to
display this type of merchandise, except in a case where the space available
for the items is limited, a sample of the items may be placed in a prominent
location, accompanied by a prominent, written notice clearly stating that the
items are in stock and may be obtained upon request and "sufficient quantities"
shall mean available in quantities sufficient to meet reasonably expected
customer demand through medium response.
   K.   Charging a higher amount of tax than the legal rate set forth by laws
and regulations existing at the time of sale. (Ords. 86-11-45, 86-13-55)
3-1-8-3: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating the provisions of this Section
3-1-8 shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), for each offense. In addition to said
fine, any violation of any of the provisions of this Section
3-1-8 may be grounds for revocation of any license, permit or business
regulation certificate issued by the Village to any such violator, and in
relation thereto, the revocation provisions of Section
3-1-8-4 of this Chapter shall be applicable. (Ords. 86-11-45, 99-5-11)
3-1-8-4: REVOCATION OF LICENSES, PERMITS AND/OR BUSINESS REGULATION
CERTIFICATES - CONSUMER FRAUD AND DECEPTIVE PRACTICES HEARING BOARD:
Complaints And Enforcement:
   A.   Written Complaint Required: Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved
in any manner by a violation of any provision of Section
3-1-8-2 of this Chapter involving goods and/or services with a value of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) or more, or, the Village President, the Village
Manager, the Village Clerk or any Village Trustee, if he or she has knowledge
of an alleged violation of any provision of Section
3-1-8-2 of this Chapter, involving goods and/or services with a value of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) or more, may file a written complaint with the
Village Manager. The complaint shall be under oath and shall state the
following:
      1.   The name and address of the complainant.
      2.   The name and address of the person, persons, firm or corporation
against whom the complaint is brought.
      3.   A brief summary of the facts surrounding the alleged violation of
Section
3-1-8-2 of this Chapter.
      4.   The name and address of all persons believed to have knowledge
concerning the alleged violation.
The Village Manager's office shall provide a printed complaint form. No fee
shall be charged for filing a complaint.
   B.   Complaint Filed: After the filing of the complaint, the Village Manager
shall, within ten (10) days, do the following:
      1.   Serve a copy of the complaint personally or by certified mail on the
person, persons, firm or corporation charged.
      2.   Begin discussions with the parties involved.
      3.   File a preliminary written report with the President and Board of
Trustees outlining the discussions and the action taken. Said report shall also
include a copy of the complaint.
   C.   Investigation: The Village Manager shall investigate the complaint, and
if he or she determines that probable cause exists in support of the
allegations of the complaint, he or she shall set a date for a conference and
notify the parties of the time and place thereof. At such conference, the
Village Manager shall interview the complainant, the aggrieved party if other
than the complainant, and the person, persons, or individuals from the firm or
corporation against whom the complaint has been directed, and shall make every
effort to resolve the complaint by conciliation. The Village Manager shall keep
a log of his or her efforts at conciliation.
   D.   Hearing Decision: If the Village Manager's efforts at conciliation
fail, the Village Manager can either advise the parties to handle the matter
through either the court system or through the appropriate administrative
agency, or the Village Manager can bring the matter before the President and
Board of Trustees. If the Village Manager does not elect to bring the matter
before the President and Board of Trustees, he or she shall advise the
complainant of the complainant's right to bring the matter before the President
and Board of Trustees. In addition, if the Village Manager does not elect to
bring the matter before the President and Board of Trustees, the Village
President, Village Clerk or any Village Trustee may bring the matter before the
President and Board of Trustees. If the matter is brought before the President
and Board of Trustees, the President and Board of Trustees shall be provided
with copies of the Village Manager's files on the matter, and a recommendation
from the Village Manager.
   E.   Board Determination: If the matter is brought before the President and
Board of Trustees, the President and Board of Trustees, by a majority vote, can
either:
      1.   Decide not to proceed further with the matter and refer the
complainant to the courts or an appropriate administrative agency if the
complainant wishes to proceed further with the complaint.
      2.   Refer the matter to the Village Prosecutor for prosecution on the
appropriate Village court date.
      3.   Refer the matter to the Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Practices
Hearing Board for hearing on the alleged violation of Section
3-1-8-2 of this Chapter.
If the President and Board of Trustees cannot decide upon a course of action by
a majority vote, there shall be no further action in regard to the matter by
the Village.
   F.   The Consumer Fraud And Deceptive Practices Hearing Board: The Consumer
Fraud and Deceptive Practices Hearing Board shall consist of the Village
President and all Trustees currently holding office. Said Consumer Fraud and
Deceptive Practices Hearing Board shall meet on an as needed basis to hear
consumer fraud and deceptive practice complaints referred to it by the
President and Board of Trustees.
   G.   Hearing By Consumer Fraud And Deceptive Practices Hearing Board: Such
hearing shall be conducted upon notice by certified mail to all parties, at
least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. The Hearing Board shall provide a
court reporter to take a transcript of the hearing. At the hearing, the
complainant shall have the burden of proof to prove, by a preponderance of the
evidence, that the person, persons, firm or corporation, against whom the
complaint has been brought has/have violated Section
3-1-8-2 of this Chapter. All evidence shall be under oath, administered by an
officer authorized to administer oaths. All parties may be represented by
counsel at their election and shall have the right to call witnesses and to
cross examine witnesses. At the close of the hearing, the Hearing Board shall
issue written findings of fact.
   H.   Action By The Hearing Board: At the close of the hearing, the Hearing
Board may take any one of the following actions:
      1.   Resolve the complaint by conciliation;
      2.   Dismiss the complaint;
      3.   Refer the matter to the Village Prosecutor for prosecution on the
appropriate Village court date;
      4.   Suspend the business license, permit and/or business regulation
certificate of the person, persons, firm or corporation against whom the
complaint was brought for a period of not more than twenty one (21) days;
      5.   Revoke the business license, permit and/or business regulation
certificate of the person, persons, firm or corporation against whom the
complaint was brought. In the event that the Hearing Board's order is for
revocation, said person, persons, firm or corporation shall not be allowed to
reapply for a business license, permit and/or business regulation certificate
for a period of six (6) months following the revocation. In addition, any
decision of the Hearing Board to revoke any business license, permit or
business regulation certificate shall be subject to an automatic appeal to the
President and Board of Trustees.
   I.   Limitation Of Time To File Complaints: Any complaint shall be barred
from consideration unless it is filed with the Village Manager within six (6)
months after the alleged consumer fraud or deceptive practice occurred.
   J.   Issue Of Subpoenas: The complainant, the person, persons, firm or
corporation charged, the Village Manager, or Hearing Board on its own motion,
may have subpoenas issued in the name of the Hearing Board for persons to
appear at hearings before the Hearing Board and for the examination of
documents. Subpoenas shall only be issued to persons or for documents which
have a substantial evidentiary connection with a complaint. Service of such
subpoenas shall be made in the same manner as in civil actions and shall be
enforceable through the Circuit Court of Cook County. (Ord. 86-11-45)
3-1-9: CONTRACTORS WORKING ON PROJECTS FOR THE VILLAGE; LICENSES:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code, in the event that any
contractor who has been awarded a contract to do work for the Village does not
have any and all required Village licenses, said contractor may not be required
to obtain said licenses, but shall in this case be required to obtain, in lieu
thereof, a temporary work certificate from the Department of Quality Control.
Said temporary work certificate shall be issued at no fee and shall authorize
said contractor to work within the Village solely for the purposes of
performing the work to be done under the contract with the Village. If said
contractor desires to do other work within the Village, said contractor shall
be required to obtain all necessary licenses, permits and bonds as required by
this Code. (Ord. 90-13-63)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-2-2: Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-2-3: Municipal Use Tax
3-2-4: Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
3-2-5: Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
3-2-6: Hotel And Motel Occupancy Tax
3-2-7: Real Estate Transfer Tax
3-2-8: Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
3-2-9: Municipal Replacement Vehicle Tax
3-2-10: Municipal Grocery Retailers' Occupation Tax And Municipal Grocery
Service Occupation Tax
3-2-1: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed 1 : A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property, other than those items of
tangible personal property which are exempt from said tax pursuant to 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1, at retail in this village at the rate of
1.25 percent of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.
   B.   Collection Of Tax: The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties
that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by
the Illinois department of revenue in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-1.
(1951 Code 7-16; Ords. 134, 68-9-19, 69-19-54, 97-21-85, 11-28-69, 12-06-20,
21-02-16)
 
Notes
1 1. This subsection shall be effective July 1, 2012.
3-2-2: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed 2 : A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of making sales of service, in this village at the rate of 1.25
percent of the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by
said servicemen, other than the sale/transfer of those items of tangible
personal property which are exempt from said tax pursuant to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5, either in the form of tangible personal property or
in the form of real estate as an incident to a sale of service while this
section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-5.
   B.   Collection Of Tax: The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties
that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by
the Illinois department of revenue in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-5. (Ords. 68-11-31, 68-33-97, 69-19-55, 97-21-85, 11-28-69, 21-
02-16)
 
Notes
2 2. This subsection shall be effective July 1, 2012.
3-2-3: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions
of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-6 upon the privilege of using in the
municipality any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside
Illinois at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an
agency of Illinois government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%)
of the selling price of such tangible property with selling price to have the
meaning as defined in the use tax act, approved July 14, 1955 1 .
   B.   Collection Of Tax: Such tax shall be collected by the Illinois
department of revenue for all municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid
before the title or certificate of registration for the personal property is
issued. (Ord. 74-32-67)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
3-2-4: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting automobiles in this village at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the gross receipts from such rentals made in the course of such business
while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-7.
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the
village shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report
to the state department of revenue required by sections two and three of "an
act in relation to a tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property to purchasers for use or consumption" approved June
29, 1933, as amended.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (Ords. 81-36-72, 82-
1-2)
3-2-5: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in
this village an automobile which is rented from a renter outside Illinois and
which is titled or registered with an agency of this state's government in this
village at the rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile
while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-8.
   B.   Collection Of Tax: The tax provided for in this section shall be
collected from the persons whose Illinois address for titling or registration
purposes is given as being in this village.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the
Illinois department of revenue. (Ords. 81-37-88, 82-1-3)
3-2-6: HOTEL AND MOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, whenever any of the
following words, terms or definitions are used herein, they shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   HOTEL, MOTEL: Includes every building or structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised and held out to the public to be a place where lodging, or lodging
and food, or apartments, suites, or other accommodations are offered for a
consideration of guests in which ten (10) or more rooms, apartments or suites,
or other accommodations are used for the lodging, or lodging and food, for such
guests.
   PERSON: Any natural person, trustee, receiver, administrator, executor,
conservator, assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, copartnership,
joint venture, club, company, business trust, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, syndicate, society, or any group of individuals acting as a unit,
whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit, or otherwise. Whenever the
term "person" is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the
term as applied to associations shall mean the owners or part-owners thereof,
and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   B.   Tax Imposed: There is hereby levied and imposed upon the use and
privilege of being a transient guest or lodger in a “hotel” or “motel”, as
defined in this section, in the village, a tax equal to eight percent (8%) of
the cost or charge on the gross room rental made by the hotel or motel for
every twenty four (24) hour period or any fraction thereof. If a transient
guest or lodger is staying in a hotel or motel for which a charge is made on a
weekly basis, the amount of the tax shall be equal to eight percent (8%) of
said weekly charge on the gross room rental. This said tax is exclusive of
revenues received from food, beverage and other sales, and shall be applicable
to all rental periods regardless of the total length of stay.
   C.   Payment And Collection:
      1.   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes. It shall be the duty of the operator of every hotel or motel to secure
said tax from the guest or lodger, and to pay over to the director of
administrative services said tax on a quarterly basis.
      2.   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this section
shall secure the said tax from the guest or lodger at the time he collects the
price charged or rent to which it applies. The recipient shall be given an
invoice, receipt, or other statement or memorandum of said price, charge or
rent paid or payable and the tax shall be stated, charged and shown separately
on said documents.
   D.   Exemptions:
      1.   A tax shall not be levied and imposed upon any person who works and
lives in the same hotel or motel; and further provided, that the tax shall not
be levied upon rooms rented or used by directors, officers, agents or employees
of the owner of the hotel or motel when renting or using said rooms for, or in
connection with, the transaction of business. The ultimate incidence of and
liability for payment of said tax shall be borne by the user, lessee or tenant
of said room(s). The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and all
other taxes.
   E.   Administration And Enforcement:
      1.   Inspections, Right Of Owners: The director of administrative
services, or any person so certified as deputy or representative, may enter the
premises of any hotel or motel for inspection and examination of books and
records for the proper administration of this section and enforcement of the
collection of the tax imposed. It is unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder
or interfere with the director of administrative services or the duly
authorized deputy or representative in the discharge of duties in the
enforcement of this section.
      2.   Records Required: It shall be the duty of every person operating a
hotel or motel in the village to keep accurate and complete books and records
to which the director of administrative services, deputy, or representative
authorized, shall at all times have full access, which records shall include a
daily sheet showing:
         a.   The number of hotel or motel rooms rented during the twenty four
(24) hour period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel or motel room
when such occurs; and
         b.   The actual hotel or motel room tax receipts collected for the
date in question.
      3.   Quarterly Tax Returns: Every person operating a hotel or motel shall
file tax returns showing tax receipts received with respect to each hotel or
motel during each three (3) month period ending on March 31, June 30, September
30 and December 31 of each year, within ten (10) days after the end of the
respective date, upon forms prescribed by rules and regulations of the director
of administrative services. At the time of filing said tax returns, the
operator shall pay to the director of administrative services all taxes due for
the period to which the tax return applies. Each return shall be accompanied by
payment to the village of all taxes due and owing for the quarter covered by
the return; provided, however, that ten percent (10%) of the tax due may be
retained as compensation for services rendered in collection and payment of
such tax.
   F.   Failure To Pay Tax:
      1.   Interest And Penalty: In the event of failure by any hotel or motel
owner, manager or operator to collect and pay to the director of administrative
services the tax required hereunder within thirty (30) days after the same
shall be due, interest shall accumulate and be due upon said tax at the rate of
one percent (1%) per month commencing as of the first day of the month
following the month for which the tax was to have been collected. In addition,
a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the tax and interest due shall be assessed
and collected against any hotel or motel owner, manager or operator.
      2.   Suit For Collection: Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax
as herein provided, the village attorney shall, upon the request of the
director of administrative services, bring or cause to be brought an action to
enforce the payment of said tax in behalf of the village in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
      3.   Revocation Of License: If the village president, after hearing held,
shall find that any person has wilfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by
this section, he may suspend or revoke all village licenses held by such tax
evader. The operator shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing to
be held not less than five (5) days after notice of the time and place of the
hearing, said notice, addressed to him at his last known place of business.
Pending notice, hearing and finding, any license which such person may possess
shall be temporarily suspended by the village president. Any suspension or
revocation of any license shall not release or discharge the operator of a
hotel or motel from his civil liability for the payment of the tax nor from
prosecution for such offense. (Ords. 76-36-76, 77-1-1; 1985 Code; Ords. 91-04-
19, 92-17-65, 09-01-02, 23-21-79)
3-2-7: REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX:
   A.   Definitions:
   PERSON: Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor, conservator,
assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, copartnership, joint
venture, club, company, joint stock company, business trust, municipal
corporation, political subdivision of the state of Illinois, domestic or
foreign corporation, association, syndicate, society, or any group of
individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal,
nonprofit, or otherwise, and the United States or any instrumentality thereof.
Whenever the term "person" is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty, the term as applied to associations shall mean the owners or part-
owners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   RECORDATION: The recording of deeds with the Office of Recorder of Deeds or
the registration of deeds with the Registrar of Titles of Cook County,
Illinois.
   VALUE: The amount of the full, actual consideration for any transfer covered
hereunder, including the amount of any lien or liens assumed by the grantee or
purchaser.
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on the transfer of title to real estate
located in the Village as evidenced by the recordation of a deed by any person
or by the delivery of any deed or assignment of interest of said real property,
whether investing the owner with the beneficial interest in or legal title to
said property or merely the possession or use thereof for any purpose or to
secure future payment of money or the future transfer of any such real
property. The tax imposed shall be five dollars ($5.00) for every one thousand
dollar ($1,000.00) value or fraction thereof as stated in the declaration.
   C.   Liability For Tax: The primary liability for payment of said tax shall
be borne by the grantor or seller involved in any such transaction; provided,
however, it shall be unlawful for the grantee or purchaser to accept a
conveyance if the transfer tax has not been paid. If the tax has not been paid
and the stamps affixed to the deed, then the grantee's title shall be subject
to the lien provided in subsection I hereof and the grantee or purchaser shall
be liable for payment of the tax. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to
any and all other taxes.
   D.   Declaration of Transfer:
      1.   At the time the tax is paid, there shall also be presented to the
Finance Director, on a form prescribed by him, a declaration signed by at least
one of the sellers or grantors and also signed by at least one of the
purchasers or grantees involved in the transaction, or by their attorneys or
agents, which declaration shall state the full consideration for the property
so transferred and shall be deemed a confidential record by the Village Clerk.
The declaration shall be submitted to the Village no less than five (5)
business days before the transfer of the property occurs, unless the Village
agrees, in its sole discretion, to process the declaration on an expedited
basis and the seller or grantor pays the Village an expedited processing fee of
one hundred dollars ($100.00). Where the declaration is signed by an attorney
or agent on behalf of sellers or buyers who have the power of direction to deal
with the title to the real estate under a land trust agreement, the trustees
being the mere repository of record legal title with a duty of conveying the
real estate only when and if directed in writing by the beneficiary or
beneficiaries having the power of direction, said attorney or agent need only
identify the land trust which is the repository of record legal title and not
the beneficiary or beneficiaries having the power of direction under the land
trust agreement.
      2.   A signed copy of the real estate transfer declaration filed pursuant
to section 3 of the Real Estate Transfer Act of the State of Illinois 1  shall
be filed with the Village Clerk by the grantee of any deed or assignment of
beneficial interest within ten (10) days after delivery of the deed or
assignment of beneficial interest, or at the time of payment of the tax herein
levied or imposed, whichever first occurs.
      3.   No trustee of real estate shall accept an assignment of beneficial
interest in real estate located in the Village without first obtaining a real
estate transfer declaration from the assignor and assignee and unless revenue
stamps in the required amount, as met forth in this Section, have been affixed
to the assignment.
   E.   Deed Contents: Every deed shall show the data of the transaction which
it evidences, the names of the grantor and grantee, and a legal description of
the property to which it relates.
   F.   Exemptions:
      1.   The tax imposed by this Section shall not apply to the following
transactions, provided said transaction in each case is accompanied by a signed
declaration form submitted to the Village, in the format required in Subsection
D1 above, setting forth the facts or such other certificate, information or
records as the Finance Director may require:
         a.   Transactions involving property acquired by or from any
governmental body or by any corporation, society, association, foundation or
institution organized and operated exclusively for charitable, religious or
education purposes;
         b.   Transactions in which the deeds secure debt or other obligations;
         c.   Transactions in which the deeds, without additional
consideration, confirm, correct, modify or supplement deeds previously
recorded;
         d.   Transactions in which the actual consideration is less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00);
         e.   Transactions in which the deeds are tax deeds;
         f.   Transactions in which the deeds are releases of property which is
security for a debt or other obligation;
         g.   Transactions in which deeds are partition deeds;
         h.   Transactions made pursuant to mergers, consolidations or
transfers or sales of substantially all of the assets of a corporation pursuant
to plans of reorganization;
         i.   Transactions between subsidiary corporations and their parents
for no consideration other than the cancellation or surrender of the subsidiary
corporation's stock;
         j.   Transactions wherein there is an actual exchange of real property
except that the money difference of money's worth paid from one or the other
shall not be exempt from the tax;
         k.   Transactions representing transfers subject to the imposition of
a documentary stamp tax imposed by the government of the United States; and
         l.   A transfer by lease.
         m.   Transactions in which the deeds are issued to a holder of a
mortgage, as defined by Illinois Revised Statutes, chapter 110, paragraph 15-
103, pursuant to a mortgage foreclosure proceeding or pursuant to a transfer in
lieu of foreclosure.
      2.   The taxes imposed by this Section shall not be imposed on or
transferred by an executor or administrator to a legatee, heir or distributee
where the transfer is being made pursuant to will or by intestacy, and the tax
provided by this Section shall further be exempt where the transaction is
effected by operation of law or upon delivery or transfer in the following
instances, provided said transfer or transaction in each case is accompanied by
a signed declaration form submitted to the Village, in the format required in
Subsection D1 above, setting forth the facts or such other certificates,
information or records as the Finance Director may require:
         a.   From a descendent to his executor or administrator;
         b.   From a minor to his guardian or from a guardian to his ward upon
attaining majority;
         c.   From an incompetent to his conservator, or similar legal
representative, or from a conservator or similar legal representative to a
former incompetent upon removal of disability;
         d.   From a bank, trust company, financial institution, insurance
company, or other similar entity, or nominee, custodian, or trustee therefor;
to a public officer or com mission, or person designated by such officer or
commission or by a court, in the taking over of its assets, in whole or in
part, under State or Federal law regulating or supervising such institutions,
nor upon redelivery or retransfer by any such transferee or successor thereto;
         e.   From a bankrupt or person in receiver ship due to insolvency to
the trustee in bankruptcy or receiver, from such receiver to such trustee or
from such trustee to such receiver, nor upon redelivery or retransfer by any
such transferee or successor thereto;
         f.   From a transferee under subsection F2a to e inclusive, to his
successor acting in the same capacity, or from one such successor to another;
         g.   From a foreign country or nation thereof to the United States or
any agency thereof, or to the government of any foreign country directed
pursuant to the authority vested in the President of the United States by
section 5(b) of the Trading with the Enemy Act (40 Stat. 415), as amended by
the First War Powers Act (55 Stat. 839);
         h.   From trustees to surviving, substitute, succeeding or additional
trustees of the same trust;
         i.   Upon the death of a joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, to
the survivor or survivors.
   G.   Collection Of Tax, Revenue Stamps Required:
      1.   The Finance Director shall issue no revenue stamps unless (a) the
Village Manager of the Village or his or her designee certifies that all water,
sewer, refuse assessments, judgments, liens, encumbrances and other debts due
and owing to the Village related to the property, whether attached to the
property or owed by the grantor or seller, are paid in full or satisfied; and
(b) the Director of Engineering, Planning and Development of the Village or his
or her designee certifies that a certificate of infiltration and inflow
inspection has been issued for the property pursuant to subsection
9-4D-11J of the Village Code.
      2.   The tax herein levied and imposed shall be collected by the Finance
Director through the sale of revenue stamps, which shall be caused to be
prepared by said Finance Director in such quantities as the Finance Director
may from time to time prescribe. Such revenue stamps shall be in the
denominations of five dollars ($5.00), ten dollars ($10.00), twenty five
dollars ($25.00), fifty dollars ($50.00), one hundred dollars ($100.00), two
hundred dollars ($200.00), three hundred dollars ($300.00), five hundred
dollars ($500.00), one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) and five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and shall be in the
following design:
   Village of   Real Estate Transfer Tax
   Oak Lawn   $000.00
Such revenue stamps shall be available for sale at, and during the regular
hours of, the Village offices or at other locations designated by the Finance
Director. Upon payment of the tax herein levied and imposed, the revenue stamps
so purchased shall be affixed to the deed or other instrument of conveyance.
Any person so using and affixing a revenue stamp or stamps shall cancel it and
so deface it as to render it unfit for reuse by marking it with his initials
and the day, month and year when the affixing occurs. Such markings shall be
made by writing or stamping in indelible ink or by perforating with a machine
or punch. However, the revenue stamp(s) shall not be so defaced as to prevent
ready determination of its denomination and genuineness.
   H.   Refunds:
      1.   Reinvestment: A grantor or seller who has paid to the Finance
Director the tax provided for in subsection G herein shall be entitled to a
refund of such tax within one year of the date of sale provided any such
grantor or seller meets all of the following requirements:
         a.   He owned and occupied the dwelling on the property for which such
tax was paid as his principal residence;
         b.   He did not rent or lease any portion(s) of the dwelling or real
property sold to another person or persons;
         c.   He buys or builds a single-family dwelling or condominium unit
within the Village corporate limits within one year from the payment of the tax
sought to be refunded; and
         d.   He owns and occupies said single-family dwelling or condominium
unit as his principal residence.
      2.   Senior Citizens: A grantor or seller who is a senior citizen and who
has paid to the Finance Director the tax provided for in subsection G herein
shall be entitled to a one-time only refund of such tax within one year of the
date of sale, provided any such senior citizen grantor or seller meets all of
the following requirements:
         a.   He is sixty five (65) years of age or older;
         b.   He owned and occupied the dwelling on the property sold or
transferred, as his primary residence, for more than one year prior to its sale
or transfer;
         c.   He did not rent or lease any portion(s) of the dwelling or real
property to any other person or persons; and
         d.   That if such property was owned by more than one person, at least
one of such owners was sixty five (65) years of age or older, and no other co-
owner was less than sixty (60) years of age at the time of the sale or, if less
than sixty (60) years of age, was either the spouse or child of the owner who
was sixty five (65) years of age or older.
In the event any co-owner who is sixty five (65) years of age or older dies
prior to the sale of a qualifying dwelling, the surviving co-owner who is at
least sixty (60) years of age at the time of the sale of said dwelling shall be
entitled to claim the above refund.
In the event that the applicant for the refund meets all the criteria except
the criteria set forth in subsection H2c above, the applicant shall be entitled
to a partial refund based on the following formulas:
If the portion of the property that was leased was used for residential
purposes only:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a781ed750d1aa6ff1eb7a0acc66ea80b54587244/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3780.png]
 
If the portion of the property that was leased was used for other than
residential purposes only, or a combination of residential and nonresidential
purposes:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a781ed750d1aa6ff1eb7a0acc66ea80b54587244/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3782.png]
 
      3.   Immediate Family Members: A grantor or seller, who has paid to the
Finance Director the tax provided for in subsection G herein, shall be entitled
to a refund of such tax within one year of the date of sale, provided such
grantor or seller meets all of the following requirements:
         a.   He owned and occupied the dwelling on the property for which such
tax was paid as his principal residence;
         b.   He did not rent or lease any portion(s) of the dwelling on the
property to another person or persons; and
         c.   He sold the property and dwelling in question to one of the
following individuals: his child, parent, grandparent, brother, sister or
grandchild. For purposes of this subsection, a step-parent, step-grandparent,
step-sister, step-brother, step-child, and step-grandchild shall be included in
the definitions of parent, grandparent, sister, brother, child and grandchild,
respectively.
   I.   Lien And Foreclosure Of Lien: In the event a deed is filed for
recordation or there is an assignment of beneficial interest conveying real
estate within the corporate limits of the Village without the revenue stamps
provided by this Section, a lien is declared against said real estate conveyed
in the amount of the tax. The fact that the deed or assignment does not contain
an Oak Lawn revenue stamp in an amount equal to five (5) times the amount of
the State transfer tax shall constitute constructive notice of the lien. The
lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose, as in cases of mortgages or
mechanics' liens. Suit to foreclose this lien must be commenced within three
(3) years after the date of recording the deed. Nothing herein shall be
construed as preventing the Village from bringing a civil action to collect the
tax imposed in this Section from any person who has the ultimate liability for
payment of the same, including interest and penalties as herein below provided.
   J.   Proceeds Of Tax:
      1.   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this
Section, including interest and penalties, shall be paid into the Treasury of
the Village and shall be credited to and deposited in the General Fund of the
Village.
      2.   Fifty percent (50%) of the revenues received by the Village from the
tax provided for herein shall be used to establish a fund to be ear-marked for
renovation of Village streets.
   K.   Failure To Pay Tax, Interest And Penalties:
      1.   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any taxes herein provided, or
any purchaser or grantee shall accept a conveyance where the tax has not been
paid, the Village Attorney shall, upon request of the Village Manager, bring or
cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax, including
interest and penalties as hereinbelow provided, on behalf of the Village in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
      2.   In the event of failure by any person to collect and pay to the
Finance Director the tax required herein when the same shall be due, interest
shall accumulate and be due upon said tax at the rate of one percent (1%) per
month commencing as of the first day following the day when the tax became due.
In addition, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the tax and interest due shall
be assessed and collected against any person who shall fail to pay the tax
imposed by this Section.
   L.   Penalty: Any person found guilty in a court of competent jurisdiction
of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with or
resisting or opposing the enforcement of any provision of this Section, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the first
offense.
   M.   Effective Date: This Section shall be in full force and effect from and
after January 1, 1982, provided, however, this Section shall not apply to
contracts executed prior to December 1, 1981.
   N.   Land Trusts: For purposes of subsection H above, where property is
owned by a land trust, the beneficiaries of the trust shall be considered to be
the seller or grantor of said property. (Ords. 81-36-81, 83-13-29, 86-22-90;
1985 Code; Ords. 87-13-52, 94-03-12, 95-03-09, 22-08-26)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. ch. 120, ¶1001 et. seq.
3-2-8: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES 1 :
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any corporation or
association not incorporated under the laws of the State of Illinois, to engage
in effecting fire insurance in the Village or to transact any business of fire
insurance in the Village without paying the fees herein provided.
   B.   Fees: Any corporation or association as defined in subsection A above
shall pay to the Village Treasurer for the maintenance, use and benefit of the
Fire Department, a sum of money equal to two percent (2%) of the gross receipts
each year received for premiums by any and all agents of any such corporation
or association for fire insurance policies on any property in this Village.
Such payments shall be made for the year ending July 1 each year.
   C.   Report Required: Every person acting as representative for or on behalf
of any company or association required to be licensed hereunder shall, on or
before July 15 of each year, render to the Village Treasurer a full, true and
just account verified by his oath of all premiums which shall have been
received by him on behalf of the company during the year ending on July 1
preceding the report on such fire insurance policies.
   D.   Time Of Payment: All payments under the provisions of this Section
shall be made on or before July 15 following the termination of the year for
which such payments are due. (1951 Code 8-1, 8-2, 8-3, 8-4)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/11-10-1 et seq.
3-2-9: MUNICIPAL REPLACEMENT VEHICLE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon each "vehicle", as defined in
5/1-146 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 , purchased in this Village by or on
behalf of an insurance company to replace a vehicle of an insured person in
settlement of a total loss claim. The tax shall be in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00) per vehicle purchased.
   B.   Certificate Required: Every such insurance company that purchases a
replacement vehicle as defined herein shall complete and file with the Illinois
Department of Revenue a replacement vehicle certificate (Form RVT-7).
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 84-
13-32)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
3-2-10: MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX AND MUNICIPAL GROCERY
SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Imposition of Tax:
      1.   Municipal Grocery Retailers' Occupation Tax . A tax is hereby
imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at retail
in the Village of Oak Lawn at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this section
is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to
the provisions of Section 8-11-24(a) of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/
8-11-24).
      2.   Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax. A tax is hereby imposed
upon all persons engaged in the Village of Oak Lawn in the business of making
sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales of service,
transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of this tax
shall be the same rate identified in Section 1, above. The imposition of this
tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24(b)
of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   B.   Illinois Department of Revenue to Administer Both Taxes. The taxes
hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the
State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
   C.   Clerk to file Ordinance with Illinois Department of Revenue. As
required under Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-
24), the Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this Ordinance
with the Illinois Department of Revenue upon its adoption.
   D.   Effective Date. The taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall take effect
on January 1, 2026. (Ord. 25-07-10)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Liquor Control Commissioner
3-3-3: License Required
3-3-4: Application For License
3-3-5: Restrictions On License
3-3-6: Classification Of Liquor Licenses, Closing Hours
3-3-7: License Fees
3-3-8: Number Of Licenses
3-3-9: Payment And Disposition Of Fees
3-3-10: Term And Renewal Of License
3-3-11: Transfer Of License
3-3-12: Records Of Licenses
3-3-13: Building And Location Restrictions
3-3-14: Conditions Of License
3-3-15: Sanitary Conditions
3-3-16: Minors
3-3-17: Limitations On The Sale And Promotion Of Alcoholic Liquor On The
Licensed Premises
3-3-18: Penalties
3-3-19: Prohibited Entertainment
3-3-20: Live Entertainment On Licensed Premises
3-3-21: Reports In Relations To, And Annual Review Of, Liquor Licenses
3-3-22: Video Gaming Cafes
3-3-23: Delivery Service Instructions
3-3-24: Beverage Alcoholic Sellers And Servers Education Training (BASSET)
Required
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, words and phrases are used in this
chapter in the sense given them in this section:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the original thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or solid,
patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable of
being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this chapter
shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent
(0.5%) or less, of alcohol by volume.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops, in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
CLUB: The building, room or quarters where a voluntary incorporated or
unincorporated association of persons organized for common purposes other than
the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, periodically meets and where
entry to the building, room or quarters, is restricted to members and guests of
members and where facilities are available for cooking, preparing and serving
of meals and where a list of such members' names and addresses is filed with
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner at the time of application for a liquor
license and where such list is updated within ten (10) days after each new
member is admitted to membership and where the affairs of the association are
handled by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by
the membership at an annual meeting and where any salary or compensation paid
to any officer, member, agent or employee of the association is fixed and voted
on by the members and/or board of directors to be paid from general revenues of
the club and is not dependent solely upon profits from the sale or distribution
of alcoholic liquor.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A business that sells a limited variety of food products,
general merchandise, and other convenience items; but which may also sell, as
an incidental use, gasoline, oil or other automotive products. To be considered
a convenience store more than fifty percent (50%) of the gross sales of the
business must be derived from the sale of products other than gasoline, oil and
other automotive products.
DRUGSTORE: A business that sells over the counter medicines, medical supplies,
and other health related products and merchandise, and often employs a
pharmacist to fill medical prescriptions; but which may also sell, as an
incidental use, other general merchandise and convenience items. To be
considered a drugstore, more than fifty percent (50%) of the gross sales of the
business must be derived from the sale of prescriptions, over the counter
medicines, medical supplies, and other health related products and merchandise.
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed
and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and
guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty five (25)
or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one (1) or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such
guests, such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the
same building or buildings in connection therewith and such building or
buildings, structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary
kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead or
other receptacle or container whatsoever, used corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE: A business in which the premises are used primarily or
exclusively for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in original package for
consumption off the premises where sold.
PATRON: Any customer, attendee or visitor of a licensed establishment who is
not an employee of the establishment.
PREMISES/LICENSED PREMISES: As used in this chapter, shall only refer to the
building located at the address indicated on the liquor license, and shall not
include any area at said address located outside of the building, such as, but
not limited to, the parking area, except that an outdoor service area provided
in conjunction with a Class N liquor license shall be considered part of the
licensed premises.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, without sleeping accommodations,
such space being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind
of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee.
SELL AT RETAIL AND SALE AT RETAIL: Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
TO SELL: Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or spirits, as defined herein.
(Ords. 12-18-59, 15-14-56, 19-16-63)
3-3-2: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The village president serves as the local liquor control commissioner and
currently receives as compensation for proper performance of such duties an
annual salary of six thousand dollars ($6,000.00). Beginning June 1, 2025, for
terms commencing after the April 2025 consolidated election, the president
shall serve as the local liquor control commissioner without any additional
compensation for such duties. (1951 Code 10-4-9A; Ords. 65-40-3, 73-16-14, 74-
38-91, 75-18-83, 19-16-63, 21-22-101, 24-18-67)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village, any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer's license, or in
violation of the terms of such license. (1951 Code
10-4-2)
3-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: Applications for licenses required by this chapter shall be
made to the village president in writing, signed by the applicant, if an
individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a club or corporation,
under oath stating:
      1.   The applicant's name and mailing address;
      2.   The name and address of the applicant's business;
      3.   If applicable, the date of the filing of the "assumed name" of the
business with the county clerk of Cook County.
      4.   In case of a copartnership, the date of the formation of the
partnership; in the case of an Illinois corporation, the date of its
incorporation; or, in the case of a foreign corporation, the state where it was
incorporated and the date of its becoming qualified under the Illinois business
corporation act to transact business in the state of Illinois;
      5.   The number, the date of issuance and the date of expiration of the
applicant's current local retail liquor license;
      6.   The name and address of the landlord if the premises are leased;
      7.   The date of the applicant's first request for a state and local
liquor license and whether it was granted, denied or withdrawn;
      8.   The address of the applicant when the first application for a state
and local liquor license was made;
      9.   The applicant's current state and local liquor license number;
      10.   The date the applicant began liquor sales at his place of business;
      11.   The applicant's retailer's occupation tax (ROT) registration number
1 ;
      12.   The applicant's document locator number on his federal special tax
stamp;
      13.   Whether the applicant is delinquent in the payment of the
retailer's occupation tax (sales tax), and if so, the reasons therefor;
      14.   Whether the applicant is delinquent under the cash beer law, and if
so, the reasons therefor;
      15.   In the case of a retailer, whether he is delinquent under the
thirty (30) day credit law, and if so, the reasons therefor;
      16.   Whether the applicant has made an application for a liquor license
which has been denied, and if so, the reasons therefor;
      17.   Whether the applicant has ever had any previous liquor license
suspended or revoked, and if so, the reasons therefor;
      18.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a gambling offense
or felony, and if so, the particulars thereof;
      19.   Whether the applicant possesses a current federal wagering or
gaming device stamp, and if so, the reasons thereof;
      20.   Whether the applicant, or any other person, directly or indirectly
in his place of business is a public official, and if so, the particulars
thereof;
      21.   Whether, in the case of an application for the renewal of a
license, the applicant has made any political contributions within the past two
(2) years, and if so, the particulars thereof;
      22.   The applicant's name, sex, date of birth, social security number,
position and percentage of ownership of the business; and the name, sex, date
of birth, social security number, position and percentage of ownership in the
business of every sole owner, partner, corporate officer, director, manager,
and any person who owns five percent (5%) or more of the shares of the
applicant business entity or parent corporations of the applicant business
entity; and
      23.   That he has not received or borrowed money or anything else of
value, and that he will not receive or borrow money or anything else of value
other than merchandising credit, in the ordinary course of business for a
period not to exceed ninety (90) days as herein expressly permitted under State
law) directly or indirectly from any manufacturer, importing distributor or
distributor representative of any such manufacturer, importing distributor or
distributor and that he is not a party in any way, directly or indirectly, to
any violation by a manufacturer, distributor or importing distributor of State
law.
   B.   Additional Information: In addition to the foregoing information, such
application shall contain such other and further information as the local
Liquor Commissioner may, by rule or regulation not inconsistent with law,
prescribe.
   C.   Felony Conviction of Applicant: If the applicant reports a felony
conviction as required under subsection A18 of this Section, such conviction
may be considered by the Commissioner in determining qualifications for
licensing, but shall not operate as a bar to licensing.
   D.   Signatures Required: If said application is made in behalf of a
partnership, firm, association, club or corporation, then the same shall be
signed by at least two (2) members of such partnership, or the president and
secretary of such corporation.
   E.   Number of Times Allowed for Applying: No person, partnership,
association or corporation shall be allowed to file an application for the
issuance of a new liquor license of a specific class if said person,
partnership, association or corporation has, within the preceding twelve (12)
month period, filed an application for the issuance of the same class license.
   F.   Fingerprinting: The applicant for a license hereunder, and all persons
he proposes to use or uses as bartenders, shall be fingerprinted, and a
complete set of fingerprints maintained on file with the Police Department.
   G.   Filing Fee: Before any action is taken upon any application as provided
in this Chapter, the applicant shall pay to the Village the sum of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00), no part of which shall be refundable, to cover the
Village's costs in reviewing and investigating such applicant. Provided,
however, that in the event the application is approved by the Board of Trustees
and the applicant applies for the license and pays the initial license fee
within the time provided, said two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be
credited toward said license fee.
   H.   As part of the application process, the applicant shall be required to
execute a sufficient number of "Personal Inquiry Waiver" forms so as to allow
the Liquor Commissioner to obtain information about the applicant, and
information about businesses located outside the Village in which the applicant
has an interest, from other jurisdictions and law enforcement agencies. (1969
Code 3-3.1; Ords. 78-7-12, 78-17-40, 80-32-72, 87-5-17, 90-01-04, 19-16-63)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-2-1 of this title.
3-3-5: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE:
No license required by this Chapter shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the Village;
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides;
   C.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or State
law, unless the Village Board of Trustees determines that such person will not
be impaired by the conviction in engaging in the licensed practice after
considering matters set forth in such person's application in accordance with
Section 6-2.5 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934 and the Village's
investigation;
   D.   A person who has been convicted of keeping a place of prostitution or
keeping a place of commercial sexual exploitation of a child, promoting
prostitution that involves keeping a place of prostitution, or promoting
commercial sexual exploitation of a child that involves keeping a place of
commercial sexual exploitation of a child;
   E.   A person who has been convicted of pandering;
   F.   A person whose license issued under this Chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   G.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   H.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than fie percent (5%) of the aggregate limited
partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive a
license hereunder for any reason;
   I.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer,
manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
residence within the political subdivision;
   J.   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is incorporated or
organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or foreign limited
liability company which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act of 1983
or the Limited Liability Company Act to transact business in Illinois. The
Village shall permit and accept from an applicant for a license under this Act
proof prepared from the Secretary of State's website that the corporation or
limited liability company is in good standing and is qualified under the
Business Corporation Act of 1983 or the Limited Liability Company Act to
transact business in Illinois;
   K.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee;
   L.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or State
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this Section, or has forfeited his bond to appear
in court to answer charges for any such violation, unless the Village Board of
Trustees determines, in accordance with Section 6-2.5 of this Act, that the
person will not be impaired by the conviction in engaging in the licensed
practice;
   M.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued;
   N.   Any law enforcing public official, including members of the Liquor and
Tobacco Licensing Review Board, the President of the Village, any member of a
Village Board of Trustees; and, no such official shall be interested in any
way, either directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or distribution of
alcoholic liquor;
   O.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   P.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of Section 28-1 of, or as proscribed
by Section 28-1.1 or 28-3 of, the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961 or the
Illinois Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5, or as proscribed by a statute
replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
   Q.   A person to whom a federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax period,
unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a license under the
Raffles and Poker Runs Act or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act;
   R.   A copartnership to which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period, or if any of the partners have been issued a federal gaming device
stamp or federal wagering stamp by the federal government for the current tax
period, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a license under
the Raffles and Poker Runs Act or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act;
   S.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than twenty percent (20%) of the stock
of such corporation, has been issued a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp for the current tax period, unless the entity is eligible to be
issued a license under the Raffles and Poker Runs Act or the Illinois Pull Tabs
and Jar Games Act; and
   T.   Any premises for which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a license under
the Raffles and Poker Runs Act or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act;
   U.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or consumption
on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor liability
insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least equal to the
maximum liability amounts proscribed by Section 6-21(a) of the Illinois Liquor
Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/6-21(a);
   V.   A person who is licensed by any licensing authority as a manufacturer
of beer, or any partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or trust
or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other form of business
enterprise licenses as a manufacturer of beer, having any legal, equitable or
beneficial interest, directly or indirectly, in a person licensed in the State
of Illinois as a distributor or importing distributor. For purposes of this
paragraph (V), a person who is licensed by any licensing authority as a
"manufacturer of beer" shall also mean a brewer and a non-resident dealer who
is also a manufacturer of beer, including a partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or
any other form of business enterprise licensed as a manufacturer of beer; and
   W.   A person who is licensed in the State of Illinois as a distributor or
importing distributor, or any partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other
form of business enterprise licensed in the State of Illinois as a distributor
or importing distributor having any legal, equitable, or beneficial interest,
directly or indirectly, in a person licensed as a manufacturer of beer by any
licensing authority, or any partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other
form of business enterprise, except for a person who owns no more than five
percent (5%) of the outstanding shares of a manufacturer of beer whose shares
are publicly traded on an exchange within the meaning of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. For the purposes of this paragraph (W), a person who is
licensed by any licensing authority as a "manufacturer of beer" shall also mean
a brewer and a non-resident dealer who is also a manufacturer of beer,
including a partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or trust or
any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other form of business
enterprise licensed as a manufacturer of beer.
   A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license applied for or held by the corporation
if the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of any federal or
State, or local law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic
liquor, the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any financial
gain to the corporation and the corporation has terminated its relationship
with each director, officer, employee, or controlling shareholder whose actions
directly contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The Village shall
determine if all provisions of this subsection (b) have been met before any
action on the corporation's license is initiated.
(1951 Code 10-4-4; Ords. 78-7-12, 19-16-63, 25-12-38 )
3-3-6: CLASSIFICATION OF LIQUOR LICENSES, CLOSING HOURS:
   CLASS "LIQ-C" CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES (COP): The Class "LIC-C" COP License
applies to and encompasses establishments operating in the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor to be consumed on premises, such as taverns, bars, nightclubs,
pubs, lounges, full-service restaurants, hotels, banquet halls, theaters, for-
profit clubs and bowling alleys, and includes the following previous liquor
license classifications: A, BV, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, Q. No alcoholic
liquor shall be sold, given away, or offered for sale in, upon, or about the
specified licensed premises between the hours of (1) two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays and Saturdays, (2) two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Sundays for alcoholic liquors for
consumption on said premises.
   A "full-service restaurant" shall be defined as any public place kept, used,
maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place where meals are
actually and regularly served, with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining
room equipment and with adequate staff to take orders, prepare food, and serve
the food in a full-service operation rather than a fast food service operation.
The principal business of a "full-service restaurant" is the service of said
meals and said service of meals shall constitute at least sixty percent (60%)
of the gross income of the establishment, as distinguished from the principal
business being the service of alcoholic beverages with service of food as a
supplement to the service of alcoholic beverages.
   CLASS "LIQ-P" PACKAGED GOODS LICENSE: Establishments and Retail Stores. The
Class LIQ-P Packaged Goods Licenses described below apply to and encompass
establishments operating in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor enclosed in the
original manufacturer sealed and labeled container/package, such as liquor
stores, grocery stores, drugstores, and convenience stores, and include the
following previous liquor license classifications: A, B, D, Q, and S. The Class
LIQ-P Packaged Goods Licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor enclosed in the original manufacturer sealed and labeled container/
package, not for consumption on the premises where sold.
   Effective as of July 1, 2025, as a condition to obtaining and maintaining a
Class "LIQ-P1" or Class "LIQ-P2" Packaged Goods License, licensees are required
to install, maintain, and operate a high-resolution video surveillance security
system within the licensed store premises, which shall record the activities
within all parts of the licensed store premises and shall function twenty-four
(24) hours a day and be linked to the Village's Axon Fusus security monitoring
system. Licensees shall have until December 31, 2025, to install such video
surveillance security system and link it with the Village's system. Licensees
shall post signage notifying patrons and employees that the store premises are
under video surveillance.
   1.   CLASS "LIQ-P1" PACKAGED GOODS LICENSE: Establishments and Retail
Stores, other than Convenience Stores, e.g., Liquor Stores, Grocery Stores, and
Drugstores. The Class "LIQ-P1" Packaged Goods License shall authorize the
retail sale of all alcoholic liquor in its original manufacturer sealed and
labeled container/package only, not for consumption on the premises where sold.
No alcoholic liquor shall be sold, given away or offered for sale in, upon or
about the specified premises so licensed between the hours of two o'clock (2:
00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays and Saturdays and two
o'clock (2:00) A.M and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Sundays.
   2.   CLASS "LIQ-P2" PACKAGED GOODS LICENSE: Convenience Stores Only. The
Class "LIQ-P2" Packaged Goods License shall authorize the storage,
distribution, and retail sale of alcoholic liquor, and single servings of beer,
in their original manufacturer sealed and labeled containers/packages only, not
for consumption on the premises where sold, as an adjunct to a convenience
store. However, the holder of a Class "LIQ-P2" Packaged Goods License shall be
prohibited from selling any hard alcohol or spirits in quantities of less than
one-fifth (1/5) of a gallon, as well as single servings of beer larger than
thirty-two (32) ounces. Single servings of beer shall be kept in a locked
display case at all times during which the sale of beer is permitted, and with
only the cashier or other authorized store employee able to unlock said display
case. The area set aside for liquor sales shall not exceed twenty percent (20%)
of the floor area of the convenience store. For purposes of determining the
allowable beer and wine sales area, the licensee shall submit a floor plan of
the convenience store at the time of application for the license. Areas of the
convenience store, to which access by customers is prohibited, shall not be
counted in the floor area calculation. All beer and wine on display for sale
shall be kept in a locked display case at all times during which the sale of
beer and/or wine is prohibited, with only the cashier or other authorized store
employee able to unlock said display case. All extra beer and wine stock shall
be kept in a storage room, with access limited only to store employees. No more
than two (2) signs, banners, posters, or any combination thereof, advertising
beer and/or wine, shall be visible from the exterior of the convenience store.
Beer and/or wine may only be sold, given away, or offered for sale in, upon, or
about the specified premises so licensed between the hours of seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on weekdays and Saturdays and between
the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on
Sundays.
   CLASS "LIQ-M" MANUFACTURER'S LICENSE: The Class "LIQ-M" Manufacturer's
License authorizes the manufacture, production, storage, and sale of alcoholic
liquor on the licensed premises, and the sale of retail alcoholic liquor, as
well as the sale of alcoholic liquor-related products, and includes the
following previous liquor license classifications: R, T, V. Class "LIQ-M"
licensees may sell alcoholic liquor they manufacture to wholesalers, licensed
retailers, and directly to consumers for off premises consumption in packaged
form only. Class "LIQ-M" licensees may also purchase bulk wine for blending
purposes from licensed out-of-state wine sellers. All alcoholic liquor must be
manufactured and labeled in accordance with Federal regulations from the U.S.
Department of the Treasury Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau ("TTB") (formerly, the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms) and/or any other applicable federal
agency. Licensees must obtain and maintain all required Federal, State and
local licenses and permits, as applicable. Nothing in the issuance of a Class
"LIQ-M" license shall be considered to relieve the licensee of any
responsibility for complying with all applicable Federal, State and local laws
and regulations relating to the manufacture, production, storage, and/or sale
of alcoholic liquor products. No alcoholic liquor shall be sold, given away, or
offered for sale in, upon or about the specified premises so licensed between
the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays
and Saturdays, and between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eleven
o'clock (11:00) A.M. on Sundays.
   CLASS "LIQ-NP" NON-PROFIT LICENSE: The Class "LIQ-NP" Non-Profit License
shall authorize the retail sale on the specified premises of alcoholic liquor
for consumption on said premises only, and such license shall be authorized
only for issuance to not for profit clubs and organizations including, but not
limited to, the Knights Of Columbus and Veterans Of Foreign Wars and includes
the following previous liquor license classification: K. No alcoholic liquor
shall be sold, given away or offered for sale in, upon or about the specified
premises so licensed between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock
(11:00) A.M. on Sundays.
   CLASS "LIQ-SE" SPECIAL EVENTS ONLY LICENSE: The Class "LIQ-SE" Special
Events License shall authorize the sale or giving away of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold or given away at any specific event
sponsored by any club, organization or individual and includes the following
previous liquor license classification: C. No alcoholic liquor shall be sold,
given away or offered for sale in, upon or about the specified premises so
licensed between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. on weekdays and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. on
Sundays. All Class "LIQ-SE" licenses shall expire ten (10) days after the date
of issue.
   CLASS "LIQ-S-VG" VIDEO GAMING SUPPLEMENTAL LIQUOR LICENSE: A Class "LIQ-S-
VG" Video Gaming Supplemental Liquor License shall authorize eligible liquor
license holders to conduct video gaming, as defined under the Illinois Video
Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., on their licensed premises, so long as the
licensee also has a video gaming license issued by the Illinois Gaming Board
pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Video Gaming Act and all the rules,
regulations, and restrictions imposed by the Illinois Gaming Board; provided,
video gaming shall not be permitted during the hours alcoholic liquor sales are
prohibited. A licensed establishment that already holds a liquor license which
authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the licensed
premises (hereinafter the "primary liquor license"), shall be eligible for the
Class "LIQ-S-VG" Video Gaming Supplemental Liquor License to conduct video
gaming on the licensed premises, in accordance with the rules and regulations
of the Illinois Gaming Board license and the primary liquor license. The Class
"LIQ-S-VG" Video Gaming Supplemental Liquor License is required in addition to
the establishment's primary liquor license, and includes the following previous
liquor license classifications: BV, EV, FV, GV, HV, IV, JV, KV, LV, MV, QV, RV,
VV. Video gaming, as defined under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., shall not be allowed in an establishment
without the Class "LIQ-S-VG" Video Gaming Supplemental Liquor License.
   All new liquor licenses issued and all liquor licenses renewed after the
effective date of this section shall be in compliance with the above classes
and shall accurately reflect the nature of the licensee's actual business.
   Any person holding a valid liquor license as of June 30, 2025, shall not be
required to submit a new application for a liquor license; instead, any person
holding such a valid license may apply for a renewal of its primary Liquor
License in the manner provided by this chapter and will receive its renewal
license under the new corresponding classification, so long as all other
requirements of this Code pertaining to the renewal of liquor licenses are met
and the applicable renewal fee is timely paid.
   Any person holding a valid liquor license in the following classifications
as of June 30, 2025, shall not be required to submit a new application for a
Class "LIQ-S-VG" Video Gaming Supplemental Liquor License, if such person has
either received or applied for a video gaming license issued by the State of
Illinois: Class AV, BV, EV, FV, GV, HV, IV, JV, KV, LV, or MV; instead, any
person holding such a valid license and has either received or applied for a
video gaming license from the State of Illinois may apply for a renewal of its
primary Liquor License and an add-on CLASS "LIQ-S-VG" Video Gaming Supplemental
Liquor License in the manner provided by this chapter and will receive its
renewal license under the new corresponding classification along with the CLASS
"LIQ-S-VG" Video Gaming Supplemental Liquor License, so long as all other
requirements of this Code pertaining to the renewal of liquor licenses are met
and the applicable renewal fee is timely paid.
(Ords. 14-09-18, 14-23-50, 14-28-67, 15-14-56, 15-19-76, 15-19-77, 16-10-29,
18-07-22, 18-23-78, 19-11-31, 19-13-42, 23-21-87, 24-15-59, 25-12-38)
3-3-7: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   The schedule of liquor license fees, effective for the licensing period
beginning July 1, 2025, are set forth in Section
3-1-1-7 of this Code.
   B.   In the event that the liquor license applicant for a particular
location is the spouse and/or child/children of the individual who previously
held the liquor license relative to said location, and the reason that the
previous liquor license holder relinquished the license was because of an
illness or disability (said illness or disability being verified in writing by
a licensed physician), the portion of the fee paid by the previous liquor
license holder that was applicable to the unused term of the relinquished
liquor license shall serve as a credit against the fee paid by said spouse and/
or child/children. Said credit shall be calculated based on the following
formula:
 
License fee paid by previous liquor   Number of days left in the previous
license holder                      x license period when the license was
                                      relinquished
                                    Total number of days in the previous
                                      license period
 
   C.   In the event that a liquor license holder relinquishes his/her/their/
its liquor license in contemplation of the sale of the business, and a new
liquor license is issued to the prospective purchaser contingent upon
consummation of the sale, if said sale fails to be consummated within four (4)
months following the issuance of the liquor license to the prospective
purchaser, the liquor license issued to the prospective purchaser shall be
deemed to be forfeited, and the number of authorized liquor licenses for said
license classification shall automatically be reduced by one in accordance with
section
3-3-8 of this chapter. In addition, if the foregoing should occur, and if the
initial liquor license holder should apply for the reissuance of his/her/their/
its liquor license, should said liquor license be reissued to the initial
liquor license holder, the initial fee charged for said liquor license shall,
provided there has been no change in the ownership interest in the initial
liquor license, be calculated based on the transfer fee formula set forth in
subsection 3-3-11I4 of this chapter, rather than the initial license fee amount
set forth in the schedule referenced in subsection A of this section.
   D.   The application filing fee requirements set forth in subsection 3-3-4G
of this chapter shall be applicable to any applicant whose license fee is
calculated pursuant to subsection B of this section.
(Ords. 94-9-41, 95-22-92, 96-2-5, 96-10-48, 98-12-59, 00-17-45, 01-07-26, 03-
20-82, 14-09-18, 14-23-50, 15-14-56, 16-01-07, 18-14-55, 19-15-54, 25-12-38)
3-3-8: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The number of liquor licenses authorized to be issued for each license class
shall be as amended from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees
and on record in the Office of the Village Clerk.
The number of licenses authorized for each license class shall remain at the
number set from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees; provided,
however, that any license in said classes which is revoked or not issued shall
automatically reduce the number of authorized licenses of the particular class
by the total number of revoked or nonissued licenses in the particular class.
In addition, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall notify, in writing,
the Village Clerk and Board of Trustees of any revocation or nonissuance of any
authorized license within ten (10) days of such occurrence.
In the event a licensee ceases to do business at the licensed premises, other
than temporarily for purposes of remodeling, as a result of a transfer of
location pursuant to subsection 3-3-13C of this chapter or temporarily for
purposes other than remodeling but with the prior written approval of the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, the number of authorized licenses in the
particular class shall automatically be reduced by one at the time the licensee
ceases to do business.
The applicant for a liquor license under the provisions of this chapter must
apply for the appropriate class license and pay the initial license fee for
such license within fourteen (14) days of the adoption of the ordinance
creating the appropriate license and authorizing its issuance to the applicant.
In the event any applicant fails to apply for a license and pay the initial
license fee within said fourteen (14) day period, such license shall be revoked
and the number of authorized licenses of the particular class involved is
automatically reduced by one. (1951 Code 10-4-6, 10-4-8; Ords. 202, 66-11-37,
71-12-25, 71-19-44, 71-29-65, 71-35-73, 72-4-11, 72-25-48, 72-29-53, 73-39-75,
74-12-18, 74-15-31, 74-17-35, 74-35-81, 75-3-6, 75-10-57, 75-15-68, 75-32-121,
76-13-23, 77-29-50, 77-32-61, 78-7-12, 78-24-58, 79-8-18, 80-32-72; 1985 Code;
Ords. 91-01-06, 94-9-41, 95-22-92, 98-12-59, 00-17-45, 01-07-26, 14-09-18, 19-
16-63)
3-3-9: PAYMENT AND DISPOSITION OF FEES:
   A.   Payment Of License Fees: All license fees required by this chapter
shall be paid to the Village in accordance with the following requirements.
Said fees shall be deposited in the General Corporate Fund or in such other
fund as shall have been designated by the President and Board of Trustees.
   B.   Initial License Fee For Issuance Of A New License: The initial license
fee, as set forth in section
3-3-7 of this chapter and in Section
3-1-1-7 of this Code, shall be paid in full within fourteen (14) days of the
adoption of the ordinance creating the new license, all in accordance with
section
3-3-8 of this chapter. Said initial license shall be valid until the following
June 30, unless suspended or revoked in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   Subsequent Renewal Licenses: Annual Fee: Renewal licenses are effective
July 1 of each year through June 30 of the following year, unless suspended or
revoked prior to that date in accordance with this chapter. The annual fee
relative to a renewal license shall be paid.
(Ords. 94-8-31, 19-16-63, 25-12-38)
3-3-10: TERM AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   Each license required by this chapter shall terminate on June 30 next
following its issuance, unless suspended or revoked prior to that date in
accordance with this chapter.
   Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof, provided he is
then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such renewal
license is sought is suitable for such purpose; and provided, further, that the
renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a vested right
which shall in any case prevent the President and Board of Trustees from
decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction.
(1951 Code 10-4-5, 10-4-10; Ords. 202, 78-7-12, 94-8-31, 25-12-38)
3-3-11: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed
one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment, or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
Except as provided in subsection B of this section, such license shall not
descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon
the death of the licensee; provided, that executors or administrators of the
estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt
licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor under order of
the appropriate court, may exercise the privileges of the deceased's or
insolvent's or bankrupt's license after the death of such descendent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license but not longer
than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
   B.   A license may, upon the licensee's death, descend only to the
licensee's spouse or children and in the event such licensee is   not survived
by a spouse or child then to the licensee's mother or father; provided,
however, any such survivor must possess the same qualifications required by the
deceased licensee. The passage of a license pursuant to the terms of this
subsection shall not require the payment of any fees.
Nothing contained in this subsection shall create any vested or property right
in any liquor license in any person whatsoever, nor shall it limit or restrict
the right of the Village to at any time amend or repeal this subsection.
   C.   When the licensee is a partnership or a corporation whose stock is not
publicly traded on a recognized stock exchange, the license shall terminate
whenever fifty percent (50%) or more of the ownership interest therein changes
from that shown on the original license application. In such event, the
partnership or corporation, through its officers/partners, must make
application for the issuance of a new license as provided herein; provided,
however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not apply where the
transfer of an ownership interest is made to an owner shown on the original
license application who owned fifty percent (50%) or more of the ownership
interest of such partnership or corporation at the time the original license
application was filed with the Village.
   D.   When the licensee is a corporation whose stock is publicly traded on a
recognized stock exchange, the license shall terminate whenever fifty percent
(50%) or more of the membership of the board of directors of said corporation
changes from that shown on the original license application, or whenever one
person who was not shown as an owner of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
ownership interest in said publicly traded corporation at the time of the
original liquor license application, becomes an owner of a fifty percent (50%)
or more ownership interest in said publicly traded corporation. In such event,
the corporation, through its officers/board of directors, must make application
for the issuance of a new license as provided in this Chapter.
   E.   When the licensee is a partnership or corporation, no change in
ownership from that shown on the original application involving the addition of
a new partner(s) of such partnership or a new shareholder(s) who will own in
the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation,
shall be effective until such proposed change in ownership has first been
reported in writing to the Local Liquor Commissioner and said Commissioner
finds that the proposed new partner(s) or shareholder(s) is/are not ineligible
under the provisions of Section 3-3-5 of this Chapter and so advises the
licensee in writing. Any change in ownership without complying with the terms
hereof shall constitute grounds for a fine and/or the suspension or revocation
of the liquor license issued to such partnership or corporation.
   F.   When the licensee is a corporation whose stock is publicly traded on a
recognized stock exchange, no change in the membership of the board of
directors of said corporation from that shown on the original application
involving the addition of a new director of such corporation, shall be
effective until such proposed change in directors has first been reported in
writing to the Local Liquor Commissioner and said Commissioner finds that the
proposed new director is not ineligible under the provisions of Section
3-3-5 of this Chapter and so advises the licensee in writing. Any change in the
membership of the board of directors without complying with the terms hereof
shall constitute grounds for a fine and/or suspension or revocation of the
liquor license issued to such corporation.
   G.   When the licensee is a partnership or corporation whose stock is not
publicly traded on a recognized stock exchange, no change in ownership from
that shown on the original application involving the withdrawal of any partner
or shareholder shall be made without reporting such change in ownership in
writing to the Local Liquor Commissioner within ten (10) days of any such
change in ownership. Any such change in ownership made without complying with
the terms hereof shall constitute grounds for a fine and/or the suspension or
revocation of the liquor license issued to such partnership or corporation.
   H.   When the licensee is a corporation whose stock is publicly traded on a
recognized stock exchange, no change in the membership of the board of
directors from that shown on the original application involving the withdrawal,
removal or elimination of any director shall be made without reporting such
change in the membership of the board of directors in writing to the Local
Liquor Commissioner within ten (10) days of any such change. Any such change in
the membership of the board of directors made without complying with the terms
hereof shall constitute grounds for a fine and/or the suspension or revocation
of the liquor license issued to such corporation.
   I.   In the event that a liquor license is granted to a corporation which
issues franchises relative to its business locations, the liquor license issued
to the corporation may be transferred to an authorized franchisee,
notwithstanding any other provision of the Code, provided the following
conditions are met:
      1.   The appropriate filing fee, as set forth in subsection
3-3-4G of this Chapter, is paid, and submitted with an original liquor license
application, by the franchisee;
      2.   The franchisee qualifies for a liquor license in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter;
      3.   The corporation and franchisee submit written documentation to the
Village evidencing the issuance of a franchise to the franchisee at the
licensed location; and
      4.   Said transfer request occurs within one hundred eighty (180) days of
the approval of the issuance of the liquor license to the corporation. Upon
petition of the corporation, the Board of Trustees may grant an extension of
the one hundred eighty (180) days' limitation upon a showing of good cause as
to why the transfer could not occur within the initial one hundred eighty (180)
day period.
Provided all the foregoing conditions are met, said liquor license may be
transferred to the franchisee upon payment of transfer fee which shall be
calculated based on the following formula:
 
Renewal fee for the particular class of   Number of days left
license as per section                  x in the license year  = Transfer fee
3-3-7 of this chapter                     365
 
If at any time after the transfer of the liquor license to the franchisee there
is a change in the franchisee, it shall be the obligation of the corporation
and the original franchisee to report said change, within ten (10) days after
it occurs, to the local liquor control commissioner, and the new franchisee
shall be required to apply for a new liquor license.
(1951 Code 10-4-10; Ords. 78-7-12, 81-11-18, 82-14-51, 90-13-64, 93-14-55, 19-
16-63)
3-3-12: RECORDS OF LICENSES:
   The president, or their designee, shall keep or cause to be kept a complete
record of all licenses issued, under this chapter, and shall furnish the clerk,
treasurer and chief of police each with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of
any new license, or the revocation of any old license, the president, or their
designee, shall give written notice of such action to each of these officers
within forty eight (48) hours of such action.
(1951 Code 10-4-9; Ords. 68-22-58, 25-12-38)
3-3-13: BUILDING AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Location Restricted: No license shall be issued for the sale at retail
of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred and seventy-five feet (175'), as
measured from building to building, of any church, school, hospital, home for
aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their surviving spouses or children
or any military or naval station; provided, that this prohibition shall not
apply to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to
restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not
the principal business carried on, if such place of business so exempted shall
have been established for such purposes prior to the taking effect of this
chapter; nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor on premises within one hundred and seventy-five feet (175') of any
church or school where such church or school has been established within such
one hundred and seventy-five feet (175') since the issuance of the original
license.
   B.   View From Street: In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption upon the premises is licensed (other than as a restaurant,
hotel or club) no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be
permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises nor inside
such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such
licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no booth,
screen, partition or other obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or
lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which
shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the
street, road or sidewalk, and said premises must be so located that there shall
be a full view of the entire interior of such premises from street, road or
sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises
shall be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or
artificial white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall
be clearly visible. In case the view into any such licensed premises required
by the foregoing provisions, shall be wilfully obscured or in any manner
obstructed, then such license shall be subject to revocation in the manner
herein provided. In order to enforce the provisions of this subsection, the
president shall have the right to require the filing with him of plans,
drawings and photographs showing the clearance of the view as above required.
   C.   Change Of Location: A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the
sale of alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application and
license; provided, however, that a licensee, where no change in ownership is
involved, may apply for a change of location and, if approved by the board of
trustees, no additional fees will be required.
   D.   Outside Licensed Premises: It shall be a violation of this chapter for
any licensee, or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of any licensee to allow or permit any individual to exit the licensed
premises, or remain outside of the licensed premises on property under the
control of the licensee, with alcoholic liquor in his or her possession, other
than alcoholic liquor in its original package and unopened for consumption at
another location. (1951 Code 10-4-11, 10-4-16, 10-4-22; Ords. 337, 78-7-12, 78-
10-19, 98-11-53, 25-08-15)
3-3-14: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Closing Hours: Except as otherwise provided in section 3-3-6 of this
chapter, it shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail, or give away
any alcoholic liquor in the village between the hours of two o’clock (2:00)
A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays and Saturdays and between the
hours of two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M. on Sundays.
   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or to admit the public to any
premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during the hours
within which the sale of such liquor is prohibited, and further all patrons
must vacate the premises where alcoholic liquor is sold at retail within twenty
(20) minutes after the hour when the sale of such alcoholic liquor is
prohibited; provided, that in the case of restaurants, clubs, bowling alleys,
convenience stores and hotels, such establishments may be kept open during such
hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold to or consumed by the public during
such hours.
   B.   Amusement Arcades: All persons holding both a liquor license and an
amusement arcade license issued by the village shall abide by the provisions of
subsection 3-4A-2-8A7 of this title as now or hereafter amended.
   C.   Peddling: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village.
   D.   Drunkenness, Gambling: No retail liquor dealer shall by himself,
servant or clerk, allow drunkenness or permit any person to drink to excess, or
suffer or permit any species of gambling, in his premises, or in any part
thereof or in any place adjacent thereto under his control. Provided, however,
the prohibitions provided for in this chapter or in any other chapter or
section of this code that may reference or govern gambling or gaming shall not
apply to the sale of tickets offered under the Illinois lottery law 1  or to
any device for which a license or permit has been issued by the Illinois gaming
board pursuant to the Illinois video gaming act as codified in 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., so long as such device is conducted in
compliance with all requirements of said act and all rules and regulations of
the Illinois gaming board.
   E.   Disorderly Conduct: No retailer of liquor licensed under the provisions
hereof shall suffer any loud or boisterous talking, or obscene or profane
language, quarreling, singing, fighting or other disturbances of persons
passing along any street or public square in the vicinity thereof or to the
disturbance of the peace and quiet of persons doing business or residing in the
neighborhood thereof.
(Ord. 12-14-45, 25-12-38)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 1605/1 et seq.
3-3-15: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
the storage of such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with the provisions of this
code and the ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the
storage or sale of food for human consumption.
   B.   Employees: It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a
carrier of, any contagious, infectious or venereal disease, and it shall be
unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease
to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling,
preparation or distribution of such liquor. (1951 Code 10-4-13, 10-4-14)
3-3-16: MINORS:
   A.   Employment: No retail alcoholic liquor licensee shall employ any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years as a bartender, nor shall any retail
alcoholic liquor licensee employ or permit any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years to at any time draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor. Further,
no retail alcoholic liquor licensee shall employ, with or without compensation,
or in way directly or indirectly utilize the services of any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years in the sale, distribution or delivery of alcoholic
liquors, and no one under the age of eighteen (18) years may handle or serve
alcoholic liquor in any premises licensed for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor. No individual under the age of twenty-one (21) years is permitted to
deliver alcoholic liquor in connection with delivery services described in
Section
3-3-23 of this chapter.
   B.   Sale To: No liquor licensee nor any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver
alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this subsection, before
selling, offering for sale, giving, or delivering alcoholic liquor to another
person, the person selling, offering for sale, giving, or delivering the
alcoholic liquor shall verify that the person is at least twenty one (21) years
of age by examining from any person that appears to be under thirty (30) years
of age a government-issued photographic identification that establishes the
person to be twenty one (21) years of age or older; any such licensee, or his
agent or employee, shall refuse to sell or serve alcoholic beverages to any
such person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of identity and
of the fact that they are at least twenty one (21) years of age.
   Proof that the defendant-licensee, or his employee or agent, demanded, was
shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any transaction
forbidden by this subsection is competent evidence and may be considered in any
prosecution therefor or to any proceedings for the suspension or revocation of
any license based thereon.
   C.   Misrepresentation Of Age: Any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years who presents or offers to any licensee, his agent or employee, any
written, printed or photostatic evidence of age and identity which is false,
fraudulent or not actually his own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing,
attempting to purchase or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure, the
serving of any alcoholic beverage, or who has in his possession any false or
fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence of age and identity, is
guilty of a violation of this section.
   D.   Underage Purchase, Possession, Or Consumption:
      1.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall purchase, possess
or consume any alcoholic liquor within the village. It shall be unlawful for
any parent or legal guardian of any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to allow such person to purchase, possess, receive or consume any
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section upon either public or private
property within the village. However, the possession and dispensing of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the
consumption by a person under twenty one (21) years of age under the direct
supervision and approval of the parent or parents of such minor in the privacy
of the home, is not prohibited by this section.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of property located
in the village to allow any person under twenty one (21) years of age to
possess or consume alcoholic liquor on said property in violation of this
section.
      3.   This section does not apply to the possession of alcoholic liquor by
a person under twenty one (21) years of age who is making a delivery of an
alcoholic beverage in pursuance of the order of his parent or in pursuance of
his or her employment.
   E.   Purchasing Liquor For Minors: No person, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor
to another person under the age of twenty one (21) years, except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   F.   Penalty: Every person convicted of a violation of subsections B through
E of this section shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). In addition to, or in lieu of
said fine, said person may be required to perform public service work as may be
directed by any court.
(1951 Code 10-4-17; Ords. 77-20-33, 78-7-12, 91-10-44, 04-03-14, 08-26-91, 25-
12-38)
3-3-17: LIMITATIONS ON THE SALE AND PROMOTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR ON THE
LICENSED PREMISES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any employee or agent of any
licensee, on licensed premises, where alcoholic liquor is sold or offered for
sale for consumption thereon, to engage in any of the following practices:
      1.   Sell more than one drink of alcoholic liquor for the price of one
drink of alcoholic liquor;
      2.   Sell, offer for sale, or deliver to any person an unlimited number
of drinks during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at private
functions not open to the public; or as part of a "party package" in accordance
with the regulations set forth in section 6-28.5 of the Illinois liquor control
act 1 , as may be amended from time to time.
      3.   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink without
a proportionate increase in the price charged for such drink, as compared to
prices during the same calendar week.
      4.   Encourage or permit on the licensed premises any game or contest
which involves drinking or the awarding of drinks as prizes.
      5.   Sell, offer for sale, or deliver to any person or group of persons a
bottle of distilled spirits.
   B.   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit a licensee from
engaging in offering "happy hour" sales of alcoholic liquor in compliance with
regulations set forth in the Illinois liquor control act 2 , as may be amended
from time to time.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to advertise any drink price specials/happy hours
on the outside of the licensed premises, or on the inside of the licensed
premises in such a manner as to be visible from the outside of the licensed
premises, within the village. (Ord. 16-17-71)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-28.5.
2 2. 235 ILCS 5/6-28.5.
3-3-18: PENALTIES:
   A.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: The local liquor commissioner
shall have the power to suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
any liquor license issued under the provisions of this chapter for cause, or if
he/she determines that the licensee shall have violated any of the provisions
of this code, any of the statutes of the state or any other valid ordinance or
resolution enacted by the president and board of trustees of the village.
However, no such license shall be revoked or suspended except after the holding
of a public hearing by the local liquor commissioner pursuant to the provisions
of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-5 (dramshops). Alternatively, licensees
shall have the opportunity to engage in a prehearing conference and agree to
negotiated penalties rather than proceed to a hearing.
   B.   Fine Imposed: In addition, the local liquor commissioner, if he/she
finds it to be in the public good, may, after a public hearing, fine the
licensee in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
violation of this chapter. Each day on which a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation.
   C.   Penalty Options: Based upon the evidence at such hearing, the local
liquor commissioner may enter an order:
      1.   Revoking the licensee's license; or
      2.   Suspending the licensee's license; or
      3.   Suspending the licensee's license and fining the licensee as
provided above; or
      4.   Fining the licensee as provided in subsection B of this section.
   D.   Mitigation/Aggravation Guidelines: Mitigation and aggravation
considered by the liquor commissioner includes, but is not limited to: severity
of the violation, prior actions taken by the commissioner for violations, size
of the business, percent of alcohol sales, and actions implemented by the
licensee to prevent future illegal activity. The liquor commissioner will
consider each violation and the mitigating and aggravating factors on their own
merits. In addition to any mitigating and aggravating factors, the liquor
commissioner may apply the penalty guidelines set forth in the following table:
 
Duration Of
License And Year 1       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4        Year 5 And
Number Of                                                         Beyond
Violations
            $0.00 -      $0.00 -      $0.00 -       $0.00 -       $0.00 -
First       $1,000.00    $1,000.00    $1,000.00     $1,000.00     $1,000.00
violation   fine and/or  fine and/or  fine and/or 1 fine and/or 1 fine and/or 1
            1 day        1 day        day           day           day
            suspension 1 suspension1  suspension1   suspension1   suspension1
            $1,000.00 -  $500.00 -    $500.00 -     $500.00 -
Second      $2,500.00    $2,500.00    $1,500.00     $1,000.00     $500.00 fine
violation   fine and 1 - fine and 1 - fine and 1 -  fine and 1    or 1 day
            7 day        3 day        3 day         day           suspension1
            suspension1  suspension1  suspension1   suspension1
            $2,500.00 -  $2,500.00 -  $1,500.00 -   $1,500.00 -   $1,000.00 -
Third       $5,000.00    $5,000.00    $5,000.00     $2,500.00     $2,000.00
violation   fine and 7 - fine and 7 - fine and 3 -  fine and 3 -  fine and 1 -
            30 day       21 day       14 day        7 day         3 day
            suspension1  suspension1  suspension1   suspension1   suspension1
                                      $5,000.00 -   $2,500.00 -   $1,500.00 -
Fourth                                $7,500.00     $7,500.00     $5,000.00
violation   Revocation   Revocation   fine and 7 -  fine and 7 -  fine and 5 -
                                      21 day        14 day        7 day
                                      suspension1   suspension1   suspension1
Fifth       Revocation   Revocation   Revocation    Revocation    Revocation
violation
 
Note:
   1.    The guidelines set forth above are parameters that may be adopted or
modified at the liquor commissioner's discretion.
 
   E.   Appeals: All appeals from orders of the local liquor control
commissioner shall be limited to a review of the official record of proceedings
of such local liquor control commissioner only as provided for in 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/7-9 (dramshops). Within five (5) days after the notice of
an appeal has been filed with the state liquor control commission, a certified
official record of the proceedings for the local liquor control commissioner
shall be filed with the state of Illinois liquor control commission; provided,
that the appellant licensee pays for the cost of the transcript as provided by
235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-9 (dramshops). (Ords. 16-07-18, 19-16-63)
3-3-19: PROHIBITED ENTERTAINMENT:
It shall be unlawful to permit the following conduct on licensed premises:
   A.   Performance of acts, or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or other sexual
acts.
   B.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the breasts,
buttocks, pubic hair, anus or genitals.
   C.   The actual or simulated display of the breasts, buttocks, pubic hair,
anus, vulva or genitals.
   D.   Permitting any person to remain upon licensed premises who exposes to
public view any portion of his or her breasts, buttocks, pubic hair, genitals,
vulva or anus. (Ord. 90-9-39)
3-3-20: LIVE ENTERTAINMENT ON LICENSED PREMISES:
   Live entertainment shall only be allowed on the licensed premises where
permitted or licensed pursuant to the provisions of the Village Code.
(Ords. 96-7-27, 25-12-38)
3-3-21: REPORTS IN RELATIONS TO, AND ANNUAL REVIEW OF, LIQUOR LICENSEES:
   A.   Quarterly Reports: The local liquor control commissioner, or their
designee, shall file a quarterly report with the board of trustees relative to
liquor licensees within the village. Said reports shall be filed with the board
of trustees in January, April, July and October of each year, on or before the
tenth day of each month. Said reports shall, at a minimum, provide the
following information relative to all liquor licensees for the previous three
(3) month period:
      1.   Any change in the ownership interest in any liquor licensee.
      2.   Any police reports filed relative to a liquor establishment, and the
general circumstances of the incident resulting in each report.
      3.   Any citizen complaints filed against any liquor establishment and
the general nature of each complaint.
      4.   Any disciplinary action taken against a liquor licensee and any
reasons therefor.
      5.   Any other information that the local liquor control commissioner
determines should be brought to the board of trustee’s attention relative to a
liquor licensee.
   B.   Annual Review: The legislative, license, and ethics committee shall
conduct an annual review of all liquor establishments and liquor licensees at
said committee’s January meeting each year. The local liquor control
commissioner shall be present at said meeting. At said meeting, the committee
shall review, with the local liquor control commissioner, the quarterly reports
submitted during the preceding year by the local liquor control commissioner.
In addition, the committee and the local liquor control commissioner shall
review the village’s ordinances relative to liquor control to determine if any
changes are necessary, as well as discuss any problems relative to any
particular liquor establishment(s) or licensee(s). If, as a result of said
annual review, the local liquor control commissioner is requested to report on
any particular matter, said report shall be filed by the local liquor control
commissioner with the committee, at or before said committee’s March meeting.
(Ords. 90-11-50, 13-09-29, 19-16-63, 25-12-38)
3-3-22: VIDEO GAMING CAFES:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this section a "video gaming cafe" shall be
defined as an establishment whose primary or major focus is to operate video
gaming terminals as defined under the Illinois Video Gaming Act 1  and the
service of alcohol and food is incidental to the operation of video gaming. The
following factors may be considered by the Local Liquor Commissioner when
determining if the establishment is a video gaming cafe:
      1.   The layout and design of the establishment;
      2.   The preparation and variety of food and beverages offered;
      3.   The absence of a full service kitchen;
      4.   The number of video gaming machines relative to the customer seating
capacity of the establishment;
      5.   The square footage of space devoted to video gaming relative to the
amount of space devoted to other activities;
      6.   The source of proposed or actual revenue derived from the
establishment;
      7.   The number of employees at the establishment and their proposed
function;
      8.   Any other factors determined as relevant by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
   B.   Video Gaming Cafes Prohibited: A video gaming cafe shall not be
qualified to obtain any existing classification of Village of Oak Lawn liquor
licenses. No such license allowing video gaming cafes shall be created,
maintained or authorized by this chapter. (Ords. 16-18-73, 19-16-63)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/5.
3-3-23: DELIVERY SERVICE INSTRUCTIONS:
Alcoholic liquor delivered to any address located within the Village of Oak
Lawn which does not hold a valid liquor license is subject to the following
restrictions:
   A.   Alcoholic liquor must be delivered by an individual of at least twenty
one (21) years of age or older.
   B.   Deliveries must not be between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on weekdays and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and
eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. on Sundays.
   C.   Payments may not be accepted nor orders placed at the delivery
location.
   D.   The express company, common carrier or contract carrier or agent of a
liquor license holder that carries or transports alcoholic liquor into or
within the Village shall not deliver or leave such deliveries without requiring
a signature of an individual twenty one (21) years of age or older.
   E.   Adequate evidence for proof of age should be produced to the delivery
agent in all instances of delivery.
   F.   A record shall be kept by the express company, common carrier or
contract carrier or agent of a liquor license holder who delivers alcoholic
liquor into or within the Village indicating the purchaser's name, address,
driver's license/state identification number, time, date and place of delivery
and the individual deliverer's identity.
   G.   Any violation of this section shall result in a fine of not less than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per occurrence.
(Ord. 17-14-51)
3-3-24: BEVERAGE ALCOHOLIC SELLERS AND SERVERS EDUCATION TRAINING (BASSET)
REQUIRED:
   A.   BASSET Requirements: Every owner, manager, assistant manager,
bartender, agent and employee who dispenses, sells, delivers or serves
alcoholic liquor, as well as any employee or agent of a liquor license
establishment that provides security services, including, but not limited to,
bouncers, door staff, or floor personnel, shall provide evidence of successful
completion of a state-certified Beverage Alcoholic Sellers and Servers
Education Training (BASSET) program. Persons holding a temporary permit are
exempt from this requirement.
   B.   All persons required to successfully complete the Beverage Alcoholic
Sellers and Servers Education Training program as provided for in this Chapter
shall be BASSET certified or enrolled in a BASSET program within thirty (30)
days of employment and shall become certified no later than sixty (60) days
subsequent to such employment.
   C.   Evidence of BASSET certification or enrollment shall be kept in each
licensed premises and shall be presented upon the request of any law
enforcement officer.
   D.   All BASSET training shall be in conformance with 235 ILCS 5/6-27 and 6-
27.1, as amended, and all regulations promulgated thereunder, including 77 Ill.
Admin. Code 3500.
(Ord. 25-12-38)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Applicability Of Provisions
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: Amusement Tax Imposed
3-4-3.1: Push Tax
3-4-3.2: Tax Additional
3-4-3.3: Registration
3-4-3.4: Collection, Payment, And Accounting
3-4-3.5: Rules And Regulations; Authorized
3-4-3.6: Application Of Village Code
3-4-3.7: Violations; Penalties
3-4-3.8: Seizure For Unlawful Use
3-4-4: Inspections
3-4-5: Street Shows
3-4-6: Premises Requirements, Exit Signs
3-4-7: Conditions Of License
3-4-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise provided, shall apply to
all amusements as hereinafter defined, whether specifically licensed or
regulated under other provisions of this code or other ordinances, or not.
(1951 Code 9-1-1; Ords. 77-15-19, 19-25-87)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The word "amusement" means:
      1.   Any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance, motion
picture show, flower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo,
athletic contest, sport, game or similar exhibition for public entertainment,
including, without being limited to, boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing,
swimming, racing, or riding on animals or vehicles, baseball, basketball,
softball, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field games, bowling,
billiard and pool games.
      2.   Any entertainment offered for public participation, including,
without being limited to, dancing, carnival, amusement park rides and games,
bowling, billiard and pool games, or video gaming terminal.
   B.   “Person”: Any natural individual that participates in an amusement,
including a firm, organization, society, foundation, institution, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability company,
public or private corporation, receiver, executor, trustee or other
representative appointed by order of any court, or any other entity recognized
by law.
   C.   “Play”: Each individual push of the video gaming terminal which
initiates the simulation provided by the video gaming terminal. Play shall not
include the push of individual wager amounts, selection of types of games on
the video gaming terminal or entry of any information or printing of winning
receipts.
   D.   “Terminal Operator”: Any individual, partnership, corporation, or
limited liability company that is licensed under the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS
40/1 et seq., and that owns, services, and maintains video gaming terminals for
placement in licensed establishments, licensed truck stop establishments,
licensed large truck stop establishments, licensed fraternal establishments, or
licensed veterans establishments.
   E.   “Video Gaming Terminal”: Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including but not
limited to video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the Illinois
Gaming Board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does
not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only. (1951 Code 9-1-1; Ords. 77-15-19, 19-25-87)
3-4-3: AMUSEMENT TAX IMPOSED:
3-4-3.1: PUSH TAX:
Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter, an amusement tax is imposed upon
any person who participates in the play of a video gaming terminal that takes
place within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Village of Oak Lawn. The rate
of the tax shall be equal to one cent ($0.01) per play on a video gaming
terminal.
The terminal operator of a video gaming terminal may separately itemize and
charge each person who plays a video gaming terminal. (Ord. 19-25-87)
3-4-3.2: TAX ADDITIONAL:
The tax imposed in this Chapter is in addition to all other taxes imposed by
the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or political subdivision
thereof. (Ord. 19-25-87)
3-4-3.3 REGISTRATION:
Every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal(s) located in the Village of
Oak Lawn shall apply for registration as a tax collector with the Village no
later than thirty (30) days after commencing such business or thirty (30) days
after the effective date of this ordinance imposing the push tax, whichever
occurs later. The application shall be submitted to the Village on the forms
provided by the Village and contain such information as reasonably required by
the Village to impose, collect, and audit all amounts related to the push tax.
(Ord. 19-25-87)
3-4-3.4: COLLECTION, PAYMENT, AND ACCOUNTING:
It shall be the joint and several duty of every terminal operator of a video
gaming terminal(s) to secure from each person participating in the play of a
video gaming terminal the push tax imposed by this Chapter. For purposes of
this Chapter, it shall be presumed that the amount of the push tax imposed on
each person, unless the taxpayer or tax collector provides otherwise with
books, records, or other documentary evidence, has been collected from the
person by the terminal operator. Push tax payments accompanied by tax returns
prescribed by the Village shall be remitted to the Village on or before the
20th day of the month following the month in which payment for the push tax is
made.
Every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal who is required to collect
the push tax by this Chapter shall be considered a tax collector for the
Village. All push tax amounts collected shall be held by the terminal operator
as trustee for and on behalf of the Village. The failure of the operator to
collect the tax shall not excuse or release the person from the obligation to
pay the tax. The ultimate incidence of the push tax shall remain on the person
and shall never be shifted to the terminal operator.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, in order to permit sound
fiscal planning and budgeting by the Village, no person shall be entitled to a
refund of, or credit for, the push tax imposed by this Chapter unless the
person files a claim for a refund or credit within one (1) year after the date
on which the push tax was paid or remitted to the Village.
The terminal operator of any video gaming terminal(s) shall be subject to
audit, inspection, and record keeping provisions of this Code. It shall be
unlawful for any terminal operator and/or person to prevent, hinder, or
interfere with the Village's officials, employees, and/or agents designated to
discharge their respective duties in the performance and enforcement of the
provisions of this Chapter. It is the duty of every terminal operator of a
video gaming terminal(s) to keep accurate and complete books and records to
which the Village's officials, employees, and/or agents will at all times have
full access. (Ord. 19-25-87)
3-4-3.5: RULES AND REGULATIONS; AUTHORIZED:
The Village is authorized to adopt, promulgate, and enforce any additional
rules and regulations pertaining to the interpretation, collection,
administration, and enforcement of this Chapter. (Ord. 19-25-87)
3-4-3.6: APPLICATION OF VILLAGE CODE:
Any citation under this Chapter may be in addition to any other citations
issued by the Village under any and all applicable sections of the Village
Code. (Ord. 19-25-87)
3-4-3.7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
It shall be a violation of this Chapter for a terminal operator to fail to file
a report within the time prescribed in this Chapter.
A terminal operator who falsely reports or fails to report the amount of push
tax due required by this Chapter shall be in violation of Chapter and is
subject to suspension and/or revocation of their terminal operator license. All
payments not remitted when due shall be paid together with a penalty assessment
on the unpaid balance at a rate of 1.5% per month.
Suspension Or Revocation Of License: The Village President/Local Liquor
Commissioner or his or her designee shall have the power to suspend for not
more than thirty (30) days or revoke any video gaming license issued under the
provisions of this chapter for cause, or if he/she determines that a terminal
operator shall have violated any of the provisions of this Chapter, any of the
statutes of the State or any other valid ordinance or resolution enacted by the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village. However, no such license shall
be revoked or suspended except after the holding of a public hearing by the
Village President/Local Liquor Commissioner or his or her designee. Ten (10)
days' notice of the hearing shall be given to the terminal operator.
Alternatively, terminal operator shall have the opportunity to engage in a
prehearing conference and agree to negotiated penalties rather than proceed to
a hearing.
Fine Imposed: In addition, any terminal operator violating the provisions of
this Chapter shall be subject to a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
the first offense, and seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the second
offense, and one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a third offense and subject a
revocation of any license to operate a video gaming terminal for the third
offense. It shall be deemed a violation of this Chapter for any owner to
knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the Village. Each day a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. It shall be deemed a
violation of this Chapter for any person to knowingly furnish false or
inaccurate information to the Village. (Ord. 19-25-87)
3-4-3.8: SEIZURE FOR UNLAWFUL USE: 
If the Village determines that the Village shall have a reasonable basis for
believing any owner is using a video gaming terminal in an illegal manner
contrary to the provisions of this Chapter or any other federal, state, or
municipal law and/or regulation, said video gaming terminal may be seized by
the Village, followed by an administrative hearing with notice to the owner
within seven (7) days of seizure to determine the appropriateness of the
seizure, and held until such time as the owner of such video gaming terminal
pays any delinquent push tax amount, reimburses the Village for actual cartage
costs incurred in the seizure and pays the Village twenty dollars ($20.00) for
each day the video gaming terminal has been in storage. (Ord. 19-25-87)
3-4-4: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police and the fire chief to see that
every exhibition, amusement, theatrical or other public show is inspected by a
member of the police and fire departments, and to ensure conformity with the
provisions concerning such amusements. (1951 Code 9-1-7; Ord. 19-25-87)
3-4-5: STREET SHOWS:
No license shall be granted for any carnival, circus, exhibition show or other
amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such a place that
the only main accommodation for the public or audience will be in a public
place, except on order of the village board. (1951 Code 9-1-3; Ord. 19-25-87)
3-4-6: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS, EXIT SIGNS:
It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant in charge of any building or hall
used as an assembly hall with accommodations for one hundred (100) persons or
more in which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures and other entertainments
are offered, operated or presented to provide and place a sign, on which the
word "Exit" shall appear in letters of at least six inches (6") high, over
every door or other opening from such hall to every means of egress therefrom,
and a light shall be provided with a red globe and placed at or over such sign,
which light shall be kept burning during the entire period the hall is open to
the public and until the audience has left the hall. (1951 Code 9-1-13; Ord.
19-25-87)
3-4-7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Order, Crowding:
      1.   The audience of any amusement, show or theatrical must be orderly
and quiet at all times, and it shall be unlawful for any person attending such
amusement, show or theatrical to create a disturbance in the audience.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to permit or gather such a crowd to witness any
amusement or show as to create a dangerous condition because of fire or other
risks.
   B.   Indecent Shows: It shall be unlawful to present, exhibit, conduct or
take part in any indecent show, theatrical, play, motion picture exhibition or
other form of public amusement or show.
   C.   Exhibition Of Criminals: It shall be unlawful to exhibit any criminal
or the body of any criminal or any person who shall have become notorious
because of the commission of a crime, in any theatrical, exhibit, carnival or
other public place.
   D.   Riots: It shall be unlawful to present any public amusement or show of
any kind which tends to or is calculated to cause or promote any riot or
disturbance.
   E.   Smoking 1 : It shall be unlawful to smoke or carry a lighted cigar,
cigarette or pipe on or beneath the stage or in a dressing room of any building
used as an assembly hall with seating accommodations for more than one hundred
(100) persons or in which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures or other
entertainments are offered, operated, presented or exhibited. (1951 Code 9-1-6,
9-1-8, 9-1-9, 9-1-10, 9-1-11, 9-1-12; Ord. 19-25-87)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Title 8, Chapter 12 of this code.
ARTICLE A. AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-4A-1: Mechanical Amusement Devices
3-4A-1-1: Permit Required
3-4A-1-2: Application For Permit, Issuance
3-4A-1-3: Deposit Required For Temporary Permit
3-4A-1-4: Liability Insurance
3-4A-1-5: Term Of Permit
3-4A-1-6: Construction Requirements And Safety Equipment
3-4A-1-7: Inspections
3-4A-1-8: Compliance With Provisions
3-4A-1-9: Penalties
3-4A-2: Automatic Amusement Devices
3-4A-2-1: Definition
3-4A-2-2: Licenses Required
3-4A-2-3: Applications For Licenses
3-4A-2-4: Restrictions On Licenses
3-4A-2-5: License Fees
3-4A-2-6: Investigation Of Applicant, Fee
3-4A-2-7: Payment Of Fees, Emblem Required
3-4A-2-8: Class A And B Licenses
3-4A-2-9: Gambling Devices
3-4A-2-10: Revocation Of License
3-4A-2-11: Penalties
3-4A-1: MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES:
3-4A-1-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, erect or install any
mechanical amusement device, roller coaster, scenic railway, water chute,
parachute, rolling device or any other mechanical riding, sailing, sliding or
swinging device in either an existing or a new amusement park, or places or
sites, where such devices are installed, erected or constructed under carnival,
fair or similar auspices, without first obtaining a permit therefor. (Ords. 71-
20-56, 74-15-30, 74-19-39)
3-4A-1-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT, ISSUANCE:
Application for a permit shall be submitted to the director of office of
quality control of the village at least thirty (30) days prior to such
construction, erection, or installation of any mechanical amusement device. The
applicant shall be required to have the Illinois department of labor, carnival
and amusement ride inspection division, inspect all mechanical amusement
devices to be used by the applicant, and shall submit proof, that the Illinois
department of labor, carnival and amusement ride inspection division, has been
requested to make said inspection, within ten (10) days after making
application with the department of quality control. Upon receiving an
application for a permit, the department of quality control shall inform the
applicant of the necessity of immediately contacting the Illinois department of
labor, carnival and amusement ride inspection division, in regard to obtaining
the required inspections of the mechanical amusement devices. In the event that
the applicant does not submit proof of notification of the Illinois department
of labor, carnival and amusement ride inspection division, of the need for an
inspection, within ten (10) days of making application with the department of
quality control, the department of quality control shall give the applicant a
second and final notice, in writing, of the need for an inspection, and of the
potential for requiring the closing down of the mechanical amusement devices in
the event the proper inspections are not obtained. All costs associated with
said inspection shall be the responsibility of the applicant. A copy of the
inspection report shall be filed with the department of quality control.
Permits issued by the department of quality control shall be valid only as to
those mechanical amusement devices which have been inspected by, and have
passed the inspection of, the Illinois department of labor, carnival and
amusement ride inspection division. (Ords. 87-14-55, 87-19-77)
3-4A-1-3: DEPOSIT REQUIRED FOR TEMPORARY PERMIT:
At the time of application for a temporary permit, the applicant shall pay to
the Village as a deposit, an amount equal to one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each day the aforesaid devices shall be operated. The deposit required shall be
in addition to any fees required under Section
3-1-1-7 of this Title. The following expenses incurred by the Village, as
ultimately determined by the Director of Office of Quality Control, shall be
deducted from the deposit and the balance returned to the applicant within
three (3) days following the removal of the devices:
   A.   Inspection fees, original and daily, as determined by the Director of
Office of Quality Control.
   B.   Special police services, including calls for disturbances created by
patrons as determined by the Chief of Police.
   C.   Cleanup and restoration of premises, as determined by the Public Works
Director. (Ords. 71-20-46, 74-15-30, 74-19-39, 81-12-19)
3-4A-1-4: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Every permit application for a mechanical amusement riding device shall be
accompanied by a certificate of liability insurance, which will name the
Village and its officers, agents and employees as additional insured, in an
amount not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for any one person and
two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) for any one accident. The insurance company
is to be approved by the Department of Administrative Services of the Village
and shall be with a company licensed to do business in the State. (Ord. 71-20-
46; 1985 Code)
3-4A-1-5: TERM OF PERMIT:
Every permit issued for a ride or mechanical riding device where same is for a
temporary nature, shall be for a period not to exceed fourteen (14) days.
Permits for permanent installations shall be for a term of one year. (Ord. 71-
20-46)
3-4A-1-6: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS AND SAFETY EQUIPMENT:
All mechanical amusement riding devices shall be constructed in the manner
hereinafter set forth, and shall be so constructed and designed to withstand
shocks and to afford adequate protection for persons riding thereon. Protective
devices as handrails, handles, safety grips or straps, of suitable design shall
be provided.
   A.   Merry-go-round horses shall be equipped with a bridle and stirrups and
a strap on the horse rod to snap or buckle under the arms of the rider.
   B.   Except for portable-type Ferris wheels, same shall be constructed with
steel frames and tripods supported upon and anchored on concrete piers.
Portable-type Ferris wheels shall be constructed of steel and set on suitable
bases under the towers and the side tripods.
   C.   On all other mechanical amusement riding devices, automatic handlebars
shall be installed where vertical thrust is encountered and catwalks shall be
provided for emergency and maintenance purposes.
   D.   All rides shall be guyed, suitable to withstand wind pressure and
unbalanced load. Footings, blockings and outriggers shall be secured so as to
be stable under all operating conditions.
   E.   No amusement riding device shall be overcrowded or loaded in excess of
its rated safe carrying capacity or safe operating speed.
   F.   All internal combustion engines used in driving riding devices shall be
equipped with an overspeed governor.
   G.   All riding devices shall be fenced, enclosed, barricaded or otherwise
guarded for public protection.
   H.   Every roller coaster-type mechanical riding device shall be equipped
with a terminal brake; there also shall be provided an emergency brake that
will immediately stop the device, and same shall be located for each access.
The emergency brake shall be under the control at all times of the attendant at
the loading platform. In addition thereto there shall be provided a safety
device for each roller coaster-type ride to catch or hold the ride should the
propelling chain break, or any other break or accident that might occur while
the ride is in motion. Anti- rollback devices shall be installed on all
inclined tracks, slides or guides.
   I.   No person shall knowingly use or permit to be used an amusement riding
device which is not properly assembled or which is defective or unsafe in any
of its parts, components, controls or safety equipment. In no case shall a
safety device installed on any amusement riding device be made inoperative.
(Ord. 71-20-46)
3-4A-1-7: INSPECTIONS:
After the erection of the rides and mechanical riding devices, a physical
inspection shall be made of same by the Illinois Department of Labor, Carnival
and Amusement Ride Inspection Division, to ensure conformity with the
provisions of this Section and all other ordinances and statutes relating
hereto. Said inspection shall be made prior to the opening of said rides and
mechanical riding devices to the public.
Where such rides and mechanical riding devices are of a permanent installation,
said inspection shall be made annually prior to the opening of such devices to
the public. (Ord. 87-14-55)
3-4A-1-8: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
No device shall be operated unless compliance is had with the provisions of
this Code and the rules and regulations set forth herein. (Ords. 74-20-46, 74-
15-30, 74-19-39)
3-4A-1-9: PENALTIES:
Any person violating, resisting or opposing the enforcement of this Section
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day such violation shall
continue shall be and constitute a separate offense. (Ords. 71-20-46, 99-5-11)
3-4A-2: AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICES:
3-4A-2-1: DEFINITION:
The term "automatic amusement device" shall mean any machine which upon the
insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disc, may be operated by the public
generally for use as a game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not
registering a score. It shall include, but not be limited to, such devices as
jukeboxes, marble machines, pinball machines, movie and video booths or stands,
games played with any number of balls, spheres or electrically operated devices
upon a table or board having holes, pockets, cups or electrically activated
devices that are actuated by said balls, or spheres or electrical contacts,
electrical impulse and/or cathode tube games, and all games, operations or
transactions similar thereto under whatever name by which they may be
indicated. Said term shall not include a pool or billiard table licensed
pursuant to article B of this chapter. (Ords. 66-24-72, 77-15-18)
3-4A-2-2: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Automatic Amusement Device: Any person displaying for public patronage
or keeping for operation, any "automatic amusement device" as herein defined
shall be required to obtain a license from the director of administrative
services upon payment of a license fee 1 .
   B.   Operator's Business: No one shall engage in the "automatic amusement
device operator's business" which is herein defined to mean the conduct or
transaction of the business of distributing, placing, leasing or selling
automatic amusements with an agreement to maintain, service or supply, without
first obtaining a license therefor. (Ord. 77-15-18; 1985 Code)
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 3-1-1-7 of this title and section
  3-4A-2-5 of this article.
3-4A-2-3: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the director of administrative
services upon a form to be supplied by the village for that purpose and shall
contain the following information:
   A.   Name and address of the applicant, age, date and place of birth;
   B.   Name of manufacturer of the device(s) to be licensed;
   C.   Prior convictions, if any, of applicant;
   D.   Place where machine or device is to be displayed or operated, and the
business conducted at that place;
   E.   Description of machine or device to be covered by the license,
mechanical features and serial number;
   F.   A statement under oath that:
      1.   The machine or device is not a gambling device;
      2.   No more than ten (10) free games can be obtained by any one player;
      3.   The machine or device is not equipped with a "knock off" switch or
other similar mechanism which would cancel free games.
All applications for automatic amusement device licenses must also contain the
applicable information provided for in section
3-3-4 of this title. (Ords. 77-15-18, 82-9-33; 1985 Code)
3-4A-2-4: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES:
   A.   All applicants for such licenses shall be ineligible for a license
hereunder for the same applicable reasons as those set forth in section
3-3-5 of this title.
   B.   No license shall be issued to any applicant unless he shall be over
twenty one (21) years of age and a citizen of the United States. (Ords. 77-15-
18, 82-9-33)
3-4A-2-5: LICENSE FEES:
Every applicant, before being granted a license, shall pay the annual license
fee set forth in Section
3-1-1-7 of this Code for each license year, which fee shall not be prorated.
Ords. 77-15-18, 81-36-79, 84-6-13, 1985 Code, Ord. 03-20-81, 23-12-42)
3-4A-2-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT, FEE:
   A.   Investigation Of Applicant: The original application for a license
shall be referred to the chief of police for investigation and verification of
the facts stated therein and he shall ascertain if the applicant is a person of
good moral character, and either approve or disapprove the application. No
license shall be issued to any applicant unless approved by the chief of
police.
   B.   Fee: Before any action is taken upon any application as provided in
section
3-4A-2-3 of this article, applicant shall pay to the village the sum of two
hundred dollars ($200.00), no part of which shall be refundable, to cover the
village's costs in reviewing and investigating such applicant. Provided,
however, that in the event the application is approved by the board of trustees
and the applicant applies for the license and pays the initial license fee
within the time provided, said two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be credited
toward the initial license fee.
   C.   Examination Of Records: In conformity with this section
3-4A-2, the department of administrative services, with reasonable prior
written notice, shall have the authority to examine all books and records of
automatic amusement device operators to ensure compliance with this section.
(Ords. 77-15-18, 81-36-79; 1985 Code)
3-4A-2-7: PAYMENT OF FEES, EMBLEM REQUIRED:
All fees shall be paid to the director of administrative services who shall
issue, as evidence of the payment thereof as to each device a self-voiding
adhesive emblem to be placed on each device. Such emblem shall bear the words
"Village of Oak Lawn" and the date it shall become void. It shall be unlawful
for any person to mutilate said emblem during the year for which it is issued.
Each such emblem shall be issued only for a particular machine and may not be
transferred or used in any way whatsoever as the required emblem of any other
machine whether or not such other machine is a new or replacement machine for
the original machine. Each and every machine must have such an emblem issued
for its particular use after the payment of the required fee. If an automatic
amusement machine is replaced with a similar machine, a new emblem will be
issued upon notification in writing to the director of administrative services.
(Ords. 81-36-79, 84-6-13; 1985 Code)
3-4A-2-8: CLASS A AND B LICENSES:
   A.   Class A License: A public place of amusement arcade as defined herein.
      1.   Number Of Licenses: The number of class A amusement arcade licenses
authorized to be issued shall be as amended from time to time by ordinance
adopted by the president and board of trustees and on record in the office of
the village clerk; provided, however, that any license in said class which is
revoked or not issued shall automatically reduce the number of authorized
licenses of the class by the total number of revoked or nonissued licenses in
said class. In addition, the business regulation officer shall notify, in
writing, the village clerk and the board of trustees of any revocation or
nonissuance of any authorized licenses within ten (10) days of such occurrence.
      2.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to install, use or
permit the installation or use of ten (10) or more automatic amusement device
machines at any place, unless the person in control of such place has the
premises licensed as a "public place of amusement arcade". The term "arcade"
means a place of amusement that includes ten (10) or more automatic amusement
devices.
      3.   Application For License: The applicant for a license under the
provisions of this section must apply for the appropriate license and pay the
initial license fee for such license within fourteen (14) days of the adoption
of the ordinance creating or board approval authorizing the appropriate license
and directing its issuance to the applicant. In the event any applicant fails
to apply for a license and pay the initial license fee within said fourteen
(14) day period, such license shall be revoked and the number of authorized
licenses of the class A involved is automatically reduced by one.
      4.   License Fee: Ten (10) or more automatic amusement devices may be
placed in a single location only if the location has been licensed as a public
place of amusement arcade and the appropriate fee, as set forth in section
3-1-1-7 of this title, has been paid. While coin operated kiddie rides are
assessed the amusement device fee, they are not counted in determining the need
for the arcade license. These fees shall not be prorated.
      5.   Location Of Premises:
         a.   No such amusement arcade licensed under this code shall be
situated or located within one-half (1/2) statute mile in any direction of any
public or private school.
         b.   No class A license shall be issued unless the premises to be
licensed is located in a C-3 regional shopping center zoning classification
under the village's zoning title 1  and not more than one class A license shall
be issued for each such regional shopping center. Provided, however, that where
a class A license has been issued for a premises not located in a C-3 regional
shopping center in accordance with this code prior to the effective date
hereof, such class A license shall continue to be valid and remain in full
force and effect. In the event any such present class A license for a premises
located outside of a C-3 regional shopping center is ever revoked, not
reissued, or the original licensee shall cease operating the business for any
reason whatsoever, the number of class A licenses shall automatically be
reduced accordingly and no new class A license may be issued for any such
location.
      6.   Closing Hours: It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or to
admit the public to any such amusement arcade between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
      7.   Location Of Devices, Restrictions: All amusement devices in arcades
shall be kept in a separate area segregated, separate and apart from the area
where food and drink are served. No service or consumption of alcoholic
beverages shall be permitted within the segregated area where such devices are
located.
   B.   Class B License: Each business location or place with nine (9) or less
amusement device machines on the premises.
      1.   Number Of Licenses: There shall be no limit on the number of class B
licenses issued.
      2.   Application For License: Applications for class B licenses shall be
made to the business regulation officer on forms to be supplied by said
officer. The business regulation officer shall forward all such applications to
the police chief for investigation. The police chief, within seven (7) working
days after receipt of any such application, shall forward his written
recommendation, together with a copy of the application, to the board of
trustees who shall approve or reject applications for class B licenses at its
next regular board meeting occurring at least seven (7) days after receipt of
the police chief's written recommendation. No class B licenses shall be issued
by the business regulation officer without prior approval of the board of
trustees.
      3.   Number Of Devices: Any premises may have up to, and including, nine
(9) automatic amusement devices; provided, that the annual amusement license
fee, as set forth in section
3-1-1-7 of this title, has been paid for each device and an emblem evidencing
payment of the license fee is affixed to the automatic amusement device at a
conspicuous location. (Ords. 77-15-18, 79-23-38, 80-5-15, 81-7-12, 81-9-17, 81-
14-23, 81-15-25, 81-21-39, 81-28-57, 81-31-59, 81-33-64, 81-35-69, 81-36-79,
81-36-80, 82-9-33, 82-11-43, 82-12-48, 82-16-54, 82-16-55, 82-19-66, 82-22-77,
82-24-92, 83-8-10, 83-16-40; 1985 Code; Ords. 96-3-10, 97-11-53, 01-06-21, 03-
20-81)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4 of this code.
3-4A-2-9: GAMBLING DEVICES:
Nothing in this section shall in any way be construed to authorize, license or
permit any gambling devices whatsoever, including, but not limited to,
mechanical grab devices and bingo devices, or any mechanism that has been
judicially determined to be a gambling device, or in any way contrary to law.
Provided, however, that bingo games licensed by the state of Illinois and in
compliance with this code shall not be considered gambling.
If the chief of police shall have reason to believe any automatic amusement
device is used as a gambling device, such machine may be seized by the police
and impounded until a hearing is held as herein provided. A finding of guilty
shall result in the destruction of such machines by the police department. A
finding of innocent shall result in the return of said machines to the
licensee. (Ord. 77-15-18)
3-4A-2-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Every license issued under this code is subject to the right, which is hereby
expressly reserved, to revocation of same should the licensee directly or
indirectly permit the operation of any automatic amusement device contrary to
the provisions of this section, the ordinances of the village or the laws of
the state of Illinois. Said license may be revoked by the village manager after
written notice to the licensee, which notice shall specify the ordinance or law
violations with which the licensee is charged, if after the hearing the
licensee is found to be guilty of such violations. Ten (10) days' notice of the
hearing shall be given to the licensee. At such hearing the licensee and his
attorney may present and submit evidence of witnesses in his defense. (Ord. 77-
15-18)
3-4A-2-11: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense; and each day such violation shall continue
shall be regarded as a separate offense. In addition, any violation hereof may
result in having the premises business regulation certificate subject to
revocation proceedings. (Ords. 77-15-18, 99-5-11)
ARTICLE B. BILLIARD/POOL HALLS
SECTION:
3-4B-1: Definition
3-4B-2: License Required
3-4B-3: License Fees
3-4B-4: Application For License
3-4B-5: Number Of Licenses
3-4B-6: Conditions Of License
3-4B-7: Posting Of License
3-4B-8: Penalty
3-4B-9: Suspension/Revocation Of License
3-4B-1: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this code, a "billiard/pool hall" shall be defined as any
location at which more than two (2) billiard and/or pool tables are operated or
kept for use by the public at one business location. (Ord. 93-22-93)
3-4B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a billiard/pool hall without
first obtaining the appropriate license(s) under this article. (Ord. 93-22-93)
3-4B-3: LICENSE FEES:
License fees in regard to billiard/pool halls shall be as set forth in section
3-1-1-7 of this title. (Ord. 03-20-81)
3-4B-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application for a billiard/pool hall license shall be made to the
village in writing and must be renewed annually providing the following
information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      2.   The location and telephone number of billiard/pool hall;
      3.   A telephone number and the name of a person who may be contacted on
a twenty four (24) hour basis in case of emergency;
      4.   A statement of whether the business will be conducted by a manager
and, if so, the name, address and telephone number of the manager;
      5.   The number of billiard/pool tables to be located on the licensed
premises;
      6.   An overall security plan addressing all facilities and customer/
patron safety, which shall be submitted to the chief of police for
informational purposes, as well as review and comment; and
      7.   An overall parking plan, addressing those locations at which it is
anticipated that patrons will be parking, which shall be submitted to the
director of quality control for informational purposes, as well as review and
comment.
   B.   The village shall review the information in the application and shall
determine whether the premises wherein the billiard/pool hall is located fully
complies with all of the village's regulations including, but not limited to,
life safety, fire prevention, property maintenance, building and zoning
ordinances. (Ord. 93-22-93)
3-4B-5: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The number of billiard/pool hall licenses authorized to be issued shall be as
amended from time to time by ordinance adopted by the president and board of
trustees and on record in the office of the village clerk. At any time a
billiard/pool hall ceases to do business in the village, the number of licenses
shall be reduced accordingly by operation of law until such time as a formal
amendment to this code is adopted. (Ords. 93-22-93, 96-3-10)
3-4B-6: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
Billiard/pool hall licenses shall be subject to the following conditions:
   A.   No billiard or pool table shall be used on any day except between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
   B.   No person under the age of sixteen (16) shall be allowed in a billiard/
pool hall, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
   C.   No licensee shall permit any gambling or riotous, disorderly or immoral
conduct in or about the licensed premises. (Ord. 93-22-93)
3-4B-7: POSTING OF LICENSE:
Every person licensed pursuant to this article shall post said license in a
conspicuous place in his/her/their/its business. (Ord. 93-22-93)
3-4B-8: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a billiard/pool hall, other than
in full compliance with this article and/or all other applicable village codes
or ordinances. Any person convicted of a violation of this article shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). (Ords. 93-22-93, 99-5-11)
3-4B-9: SUSPENSION/REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   In addition to any fine that may be assessed pursuant to section
3-4B-8 of this article, any license issued pursuant to this article may be
suspended, for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, or revoked, upon a
finding by the village manager, or his/her designee, after a hearing, for any
one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   A violation of any federal, state or local law applicable to the
business or licensed premises; or
      2.   The conviction of the licensee, or any officer or director thereof,
of a felony.
   B.   The procedure for a hearing on suspension/revocation of a license shall
be as follows:
      1.   Notice of said hearing, in writing, shall be given to the licensee
by the village manager, or his/her designee, at least ten (10) days prior to
the time set for the hearing;
      2.   The notice shall set forth the specific grounds of the complaint as
well as the time and place of the hearing;
      3.   The Village Manager, or his/her designee, shall preside at the
hearing and the licensee shall be permitted counsel and the right to submit
evidence and cross examine witnesses;
      4.   The Village Manager, or his/her designee, shall render a written
decision after all evidence has been presented;
      5.   Said written decision may be appealed by the licensee to the
President and Board of Trustees provided a notice of appeal is filed with the
Village Clerk within ten (10) days after the issuance of said written decision.
(Ord. 93-22-93)
ARTICLE C. ROLLER SKATING RINKS
SECTION:
3-4C-1: Application for License
3-4C-2: Restrictions on License
3-4C-3: Building and Premises Requirements
3-4C-4: Conditions of License
3-4C-5: Revocation of License
3-4C-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Each application for a license to establish, operate or maintain a roller
skating rink shall state thereon the name and address of the applicant, name
and address of the owners and beneficial owners and manager thereof, location
of the rink and the maximum number of persons to be accommodated. The
application shall be accompanied by a complete set of plans and specifications
as provided by the Building Code. Said application shall be examined and
approved by the Village Clerk, Director of Office of Quality Control,
Electrical Inspector, Plumbing Inspector, Chief of Police and Board of Trustees
before a license is issued 1 . (1951 Code 9-6-2; Ords. 53, 81-12-19)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1-7 of this Code for license fee.
3-4C-2: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE:
No license required by this Article shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides;
   B.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   C.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or State
law, if the Commissioner determines after investigation that such person has
not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust;
   D.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   E.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   F.   A person whose license issued under this Article has been revoked for
cause;
   G.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   H.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license;
   I.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
political subdivision;
   J.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is a
foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois Business Corporation
Act 1  to transact business in Illinois;
   K.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee;
   L.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or State
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this Section, or has forfeited his bond to appear
in court to answer charges for any such violation;
   M.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued;
   N.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   O.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling or drug related offense;
   P.   A person to whom a Federal gaming device stamp or a Federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the Federal government for the current tax period;
   Q.   A copartnership to which a Federal gaming device stamp or a Federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the Federal government for the current tax
period, or if any of the partners have been issued a Federal gaming device
stamp or Federal wagering stamp by the Federal government for the current tax
period;
   R.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than twenty percent (20%) of the stock
of such corporation, has been issued a Federal gaming device stamp or a Federal
wagering stamp for the current tax period; and
   S.   Any premises for which a Federal gaming device stamp or a Federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the Federal government for the current tax
period. (1951 Code
10-4-4; Ord. 78-7-12; 1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 805 ILCS 5/1.01.
3-4C-3: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Regulations 1 :
      1.   No building shall be constructed or remodeled for use as a roller
skating rink unless the same is of fireproof construction, conforms to the
Building Code and contains a minimum of fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet.
      2.   A sufficient supply of drinking water shall be furnished from
approved bubblers.
      3.   Minimum sanitation facilities shall be provided as follows: four
hundred (400) to six hundred (600) capacity, seven (7) toilets and one
additional toilet for each two hundred (200) or fraction thereof of additional
capacity.
      4.   The minimum ventilation shall consist of a mechanical exhaust system
with a capacity equal to three (3) cubic feet of air per minute for each square
foot of floor area and the ventilating openings shall not be less than four
percent (4%) of the floor area.
   B.   Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking shall be provided for roller
skating rinks as set forth in subsection 4-13-4E of this Code. (1951 Code 9-6-
3, 9-6-7; Ord. 53; 1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 6 of this Code for building regulations.
3-4C-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Closing Hours: It shall be unlawful to operate a roller skating rink
after the hour of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., except that the closing time on
Friday, Saturday and any day preceding a legal holiday shall be not later than
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight.
   B.   Alcoholic Beverages, Gambling Devices: It shall be unlawful to sell,
give, store or permit the use of alcoholic beverages on the premises of any
roller skating rink and to install or operate any gambling device.
   C.   Order, Safety: The owners and manager shall conduct such rink in an
orderly manner and make adequate provision for the safety and protection of
patrons, employees and spectators, including regulations of the number and
speed of skaters.
   D.   Nuisances: It shall be unlawful for the owners or managers to permit or
suffer to permit the commission of a nuisance or breach of morality or safety
or health as defined under the existing laws of the Village and the State of
Illinois.
   E.   Outdoor Skating: It shall be unlawful for the owner or manager of a
roller skating rink to permit any outdoor roller skating on the premises of the
rink. (1951 Code 9-6-5; Ord. 53)
3-4C-5: REVOCATION OF LICENSE 1 :
The Board of Trustees may revoke any roller skating rink license for default in
the payment or performance of any obligation to the Municipality under the
provisions of this Article. (1951 Code 9-6-10; Ord. 53)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1-6 of this Code for hearing procedure.
ARTICLE D. BOWLING ALLEYS
SECTION:
3-4D-1: Application For License
3-4D-2: Closing Hours
3-4D-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for bowling alley licenses shall state thereon the intended
location of the place of business and the number of alleys to be used 1 . (1951
Code
9-3-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-1-7 of this title for license fee.
3-4D-2: CLOSING HOURS:
Effective May 1, 2007, all business premises on which a bowling alley is
situated or operated shall be closed between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 06-22-133)
ARTICLE E. MOTION PICTURES AND THEATRICALS
SECTION:
3-4E-1: Application For License, Fee
3-4E-2: Building Requirements
3-4E-3: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-4E-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, FEE:
Applications for motion picture and theatrical licenses shall state, in
addition to the other information required, the place of the intended
performance and the seating capacity thereof. For motion pictures which are to
be presented in premises which are not covered by an annual license, the fee to
be paid shall be five dollars ($5.00) per day 1 ; provided, that no such motion
pictures shall be presented in or on any premises or building which does not
fully comply with the requirements for the construction or maintenance of
buildings for this purpose. (1951 Code 9-4-2, 9-4-4)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-1-7 of this title for license fee.
3-4E-2: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General: It shall be unlawful to present any public motion picture in
any building or structure which does not contain the number of exits required
by this code or the ordinances of the village or by statute for buildings or
places intended for motion picture performances, or in premises in which the
electric wiring does not fully comply with the ordinances. All places used for
the exhibition of theatricals must be kept adequately ventilated during the
performance and for so long a time as the audience may remain therein.
   B.   Obstructing Aisles, Exits: It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit
the obstruction of any aisles, corridors or exits leading from any room or
enclosures in which a motion picture performance is being given or in which an
audience for such a performance is gathered. (1951 Code 9-4-8, 9-4-9)
3-4E-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Types Of Pictures: It shall be unlawful to offer or present any motion
picture which has a tendency to cause a riot or public disturbance of the
peace, or any immoral, indecent or blasphemous picture or performance 1 .
   B.   Crowding: It shall be unlawful to permit any person, excepting ushers
or other theater employees, to remain standing in a hall or room in which a
motion picture is presented during the time of such performance; and it shall
be unlawful to admit to any such hall more persons than can be accommodated by
the seating arrangements for the premises.
   C.   Scenery: It shall be unlawful to use any scenery in any theater other
than noninflammable scenery or such as shall have been rendered noninflammable
by application of fire prevention coatings.
   D.   Smoking 2 : It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in a theater.
(1951 Code 9-4-5, 9-4-6, 9-4-7; 1969 Code 11-115)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-5-6-3 of this code.
2 2. See also title 8, chapter 12 of this code.
ARTICLE F. SHOOTING GALLERIES 1
SECTION:
3-4F-1: Placement Of Targets
3-4F-2: Conditions Of License
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-1-7 of this title.
3-4F-1: PLACEMENT OF TARGETS:
Targets shall be placed before a backstop of steel, sufficiently thick to
prevent any bullet from piercing it, and so arranged that there will be no
danger from ricocheting bullets or deflected pieces of bullets. (1951 Code
9-5-4)
3-4F-2: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Order: All persons present in any shooting gallery shall conduct
themselves in an orderly manner, and shall not make or cause any loud or
unnecessary noise.
   B.   Gambling: It shall be unlawful to gamble or bet in any such place.
   C.   Sanitation And Code Compliance: Premises used for shooting galleries
shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and in compliance with all
provisions of this code applicable thereto. (1951 Code
9-5-2,
9-5-3; 1985 Code)
ARTICLE G. TRAMPOLINE AMUSEMENT GROUNDS 1
SECTION:
3-4G-1: License Required
3-4G-2: Application For License, Fee
3-4G-3: Building And Premises Requirements
3-4G-4: Sound Amplifiers
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 17 of this code.
3-4G-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to establish, conduct or operate any trampoline amusement
ground, trampoline equipment or devices, which is open to the public, and for
admittance to which a fee is charged, without having first secured a license
therefor. (1951 Code 9-7-1; Ord. 377)
3-4G-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, FEE:
Applications for licenses required by this article shall be made to the clerk
of the village, and shall comply with all of the general provisions of this
code or the ordinances relating to such applications 1 . The annual license fee
shall be as set forth in section
3-1-1-7 of this title. (1951 Code 9-7-1; Ord. 377; 1985 Code; Ord. 03-20-81)
 
Notes
1 2. See chapter 1 of this title.
3-4G-3: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to erect, establish, conduct or operate any trampoline
amusement ground, trampoline equipment or devices, and no license shall be
issued therefor, unless the following provisions are complied with:
   A.   Access To State Highways, Permit: Whenever a trampoline amusement
ground has automobile entrance and exits onto a state highway, access permit
for such shall first be obtained from the state highway department, and copy of
same shall be presented to the village clerk at the time of application for a
license.
   B.   Building Regulations And Requirements: Application for a license shall
be accompanied by a complete set of plans and specifications as provided by the
building code of the village. Said plans shall further provide outdoor
accessible drinking fountain, a minimum of two (2) separate sanitary toilet
facilities for male and female patrons, enclosure of trampoline area with
minimum height fencing of five feet (5'), and adequate lighting with proper
shading so as to not cast excessive illumination on adjacent premises. (1951
Code 9-7-3; Ord. 377)
3-4G-4: SOUND AMPLIFIERS:
In connection with the operation of a trampoline amusement ground, it shall be
unlawful to maintain or operate any loudspeaker or amplifier connected with any
radio, phonograph, microphone, or other device by which sounds are magnified
and made over the public street or public place so as to be disturbing to the
public and adjacent premises. (1951 Code 9-7-4; Ord. 377)
ARTICLE H. CARNIVALS
SECTION:
3-4H-1: License Required
3-4H-2: Application For License
3-4H-3: Scheduling, Community Events Calendar; Fees
3-4H-4: Penalty
3-4H-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a carnival or amusement rides 1  in the village
without a license. (Ord. 70-9-13)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  3-4A-1 of this chapter.
3-4H-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for license shall be made to the village forty five (45) days prior
to the proposed use of same. The applicant shall furnish the following
information for the issuance of said license:
   A.   Name and address of operator. If a corporation, state of incorporation
and names and addresses of all officers of same.
   B.   Certificates of insurance providing for liability insurance, with the
village as an additional party insured.
   C.   Site location in the village and duration of same.
   D.   Name and address of sponsoring organization, if any, and of officers of
same where applicable.
   E.   An overall parking plan, addressing those locations at which it is
anticipated that patrons will be parking, which shall be submitted to the
director of quality control and police chief for informational purposes, as
well as review and comment. In the event that said parking plan indicates the
use of private parking lots other than parking lots owned by the applicant,
said parking plan shall be accompanied by letters from the owner(s) of said
private parking lot(s) indicating the consent of said owner(s) relative to the
use of said private parking lot(s).
   F.   A site plan for the carnival which indicates the proposed locations of
all rides, game booths, refreshment booths, trucks and trailers used for
transporting the aforementioned rides and booths and mobile living quarters for
employees of the company used to provide said rides and booths. (Ords. 70-9-13,
93-24-112, 01-17-64)
3-4H-3: SCHEDULING, COMMUNITY EVENTS CALENDAR 1 ; FEES:
   A.   The fees required to be paid to the village by a carnival operator
shall be waived by the village if the sponsor is a resident nonprofit
organization. However, the deposit required under section
3-4A-1-3 of this chapter shall be paid. No more than two (2) carnivals may be
sponsored by one nonprofit organization in any calendar year.
   B.   No carnival shall be scheduled on the community events calendar, as
established in section
3-1-7-4 of this title, to commence less than ten (10) days after the scheduled
completion of the most recent one; provided, however, that the village board
may allow a carnival to commence less than ten (10) days after the scheduled
completion of, or at the same time as, another carnival; provided that a
finding is made as to each of the following conditions:
      1.   That the location of the second carnival will not be so close to the
first carnival that traffic congestion will result; and
      2.   That the scheduling of the second carnival, less than ten (10) days
after the scheduled completion of, or at the same time as, the first carnival
will not unduly burden the village's police department in carrying out its
duties throughout the village and, specifically, in maintaining order at both
carnivals; and
      3.   That strict adherence to the ten (10) day requirement would cause
particular hardship to the second carnival license applicant.
   C.   When a carnival is sponsored by a nonprofit organization, the operator
shall guarantee the sponsoring organization a minimum payment of one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). (Ords. 76-10-21, 87-21-89)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 3-1-7-4 of this title.
3-4H-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense, and each day during or on which a violation occurs
or continues shall constitute a separate offense hereunder. (Ord. 70-9-13; 1985
Code; Ord. 99-5-11)
ARTICLE I. TEEN NIGHTS
(Rep. by Ord. 23-12-42)
ARTICLE J. RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-4J-1: Authority
3-4J-2: Definitions
3-4J-3: Conditions of License
3-4J-4: License Fees, Issuance
3-4J-5: License Issue Restrictions
3-4J-6: Conduct of Raffles; Premises
3-4J-7: Raffles Manager, Bond
3-4J-8: Records
3-4J-9: Additional Restrictions
3-4J-10: Reciprocity
3-4J-11: Queen Of Hearts Raffles
3-4J-1: AUTHORITY:
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
10-5-5  of this Code relating to gambling, raffles may be conducted in the
Village upon complying with the following regulations. (Ord. 87-11-44)
3-4J-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Article, the following definitions apply:
BUSINESS: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses who
have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and civic
interests of the community.
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax- supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-for-
profit basis with no personal profit incurred to anyone as a result of the
operation.
QUEEN OF HEARTS RAFFLE: A progressive raffle utilizing a standard playing card
deck of fifty-four (54) cards that continues until the “Queen of Hearts,” is
chosen. If the Queen of Hearts is not chosen, the net proceeds of the grand
prize pool carry to the next round, and new tickets are sold, until the winning
ticket reveals the Queen of Hearts.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in Section
10-5-5-1  of this Code, conducted by an organization licensed under this
Article, in which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance, and
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the raffle, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   “Raffle” does not include any game designed to simulate: (1) gambling games
as defined in the Illinois Gambling Act, (2) any casino game approved for play
by the Illinois Gaming Board, (3) any games provided by a video gaming
terminal, as defined in the Video Gaming Act, or (4) a savings promotion raffle
authorized under Section 5g of the Illinois Banking Act, Section 7008 of the
Savings Bank Act, Section 42.7 of the Illinois Credit Union Act, Section 5136B
of the National Bank Act, or Section 4 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act.
   Bingo, as regulated by the State of Illinois pursuant to the Bingo License
and Tax Act (230 ILCS 25/1, et seq.), and the State Lottery, as regulated by
the State of Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Lottery Law (20 ILCS 1605/1, et
seq.), shall not be considered raffles subject to the provisions of this
Article.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious workshop.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ords. 87-11-44, 24-09-31)
3-4J-3: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
Raffles shall be conducted only by organizations licensed pursuant to this
Section, and such licenses are subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   The application for license must specify the area or areas within the
Village in which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time period during
which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time of determination of
winning chances, and the location or locations at which winning chances will be
determined.
   B.   The license application must contain a sworn statement attesting to the
not-for-profit character of the prospective license organization, signed by the
presiding officer and the secretary of their organization.
   C.   Each such license shall be valid only for the number of raffles
specified in the license; said raffles to be conducted during the specific
period of time specified in the license, not to exceed one year.
   D.   Licenses shall be issued to bona fide business, religious, charitable,
labor, fraternal, educational or veterans’ organizations that operate without
profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously for a
period of five (5) years immediately before making application for a license
and which have had during that entire five (5) year period a bona fide
membership engaged in carrying out their objects.
   E.   Licenses shall be issued to any nonprofit fund raising organization
that the Village determines is organized for the sole purpose of providing
financial assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals
suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of illness, disability,
accident or disaster. (Ords. 87-11-44, 87-24-101)
3-4J-4: LICENSE FEES, ISSUANCE:
   A.   There shall be no fee for the license issued under this Article.
   B.   When all the requirements of this Article have been met, the license
shall be issued by the Village Clerk. (Ord. 87-11-44)
3-4J-5: LICENSE ISSUE RESTRICTIONS:
No such license shall be issued to:
   A.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony.
   B.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter.
   C.   Any person who is not of good moral character.
   D.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsections A, B
or C above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in which such a
person is active or employed.
   E.   Any organization in which a person in subsections A, B or C of this
Section is an officer, director of employee, whether compensated or not.
   F.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections A, B or C
above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as defined
in this Article. (Ord. 87-11-44)
3-4J-6: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES; PREMISES:
   A.   The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle.
      4.   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this Article.
      5.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the licenses.
      6.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in
the conducting of raffles of chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18)
years may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only
when accompanied by his parent or guardian.
   B.   If a lessor rents premises where a winning chance or chances on a
raffle are determined, the lessor shall not be criminally liable if the person
who uses the premises for the determining of winning chances does not hold a
license. (Ord. 87-11-44)
3-4J-7: RAFFLES MANAGER, BOND:
All operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of a
single raffles manager designated by the organization. The manager shall give a
fidelity bond in the sum of an amount determined by the Village in favor of the
organization conditioned upon his honesty in the performance of his duties.
Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the
licensing authority not less than thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation.
The Village may waive this bond requirement by including a waiver provision in
the license issued to an organization under this Article provided that a
license containing such waiver provision shall be granted only where a
unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization has approved the
waiver of the raffles manager’s bond. (Ord. 87-11-44)
3-4J-8: RECORDS:
   A.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
the records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deductions, and the
recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee,
purpose, amount and date of payment.
   B.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the Department of Revenue of the State
of Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   C.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report monthly to
its membership, and to the Village, its gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as
required in this Section.
   D.   Records required by this Section shall be preserved for three (3) years
and organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places. (Ord. 87-11-44)
3-4J-9: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes and merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle should not exceed two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000.00).
   B.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded in a single raffle
should not exceed two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00).
   C.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or
sold shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   D.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
shall not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.
   E.   The above restrictions shall not apply to the Queen of Hearts Raffles.
(Ords. 87-11-44, 24-09-31)
3-4J-10: RECIPROCITY:
The Village Clerk may issue a raffle license to an organization upon payment of
the required license fee, provided that:
   A.   The organization has been issued a raffle license by a municipality
which is adjacent to the Village; and
   B.   Said adjacent municipality’s raffle ordinance is substantially similar
to the provisions of this Article and complies with the requirements of the
Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act, 230 ILCS 15/0.01, et seq.; and
   C.   The Village has a written mutual licensing agreement in regard to
raffles with said adjacent municipality.
If the foregoing conditions have been met, the organization need not make
application and need not comply with the provisions of Sections
3-4J-7  and subsection 3-4J-8C. (Ord. 87-11-44)
3-4J-11: QUEEN OF HEARTS RAFFLES:
To the extent there any conflicts with other provisions of this Article J, the
following requirements shall apply to and control Queen of Hearts Raffles:
   A.   In addition to the requirements of Section
3-4J-3 , an application for a Queen of Hearts Raffle license must also include:
      1.   A complete copy of the rules governing the Queen of Hearts Raffle,
which must indicate the percentage of net proceeds of the grand prize pool that
will be paid to the grand prize winner and the percentage of the sponsoring
organization’s share of receipts.
      2.   A plan to maintain the integrity and security of all funds received
for the Queen of Hearts Raffle, including a plan for security for the location
where the raffle will operate.
      3.   Manner in which payout(s) will be made.
      4.   Such proof and documents that the Village may reasonably request to
determine the organization’s ability to comply with this section and the
Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act, 230 ILCS 15/0.01, et. seq.
   B.   A Queen of Hearts Raffle shall not be subject to Section
3-4J-9  but shall be limited in the following manner:
      1.   A Queen of Hearts Raffle shall have a limit of two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) paid out to the grand prize winner.
      2.   Any secondary prize(s), if applicable based on the licensee’s rules,
should not exceed two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00).
      3.   The maximum price which may be charged for each Queen of Hearts
Raffle chance issued or sold shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      4.   No more tickets may be sold after such a time as sufficient money is
available to pay the $2,000,000.00 grand prize winner. In that event, the
drawing shall continue from that week’s Queen of Hearts Raffle until there is a
grand prize winner.
      5.   Purchasers of Queen of Hearts Raffle tickets must register their
names and addresses with the sponsoring organization.
      6.   The Village may, in its discretion, restrict purchase and
registration of tickets based on safety and health concerns.
   C.   A Queen of Hearts Raffle license shall be valid for a specified period,
not to exceed one (1) year. The Queen of Hearts Raffle must take place at the
location on the application, on the dates and times indicated on the
application. If a Queen of Hearts Raffle cannot be concluded within the
licensed period, the license holder must renew the license. If the license is
not renewed, the Queen of Hearts Raffle must conclude within the license
period. (Ord. 24-09-31)
ARTICLE K. TEENAGE CABARETS/JUICE BARS
SECTION:
3-4K-1: Definition
3-4K-2: License Required
3-4K-3: Application For License
3-4K-4: License Fee
3-4K-5: General Conditions Of License
3-4K-6: Special Conditions Of License
3-4K-7: Location Restriction
3-4K-8: Penalty; Revocation
3-4K-1: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this article, a "teenage cabaret/juice bar" is defined as a
private commercial, recreational and entertainment facility, designed or
intended to be used primarily by, but not limited to, patrons under the age of
twenty one (21) years old, where patrons enjoy dancing, live and recorded music
and entertainment or where videotape presentations are shown. (Ord. 89-21-67)
3-4K-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a teenage cabaret/juice bar within the village
without first having obtained a license therefor as herein provided. (Ord. 89-
21-67)
3-4K-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for such license shall be made to the village clerk and shall
include the following information:
   A.   Name and address of the owner/operator. If a corporation, the state of
incorporation, as well as the names and addresses of all officers of the
corporation;
   B.   The names and addresses and positions of all employees and nonemployee
crowd control and supervision personnel. Said information shall be updated as
new employees and nonemployee crowd control and supervision personnel are
hired;
   C.   The intended hours of operation; and
   D.   The maximum occupancy load of the building or premises to be used, as
determined by the Oak Lawn fire department in accordance with the provisions of
the latest edition of the BOCA basic national building code adopted by the
village.
   E.   Such other information as may be required by the village from time to
time. (Ord. 89-21-67)
3-4K-4: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for a teenage cabaret/juice bar license shall be as set forth in
section
3-1-1-7 of this title. (Ord. 03-20-81)
3-4K-5: GENERAL CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
All teenage cabaret/juice bar licenses shall be subject to the following
conditions:
   A.   The building and premises used must be in full compliance with all
applicable provisions of this code.
   B.   The licensee shall be required to supply at least one qualified crowd
control and supervision person for every one hundred (100) persons, or portion
thereof, permitted to be within the building or premises licensed. Persons
qualified for crowd control shall include, but not be limited to, off duty
police officers and firefighters. Said qualified crowd control and supervision
personnel shall be responsible for crowd control both within the building used
by the licensee and the premises upon which said building is located. In the
event that the licensee uses village off duty police officers for crowd control
and supervision, the licensee shall include the police officers in the workers'
compensation insurance policy for their employees only while employed privately
in connection with the teenage cabaret/juice bar and the village shall be named
as an additional insured in the general liability insurance policy covering the
operation of said teenage cabaret/juice bar in an amount of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) aggregate coverage.
   C.   All patrons shall enter at only one entrance and be properly identified
and a count of those entering be kept; that all persons and clothing be checked
to make sure that no dangerous implements are brought into said licensed
premises; that once a person has been admitted such person shall not leave and
reenter without again paying the admission charge and being identified and
checked.
   D.   No alcoholic beverages will be served or permitted on the licensed
premises.
   E.   The manager of said teenage cabaret/juice bar shall be an adult,
preferably with experience in the administration of such facilities; that all
employees and nonemployee crowd control and supervision personnel of said
teenage cabaret/juice bar shall be checked by the police department for
previous criminal records. Within three (3) days of the hiring of a new
employee or nonemployee crowd control and supervision person, the owner/
operator shall notify the village clerk in writing of the name of the new
employee or nonemployee crowd control and supervision person so that the police
department can perform the required criminal record check.
   F.   No license required by this article shall be issued to an establishment
which has an employee, or has a nonemployee crowd control and supervision
person, who is a convicted felon, or has been placed on supervision for, or
been convicted of, a violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-6, 5/11-
9, 5/11-11, 5/11-14, 5/11-15, 5/11-15.1, 5/11-16, 5/11-17, 5/11-19, 5/11-19.1,
5/11-19.2, 5/11-20, 5/11-20.1, 5/11-21, 5/12-15 or 5/12-16.1.
   G.   The coat check area will be supervised and patrolled.
   H.   Building and fire code regulations shall at all times be enforced.
(Ord. 89-21-67)
3-4K-6: SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
All teenage cabaret/juice bar licenses shall be subject to the following
special conditions during any period of time when individuals under the age of
eighteen (18) years old are permitted on the licensed premises.
   A.   The hours of operation shall be limited to:
      1.   Fridays: Eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight.
      2.   Saturdays: Eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight.
      3.   Evening preceding holidays: Eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. to twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight.
      4.   Sunday through Thursday: Three o'clock (3:00) P.M. to ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M.
   B.   Notwithstanding the aforesaid hours of operation, no provisions of law
establishing a curfew for persons of the ages affected are hereby modified or
repealed and that the licensee of said teenage cabaret/juice bar shall cause to
be audibly announced the curfew hours at least one-half (1/2) hour before said
curfew shall become effective.
   C.   The patrons of the teenage cabaret/juice bar shall be at least fourteen
(14) years of age, and under the age of twenty one (21) years old, and be the
holder of a valid high school identification card or other means of lawful
identification, unless entry is limited on a particular day or during
particular hours to only individuals under the age of fourteen (14) years old.
   D.   The licensee shall make responsible efforts not to permit persons under
seventeen (17) years of age to enter or remain upon the premises after ten
thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. on Sunday through Thursday or after eleven thirty
o'clock (11:30) P.M. on Friday and Saturday.
   E.   The parents of patrons shall be admitted to observe and as part of the
operating schedule, open houses for parents shall be arranged.
   F.   No smoking or rough dancing shall be permitted, no matches, lighters or
cigarettes shall be allowed to be brought onto the premises. A sign shall be
conspicuously posted informing the patrons what items cannot be brought into
said teenage cabaret/juice bar.
The aforementioned special conditions shall be in addition to the general
conditions set forth in section
3-4K-5 of this article. Where the special conditions of this section are more
restrictive than the general conditions of section
3-4K-5 of this article, the special conditions shall prevail. (Ord. 89-21-67)
3-4K-7: LOCATION RESTRICTION:
Teenage cabarets/juice bars shall be located only in the C-3 regional shopping
district and the M-1 restricted manufacturing district, provided the operator
of said teenage cabaret/juice bar first applies for and receives a special use
permit to operate such an establishment in accordance with the provisions of
title 4, chapter 14 of this code, and teenage cabarets/juice bars shall not be
located within three hundred feet (300') of a park, a school or a church, as
measured from the closest lot line to the closest lot line of the respective
properties. (Ord. 01-14-48)
3-4K-8: PENALTY; REVOCATION:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this
article shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   B.   In addition to the fine provisions of subsection A of this section, the
general license revocation provisions of section
3-1-6 of this title shall be applicable to teenage cabaret/juice bar licensees.
(Ords. 89-21-67, 99-5-11, 01-14-48)
CHAPTER 5
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: License Registration; Fee And Term
3-5-3: Application For License
3-5-4: Issuance Of License
3-5-5: Prohibited Acts
3-5-6: Security
3-5-7: Display Of License
3-5-8: Records Of Purchases
3-5-9: Report Of Rental Of Premises By Owner
3-5-10: Revocation Of License Or Registration
3-5-11: Exemptions
3-5-12:    Penalty
3-5-13:    Street Solicitation
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: Any benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or
eleemosynary person which solicits and collects funds for charitable purposes
including each local, county, or area division of such charitable organization.
CHARITABLE PURPOSE: Any charitable, benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or
eleemosynary purpose.
ITINERANT MERCHANT: Any individual, corporation, partnership, organization or
other entity, except those defined in section
3-8-1  of this title, engaged in the sale, delivery or purchase of goods, wares
or merchandise and who for the purpose of conducting such
business temporarily occupies any fixed place of business whether it is a
building, room, vehicle or structure of any kind or vacant lot or other place
and holds less than a year’s lease on any such space.
PEDDLERS: Any individual, corporation, partnership, organization or other
entity which offers goods, wares or merchandise for sale by seeking out
customers in door to door canvasses.
PERSON: Any individual, organization, group, association, partnership,
corporation, trust, or any combination of them.
SOLICITORS: Any individual, corporation, partnership, organization or other
entity which seeks financial or nonfinancial support for political, charitable
or other causes.
STREET SOLICITATION: The act of any person standing in or on any street,
roadway, highway, or intersection within the Village of Oak Lawn for the
purpose of requesting directly or indirectly, money, credit, property,
financial assistance, or other thing of value from the occupant of any vehicle.
(Ords. 93-14-57, 24-19-70)
3-5-2: LICENSE REGISTRATION; FEE AND TERM:
Peddlers, solicitors, and itinerant merchants shall register by applying to
obtain a license to engage in itinerant selling, peddling and soliciting within
the village. Notwithstanding the fact that a corporation, partnership,
organization or other entity may have several individual peddlers, solicitors,
or itinerant merchants in the village at one time, a separate application shall
be submitted for each individual, and each individual shall be required to
obtain a separate license. Each individual, corporation, partnership,
organization or other entity whom the individual is employed by or represents
shall be limited to holding any one or more licenses issued under this chapter
for a cumulative maximum of four (4) weeks per calendar year. The license fee
shall be $125 per week per license and shall be required for each individual
peddler or solicitor. Itinerant merchants, where applicable, shall be licensed
by the state under the Transient Merchant Act of 1987. License fees will be
waived for charitable organizations. (Ords. 93-14-57, 03-20-81, 23-12-42, 24-
19-70)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for license shall be made upon a form provided by the village
clerk. Each person engaged in peddling or soliciting shall apply for an
individual license. The applicant shall, under oath state in full the
following:
   A.   Applicant’s name, address, phone number, and birth date, together with
a copy of applicant’s driver’s license or state identification card.
   B.   Name of business or organization, whom the applicant is employed by or
represents, and address, phone number and state where business or organization
is incorporated (if applicable).
   C.   Nature of organization or business.
   D.   Name, address, and phone number of the organization’s or business’
representative, owner, manager or operator who will manage or conduct activity
which is subject of the license.
   E.   Type of license sought.
   F.   Location where sale will be held in village; or specific boundaries of
the area where peddling or soliciting will take place.
   G.   Dates during which sale, purchasing, peddling or soliciting will take
place and period of time of license requested, not to exceed a cumulative
maximum of four (4) weeks per calendar year, pursuant to section
3-5-2  of this chapter.
   H.   Description of goods to be sold or purchased, or nature of
solicitation.
   I.   Number of persons to be involved in peddling or solicitation, each of
whom must apply for an individual license, pursuant to section
3-5-2  of this chapter.
   J.   Dates on which previous licenses were issued by the village and
information regarding revocation of prior business licenses.
   K.   Information regarding any convictions of applicant and of owner,
manager or operator for violating any village business regulation, or any state
statute regarding the subject matter of the license.
   L.   Evidence that solicitors, where applicable, have complied with
provisions of the Solicitation for Charity Act, 225 ILCS 460.01 et seq.
   M.   Evidence that itinerant merchants and peddlers, where applicable, have
complied with the provisions of the Transient Merchant Act of 1987.
   N.   Evidence that the applicant has presented their application and
proposed plans for peddling or soliciting activities at a regular meeting of
the President of the Village and the Village Board of Trustees, confirming the
accuracy of all application information referenced in this section at said
meeting. The requirements of this section may be met by presenting plans for
peddling or soliciting activities during the public comment period of a regular
meeting, consistent with the rules governing public comments, or by scheduling
a time for presentation with the Village Clerk.
   O.   Any charitable organization seeking to solicit funds on streets in the
Village must also provide a certificate of insurance with an appropriate level
of insurance as required by village ordinance.
   P.   Any other information required by the village. (Ords. 93-14-57, 24-19-
70)
3-5-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The clerk, upon receipt of a properly completed application, including evidence
that each applicant has presented their application and proposed plans for
peddling or solicitation activities to the President of the Village and the
Village Board of Trustees, pursuant to section
3-5-3  of this chapter, but in no event later than ten (10) working days after
the receipt of the application, shall either issue a license or notify the
applicant, in writing, that the application has been denied because:
   A.   The applicant has failed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter; or
   B.   The applicant, owner, manager or operator has, within the previous
year, been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
its predecessor, or the ordinance of any other municipality, or state or
federal statute regulating selling, soliciting, or peddling; or a violation of
any law where the offense for which the applicant was convicted took place in
connection with the applicant’s alleged selling, soliciting or peddling. (Ords.
93-14-57, 24-19-70)
3-5-5: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Uninvited Peddling Or Soliciting:
      1.   No person shall engage in solicitation or peddling upon any
commercial premises, dwelling house, apartment or other residence after having
been asked by the owner, manager, agent or occupant thereof to leave such
commercial premises or residence.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in peddling or
solicitation upon any commercial premises or residence if such commercial
premises or residence is posted against solicitation or peddling by means of a
notice, prominently displayed upon which is printed the legend:
         NO SOLICITORS OR PEDDLERS
For purposes of this subsection A, a commercial premises, a dwelling house,
apartment or other place of residence shall be deemed to be posted against
solicitation or peddling if there is exhibited, on or near the main entrance to
the premises or on or near the main door to any residence located thereon, a
sign at least three inches by four inches (3" x 4") in size with letters at
least one-third inch (1/3") in height, which bears the above legend. Signs
complying with the foregoing requirements shall be made available at cost at
the office of the village clerk to persons requesting the same.
   B.   False Statements And Representations:
      1.   No person who engages in itinerant selling, purchasing, solicitation
or peddling shall use any plan, scheme or ruse or make any statement which
indicates or implies that his or her purpose is other than to make sales,
purchases, collect funds or seek nonfinancial support for the business or
organization named in the license issued.
      2.   No person who engages in itinerant selling or peddling shall
misrepresent the right of a buyer to rescind or cancel a sale under the
provisions of applicable law.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any itinerant merchant, peddler or
solicitor to cheat, deceive or make fraudulent misrepresentations, or for any
itinerant merchant or peddler to barter, sell or peddle any goods, merchandise
or wares other than those specified in his or her application for a license.
   C.   Peddling Or Soliciting After Hours: It shall be unlawful for any person
to engage in peddling or solicitation at any time prior to nine o’clock (9:00)
A.M. or after seven o’clock (7:00) P.M., local time, of any weekday; at any
time prior to ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. or after six o’clock (6:00) P.M. on a
Saturday; or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
   D.   Obstructing Traffic: No itinerant merchant, solicitor or peddler shall
interfere with either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on any public right of
way.
   E.   Solicitation On Highways: Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-1006(c), no person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle except when expressly permitted
by village ordinance. The village shall determine by ordinance where and when
solicitations may take place based on the safety of the solicitors and the
safety of the motorists. The decision shall also take into account the orderly
flow of traffic and may not allow interference with the operation of official
traffic control devices. Solicitation on highways shall further comply with all
other applicable rules and regulations of this chapter. (Ords. 93-14-57, 08-04-
14, 24-19-70)
3-5-6: SECURITY:
Before any license, as provided by this chapter, except those licenses for
which fees are waived, shall be issued, an applicant shall file with the
village clerk security in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), in the
form of a bond executed by the applicant, or owner, manager or operator, as
principal, and two (2) sureties upon whom service of process may be made in the
state to ensure that said applicant, owner, manager or operator shall comply
fully with all the ordinances of the village and the statutes of the state.
Security shall be terminated or returned within ten (10) days after the
expiration of the license if no charges of violations have been brought. If
charges are brought, security shall be held pending the outcome or settlement.
(Ords. 93-14-57, 24-19-70)
3-5-7: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Licenses under this chapter shall be posted conspicuously where business is to
be conducted. In regard to peddlers and solicitors, a large personal
identification license shall be displayed conspicuously on the outer garment of
the registered peddler or solicitor at all times when engaged in soliciting or
peddling within the village. Itinerant merchants, peddlers and solicitors shall
carry sufficient quantities of business cards, or other written materials, with
accurate contact information, including the name of the licensee and their
business, address, and phone number. Such business cards, or other written
materials with the licensee’s contact information, must be provided to
individuals upon request. (Ords. 93-14-57, 24-19-70)
3-5-8: RECORDS OF PURCHASES:
Every itinerant merchant who engages in purchasing goods shall keep a record of
those goods purchased including the amount paid for each item, the date of
purchase, the seller's name, address, driver's license number and a listing of
two (2) items of identification presented by the seller to verify the seller's
name and address. Such record shall be, at all reasonable times, open to the
inspection of the village's police department. (Ord. 93-14-57)
3-5-9: REPORT OF RENTAL OF PREMISES BY OWNER:
The owner, proprietor or manager of any hotel, motel, store or building of any
type shall report to the chief of police, within eight (8) hours after renting,
the name of any person who shall rent for less than a one year period a room or
other space for the purchase and/or sale of goods, wares or merchandise, giving
the location of the room or space so rented. (Ord. 93-14-57)
3-5-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR REGISTRATION:
Any license or registration under this chapter may be revoked by the village
manager because of any violation of this chapter or of any other ordinance of
the village, or of any state or federal law, but not before the licensee or
registrant has been given at least three (3) days' notice and an opportunity to
be heard by the village manager on the issue of whether said license or
registration should be revoked. (Ord. 93-14-57)
3-5-11: EXEMPTIONS:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this chapter, the
following shall not be subject to the registration and licensing/permitting
provisions contained in this Chapter:
   A.   Pursuant to the United States supreme court’s holding in Watchtower
Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. v. Village of Stratton, (2002 WL
1305851 - June 17, 2002), any person engaging in the door to door advocacy of a
particular position or cause, with or without the distribution of pamphlets,
handbills or literature relative to said position or cause, unless said person
is also engaging in the sale of goods or services, the taking of orders
relative to the sale of goods or services or the solicitation of funds while
engaging in the door to door advocacy of said position or cause; and
   B.   Minors engaged in fundraising activities to support: (1) a federally
chartered charitable organization (such as Girl Scouts or Boy Scouts of
America); (2) an activity organized and operated by a public or private school
or unit of local government; (3) an organization organized as a Not For Profit
entity and registered with the State of Illinois as a Charitable Organization;
or (4) a similar Not For Profit organization that has a chapter or club based
in the Village of Oak Lawn, as approved by the Village Manager.
   C.   Law enforcement personnel, firefighters, or other persons employed to
protect the public safety of the Village, who will be soliciting for charitable
purposes on behalf of a charitable organization, as defined in Section 2 of the
Charitable Games Act, who file an application with the Village in accordance
with Section 11-80-9 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-80-9, in
which case the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-80-9 shall apply. (Ords. 02-18-71,
24-19-70)
3-5-12: PENALTY: 
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. Each day of violation, and each violating
individual at each violating location shall be considered a separate offense
under this chapter. (Ord. 24-19-70)
3-5-13: STREET SOLICITATION:
   A.   General Prohibition: Except as expressly permitted below, and subject
to the provisions of Section
3-5-5 of this Code, no person may stand in or on any street, roadway, highway,
or intersection within the Village of Oak Lawn for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   Exception: A permit may be granted as outlined below, to certain
charitable organizations to solicit contributions from the occupants of stopped
vehicles at certain signalized intersections within the Village of Oak Lawn.
   C.   Application: Applications for permits for street solicitation shall be
made at least thirty (30) days in advance of the earliest date requested, but
in no case prior to January 1st of the applicable year. Applications shall be
submitted to the village clerk, upon the form designated by the village clerk
therefor. Applications shall be accompanied by indications of compliance with
the eligibility requirements of Section
3-5-3 of this chapter and a certificate of insurance in the amount of not less
than $1,000,000.00 per claim and $2,000,000.00 per occurrence, naming the
Village of Oak Lawn as an additional insured party and a certificate holder,
and a signed agreement indemnifying and holding the Village of Oak Lawn
harmless for negligent acts of the organization’s solicitors resulting in
injuries to any person or property during the solicitation which is causally
related to an act of negligence of the soliciting agent. The current
certificate of insurance covering the actual date(s) of solicitation must be
provided to the village clerk at least thirty (30) days before the earliest
requested solicitation date. The village clerk may from time to time amend the
application and/or permit forms within the limitations of this chapter.
   D.   Eligibility: Charitable organizations eligible to apply for
solicitation permits shall be (1) registered with the Illinois Attorney General
as a charitable organization pursuant to the Solicitation for Charity Act, 225
ILCS 460/1 et seq.; (2) engaged in a statewide fund raising activity; and (3)
liable for any injuries to any person or property during the solicitation which
is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the soliciting agent.
   E.   Dates Permitted: No charitable organization may conduct more than one
(1) street solicitation fundraiser of up to two (2) consecutive days in length
per year. Permits may only be requested for dates between April 1 and November
15, inclusive.
   F.   Age; Safety Vest and Identification Required: Any person engaged in the
act of street solicitation shall be eighteen (18) years of age or more and
shall be wearing a high visibility yellow or orange safety vest and clear
identification of the organization undertaking the solicitation.
   G.   Safety; Adherence to Traffic Regulations:
      1.   Solicitors shall not approach a moving vehicle or one that does not
have a window down. Solicitors shall approach only after an occupant has given
some sign of assent to approach.
      2.   Solicitors shall only enter the roadway while the traffic signal for
that lane is red and shall not enter the roadway while traffic is moving.
      3.   No solicitor shall at any time enter or remain in the traveled
portion of the roadway or solicit in a manner which impedes the flow of
traffic.
      4.   No person shall solicit in the public right-of-way at any time or
place not designated in the application permit under which the person is
conducting the solicitation.
   H.   Locations; Hours: Solicitations shall only be conducted at approved
traffic control intersections, as designated in the approved permit, when
traffic has come to a full stop. Based on the safety of potential street
solicitors and the safety of motorists, and considering the safe and orderly
flow of traffic, solicitations may be permitted only during daylight hours, but
not earlier than seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. and not later than six o’clock (6:
00) p.m. Central Time, and only at signalized intersection within the corporate
limits of the Village of Oak Lawn.
   I.   Permits: The village clerk shall issue individual permits to street
solicitors affiliated with organizations meeting the application requirements
of this chapter, subject to the limitations above. However, no more than one
permit shall be issued by the Village for the same date for the same
intersection. If applicants affiliated with two (2) or more organizations apply
for permits for the same dates for the same intersection, the village clerk
shall resolve this conflict on a first come, first served basis, based upon the
date and time of application. All street solicitors shall carry, and show on
request, a copy of their permit for street solicitation. Solicitors may only
solicit on behalf of a permitted organization and such solicitation may only
occur during a permitted charitable solicitation event.
   J.   Violations; Adverse Weather: Any violations of the provisions of this
chapter or extraordinarily adverse weather conditions may cause the village to
suspend all soliciting activities.
   K.   Penalty: Any person or organization, charitable or other, violating the
prohibition of this chapter against street solicitation except as expressly
permitted shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor
more seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day of
violation, and each violating solicitor at each violating location shall be
considered a separate offense under this chapter. Prior violations shall be
considered valid cause to deny subsequent permit applications. (Ord. 24-19-70)
CHAPTER 6
MERCHANDISING
ARTICLE A. COAL YARDS AND LUMBERYARDS
SECTION:
3-6A-1: Coal Yards
3-6A-1-1: Definition
3-6A-1-2: Application For License
3-6A-1-3: Storage Regulations
3-6A-2: Lumberyards
3-6A-1: COAL YARDS:
3-6A-1-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the term "coal yard" shall mean any building,
enclosure, lot or other place where any anthracite, bituminous or lignite coal,
briquette coke, petroleum coke or any other manufactured or patented fuel not
sold by liquid or metered measure, is kept for sale, sold or offered for sale.
(1951 Code
11-2-1)
3-6A-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for a license to operate or maintain a coal yard shall state
the location of such coal yard and the name of the person maintaining or
operating the same 1 . (1951 Code
11-2-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1-7 of this Title.
3-6A-1-3: STORAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Flammable Liquids: No coal, coke or other solid fuel kept in any coal
yard shall be stored for sale in the same building with fuel oil, gasoline, or
other flammable liquids unless separated therefrom by a fireproof wall.
   B.   Boilers And Furnaces: It shall be the duty of every person conducting
or operating a coal yard to store all soft coal away from the brickwork of
boilers and furnaces.
   C.   Prevention Of Spontaneous Combustion: Whenever coal in storage or
stockpiles in any coal yard shows indications of spontaneous ignition or gives
off gases, it shall be the duty of the licensee, agent or person in charge or
control of the premises to turn over and overhaul such coal pile and remove all
portions of coal showing indications of ignition or coking. The floor or ground
surface of all coal yards shall at all times be kept free from flammable waste
material and accumulations of combustible waste materials. (1951 Code
11-2-4)
3-6A-2: LUMBERYARDS:
The application for a license to keep, conduct or maintain a lumberyard or a
place for the sale, storing or keeping of lumber shall set forth the name of
the applicant and the place where it is desired to keep such lumberyard or the
place to be used for the storage or sale of lumber 1 . (1951 Code
11-9-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1-7 of this Title.
ARTICLE B. JUNK DEALERS 1
SECTION:
3-6B-1: Stolen Goods
3-6B-2: Vehicles To Be Marked
3-6B-3: Licenses
3-6B-4: Restrictions
3-6B-5: Definitions
3-6B-6: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1-7 of this Title.
3-6B-1: STOLEN GOODS:
Every junk dealer who shall receive or be in possession of any goods, article
or things of value which may have been lost or stolen shall, upon demand,
produce such article or things to any member of the Police Department for
examination. (1951 Code
11-8-3)
3-6B-2: VEHICLES TO BE MARKED:
Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his business shall bear
thereon in legible characters, the name and address of the owner thereof. (1951
Code
11-8-4)
3-6B-3: LICENSES:
Every junk dealer shall obtain all licenses required of such junk dealer, and
pay such fees for said licenses, as are set forth in Section
3-1-1-7 of this Title. (Ord. 87-22-97)
3-6B-4: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any junk dealer to rummage through any items
placed for collection by the Village's refuse collector so as to cause, permit
or suffer any of said items, including, but not limited to, garbage or
offensive substances, to be scattered about, or to remain at the location at
which they were placed for collection by the Village's refuse collector other
than as prescribed in the garbage, refuse and debris regulations contained in
Title 8, Chapter 5 of this Code.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any junk dealer to collect, obtain, possess,
rummage through or pick up any recyclable item placed for collection as part of
the Village recycling program.
   C.   Under its home rule powers, the Village hereby restricts the hours
during which a junk dealer may collect, obtain or procure items set out for
collection by the Village's refuse collector to three o'clock (3:00) P.M. to
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   D.   All junk dealer licenses issued within the Village shall contain a
statement in regard to the restrictions set forth in subsections A, B and C of
this Section, as well as the requirement set forth in Section
3-6B-2 of this Article. (Ord. 89-4-9)
3-6B-5: DEFINITIONS:
JUNK: When used in this Article, shall mean and include old iron, chain, brass,
copper, tin, lead or other base metals, old rope, old bags, rags, wastepaper,
paper clippings, scraps of woolens, clips, bagging, rubber, wood, plastic and
glass, empty bottles of different kinds and sizes when the number of each kind
or size is less than one gross, and all articles and things discarded or no
longer used as a manufactured article composed of, or consisting of, any one or
more of the materials or articles herein mentioned.
JUNK DEALER: When used in this Article, shall include every person, firm or
corporation that shall engage at a junk store in the business of buying,
selling, bartering or exchanging, or that shall collect, receive, store or hold
in possession for sale, barter or exchange any of the things defined herein as
"junk", whether dealing at wholesale or at retail, or as a junk peddler.
JUNK PEDDLER: When used in this Article, shall mean and include every person
who uses a "junk wagon" as defined herein and travels from place to place
within the Village for the purpose of purchasing, collecting, obtaining,
procuring or receiving junk, or makes a business of purchasing or collecting,
obtaining, procuring or receiving junk from anyone who desires to sell it or
give it away, and carries it away upon purchasing, collecting, obtaining,
procuring, or receiving it.
JUNK WAGON: When used in this Article, shall mean every truck, wagon,
automobile, pushcart or other vehicle used by a junk dealer or junk peddler in
the collection, disposition or transportation of junk from one place to
another. (Ord. 89-4-9)
3-6B-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this Article shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00), nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (Ords. 87-22-97, 99-5-11)
ARTICLE C. FLORISTS
SECTION:
3-6C-1: Definition
3-6C-2: Application for License
3-6C-3: Sanitary Conditions
3-6C-4: Compliance With State Law
3-6C-1: DEFINITION:
The word "florist" as used in this Article shall be construed to mean any
building, room, stand, enclosure, premises, place, establishment or part of
establishment in the Village, operated, maintained or conducted for the sale,
or offering or keeping for sale at wholesale or retail, flowers, plants, trees
or shrubs of all varieties and description. (1951 Code
11-5-1)
3-6C-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license to conduct the business of florist shall state the
name and address of the applicant, a description of the place where the
business is to be conducted and the name and home address of the proprietor,
owner and person designated to manage such place of business 1 . (1951 Code
11-5-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1-7 of this Municipal Code for license fee.
3-6C-3: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
Every establishment where the business of a florist is conducted, managed or
carried on shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. No decayed,
decaying, unwholesome, contaminated or diseased flowers, plants or other
things, shall be allowed to remain in or about said establishments, and said
establishments shall be kept clear of rubbish and inflammable matter. (1951
Code
11-5-4)
3-6C-4: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
Florists' establishments shall comply with all State laws governing the sale,
possession, growing or disposition of noxious, diseased or infected plants,
trees or shrubs. (1951 Code
11-5-4)
ARTICLE D. DEPARTMENT STORES
SECTION:
3-6D-1: Definition
3-6D-2: Application for License
3-6D-1: DEFINITION:
A "department store" is defined as a store in which more than two (2) distinct
lines of merchandise are sold or offered for sale. (1951 Code
11-3-2)
3-6D-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for a department store license shall state the name of the
applicant, the place where said business is to be carried on, the number of
persons engaged in the conduct of such business, and such other information as
shall be required by the Village Clerk 1 . (1951 Code
11-3-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1-7 of this Municipal Code for license fee.
ARTICLE E. CONSUMER COMMODITIES
SECTION:
3-6E-1: Definitions
3-6E-2: Price Marking and Display
3-6E-3: Exceptions to Provisions
3-6E-1: DEFINITIONS:
CONSUMER COMMODITY: Any article, product or commodity of any kind or class,
which is produced or distributed for sale at retail to the general public.
PERSON: Any individual, association, partnership or corporation.
SELLING PRICE: The price at which a consumer commodity is sold at retail on any
given date. In the case of commodities weighted by retailers, the selling price
shall only be computed by using the price per one pound as the basis for the
sale; provided, that the metric system may be employed where customary. (Ords.
78-18-44, 78-27-64)
3-6E-2: PRICE MARKING AND DISPLAY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to display for sale any consumer
commodity unless the selling price is accurately stated in a clear and
conspicuous manner. On any pre-packaged consumer commodity, except those sold
through vending machines, the selling price shall be marked directly on the
package.
   B.   On any consumer commodity which is not pre-packaged, the selling price
shall be stated on a sign contiguous to the point of display of the consumer
commodity so priced. (Ords. 78-18-44, 78-27-64, 78-29-79)
3-6E-3: EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS:
The following items are exempt from the price marking requirements of Section
3-6E-2 above:
   A.   Individual packages of liquor, motor oils, candy, cigars, cigarettes,
razor blades, and small packages of commodities displayed at the check-out
stands, at aisle ends directly across from the check-out stand, or at service
islands, may have a selling price indicated by means of individual signs
adjacent to each commodity or by a general sign stating the selling price of a
group of similar commodities such as hosiery, underwear, shirts, bedsheets,
spreads, pillow cases, batteries, paint and one unit size packages of ice cream
novelties.
      Examples:
         "All gum $0.15 per package".
         "20W motor oil $0.75".
         "10W30 motor oil $0.95".
   B.   Individual cans of frozen fruit juices, envelopes of powdered drinks,
jars of baby foods and continuity or premium offerings may be price marked by
means of individual signs.
      Example:
         "All 71/2 ozs. baby food jars $0.22"
   C.   Multipack commodities may be marked with a total selling price for the
complete multipack unit. The price may be on carrying handle attaching the cans
or bottles. Individual cans or bottles within this multipack unit need not be
marked with a selling price.
      Example: "Soft drinks 6 for $1.00".
   D.   That portion of a display of sale commodities used strictly for display
purposes and not expected to be sold during normal customer response to
advertising may be exempt from selling price marking, provided that portion is
not directly available to customers.
      Example: A section of unpriced packages of canned corn covered with other
packages of canned corn which are marked with a selling price. The amount of a
commodity expected to be sold during a sale period shall be based upon the
individual businesses' previous sales of the identical or similar commodity at
a comparable price at the same location.
   E.   Unit pricing of individual packages of cold cuts in delicatessen
departments displayed on rods may be exempt from the unit pricing requirements
of Section
3-6E-2, provided they are displayed by grouping specific weight categories,
such as eight (8) ounces together, and a sign is clearly and conspicuously
displayed advising consumers "all commodities on rods in this section are
grouped by weight category".
   F.   As an alternative to the price marking requirements of Section
3-6E-2, a retailer may put in place an alternative price notification system,
provided said retailer, and the alternative price notification system, comply
with the following requirements:
      1.   All retailers using an alternative price notification system must
register with the Department of Quality Control. Such registration shall be in
a form as required by the Department of Quality Control and shall, as a
minimum, include the name of the retailer, the location of the store(s) in
which the alternative price notification system has been put in place, a brief
description of the type of system being used, and the name of an individual at
the store who can be contacted in regard to the alternative price notification
system.
      2.   The alternative price notification system must include shelf tags on
conventional grocery shelves which indicate item, size and retail price of each
consumer commodity in a clear and conspicuous manner at the location where each
such commodity is displayed for sale. Said shelf tags shall at all times
indicate the correct retail price, and shall be immediately changed upon any
change in the retail price, whether by reason of a sale on the corresponding
consumer commodity or otherwise.
      3.   The alternative price notification system must be set up so that
each sale is documented by a receipt given to each purchaser which shall
indicate each consumer commodity purchased by name, the selling price of each
such commodity, and the model number, size, weight measure or count where
appropriate.
      4.   The alternative price notification system must operate with a ratio
of no greater than one incorrect price charge for every fifty (50) consumer
items purchased, or ninety eight percent (98%), in accordance with industry
standards for error as to such systems. Once a pricing error is brought to the
attention of the retailer, his agents, or employees, said error shall be
immediately corrected.
      5.   All retailers using an alternative price notification system shall
provide for an automatic double check of such systems whereby a programmer
other than the original programmer verifies the accuracy of the computerized
register system each time that said system is reprogrammed. If an alternative
price notification system includes a computerized system partially controlled
off the store premises, said system must be automatically double checked by a
person on the store premises before the price is exposed to the consumer.
      6.   All retailers using an alternative price notification system shall
maintain a file as to complaints from consumers in regard to the system. Said
retailers shall file a report on a quarterly basis with the Department of
Quality Control. Said reports shall be due on the fifteenth of January, April,
July and October and cover any complaints in regard to the alternative price
notification system received by the retailer during the preceding three (3)
calendar months. Said reports shall indicate the name of the complainant, the
date of the complaint, the location of the store the complaint is in regard to,
the nature of the complaint, and how the complaint was resolved. If no
complaints have been received by a retailer during the three (3) calendar
months' period prior to a quarterly report due date, a letter to this effect
shall be filed with the Department of Quality Control in lieu of the required
report.
      7.   The savings realized by reason of using an alternative price
notification system shall be passed on to the consumer. (Ords. 78-26-70, 84-15-
46)
CHAPTER 7
SERVICES
ARTICLE A. AUCTIONEERS
SECTION:
3-7A-1: Application for License, Investigation
3-7A-2: Prohibited Act, Sales on Public Ways
3-7A-3: Exemptions from Provisions
3-7A-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, INVESTIGATION:
Applications for auctioneers' licenses shall state the place of business, if
any, intended to be occupied; and the names of any employees, not to exceed two
(2), who are to be authorized to conduct auctions under the authority of the
license 1 . The Chief of Police shall investigate the character of every
applicant for an auctioneer's license and no such license shall issue to any
person who is not of good character. (1951 Code 11-1-2, 11-1-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1-7 of this Code for license fee.
3-7A-2: PROHIBITED ACT, SALES ON PUBLIC WAYS:
No person shall sell, or attempt to sell, or offer for sale at public auction,
any goods, chattels or personal or real property of any kind upon the public
streets or sidewalks of the Village. (1951 Code 11-1-4)
3-7A-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this Article shall apply to any public auction or sale made or
conducted by a public officer by virtue of any authority contained in a
mortgage or trust deed. (1951 Code 11-1-5)
ARTICLE B. AUTOMOBILE SERVICES
SECTION:
3-7B-1: Automobile Filling Stations
3-7B-1-1: Definition
3-7B-1-2: Application for License
3-7B-1-3: License Nontransferable
3-7B-1-4: Fire Prevention Regulations
3-7B-1-5: Compliance with Other Provisions
3-7B-1-6: Inspections
3-7B-2: Self-Service and Service Stations
3-7B-2-1: Definitions
3-7B-2-2: Self-Service Station Licensing Provisions
3-7B-2-3: Self-Service Station Rules
3-7B-2-4: Prohibited Conduct at Service Stations
3-7B-3: Public Garages
3-7B-3-1: Definition
3-7B-3-2: Contents of License and Application
3-7B-1: AUTOMOBILE FILLING STATIONS:
3-7B-1-1: DEFINITION:
The term "automobile filling station" as used in this Section is hereby defined
as any building, structure, premises, enclosure or other place within the
Village where a container or containers, tank or tanks, either portable or
stationary, and containing either carbon, bisulphite, gasoline, naphtha,
benzole, hydrocarbon (gas drips) liquefied petroleum gas, acetone, kerosene,
turpentine, or other flammable liquids having a flash point below one hundred
sixty five degrees (165°) F., are kept or located for sale, or the distributing
of any such liquids from such container or tank; provided, however, that the
provisions of this Section shall not apply to any place where such flammable
liquids are kept or sold for medicinal purposes only. (1951 Code
11-4-1)
3-7B-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for an automobile filling station license shall set forth the
name and address of the owner or operator of the filling station, the location
of the filling station, a description of each container or tank installed or to
be installed upon the premises, and the capacity of each measured in gallons,
and the type of construction of each building situated upon the premises 1 .
(1951 Code
11-4-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1-7 of this Code for license fee.
3-7B-1-3: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
No automobile filling station license granted under the provisions of this
Section shall be assigned or transferred to any person other than the licensee
named therein to do business or act under such license. (1951 Code
11-4-6)
3-7B-1-4: FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Smoking: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit smoking in any
automobile filling station.
   B.   Use of Flammable Liquids for Cleaning: Gasoline, benzine, naphtha and
similar flammable liquids shall not be used for washing or cleaning purposes
within any automobile filling station nor in the open air within a distance of
fifty feet (50') of any repair pit or any opening from any basement space.
Provisions of the Basic Fire Prevention Code, 1984, shall apply 1 .
   C.   Waste Disposal: Waste oil or other flammable liquids shall be stored in
metal containers pending removal from the premises. No such waste shall be
permitted to drain into any sewer or storm water drainage system. Rags and
soiled waste shall be kept in metal containers. (1951 Code
11-4-7,
11-4-8,
11-4-9)
 
Notes
1 2. See subsection 7-3-1A of this Code.
3-7B-1-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS:
The construction and equipment of filling stations, including tanks, and the
requirements for safety clearances around same, shall be made and maintained in
accordance with the provisions of the Building Code and other applicable
regulations. (1951 Code 11-4-10)
3-7B-1-6: INSPECTIONS:
Automobile filling stations shall be inspected by the Fire Chief or his
representative at least once every year. (1951 Code 11-4-10)
3-7B-2: SELF-SERVICE AND SERVICE STATIONS:
3-7B-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Section, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by these rules and regulations:
APPROVED SELF-SERVICE DISPENSING DEVICE: Any device listed by Underwriters
Laboratories and approved by the Village, but not including coin or card-
operated devices, used for the dispensing of such flammable and combustible
liquids into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles.
AUTHORIZED ATTENDANT: The owner, employee or agent who is authorized by the
licensee hereunder to dispense gasoline and other motor fuels. An authorized
attendant must be sixteen (16) years of age or older.
OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation holding title, lease, license or any
interest in a service station or self-service station.
SELF-SERVICE STATION: That portion of property of a service station where
flammable and combustible liquids used as motor fuels are stored and
subsequently dispensed from fixed approved dispensing equipment into the fuel
tanks of motor vehicles by persons other than an authorized service station
attendant.
SERVICE STATION: Any place of business where flammable and combustible liquids
(Class I, II or III liquids as set forth in Article 2, BOCA Basic Fire
Prevention Code, 1984) used as motor fuels are stored and subsequently
dispensed from fixed approved dispensing equipment into the fuel tanks of motor
vehicles. (Ord. 79-29-59; 1985 Code)
3-7B-2-2: SELF-SERVICE STATION LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of a self-
service station without first obtaining a license therefor.
   B.   Application for License: An application for a self-service license
shall be made in conformity with the general requirements of Section
3-1-2 of this Code and shall be accompanied by complete, detailed plans, in
triplicate, for each service station sought to be used as a self-service
station. Such plans shall be drawn to scale, and shall include the following:
      1.   Lot lines and dimensions;
      2.   Building lines and dimensions;
      3.   Location and size of tanks and pump islands;
      4.   Location of control station;
      5.   Type, make, model and location of dispensing devices or equipment;
      6.   Fire extinguisher locations;
      7.   Clearances;
      8.   Such other relevant information as may be requested by the Fire
Department of the Village.
   C.   Issuance of License, Term and Display: No construction of a self-
service station or modification of an existing service station to conduct self-
service business shall be commenced until such application and plans are given
written approval by the Fire Department of the Village and no such self-service
station shall open for business until inspected and approved by the Fire
Department and until the Chief of the Fire Department issues a self-service
station license, which must be displayed prominently, at all times, at such
self-service station. Said license shall be issued for a period of twelve (12)
months. (Ord. 79-29-59)
3-7B-2-3: SELF-SERVICE STATION RULES:
The following rules shall be followed and enforced at all self-service
stations, and the violation of any one or more of said rules shall constitute
good and just cause for suspension or revocation of a self-service station
license pursuant to Section
3-1-6 of this Code:
   A.   Use of Unattended Devices: The installation or use of unattended self-
service dispensing devices for motor fuel of any kind is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Prohibited Use of Premises: No dwelling or sleeping facilities of any
kind for the owner, authorized attendant or any other person shall be permitted
at a self-service station.
   C.   Non-Public Locations: Dispensing of such flammable and combustible
liquids at locations not open to the public does not require an attendant or
supervisor. Such locations may be used by commercial, industrial, governmental
or manufacturing establishments for fueling vehicles used in connection with
their businesses. However, this shall not include private fraternal clubs or
associations.
   D.   Special Dispensing Devices: Special dispensing devices for motor fuels
are not to be installed or used without prior written approval of the Village
Fire Department.
   E.   Fire Extinguishers: One type ABC fire extinguisher with a capacity of
ten (10) pounds shall be provided for each pump island containing four (4) or
less dispensing pumps; on pump islands containing more than four (4) dispensing
pumps, an additional extinguisher shall be provided for each four (4)
additional dispensing pumps or fraction thereof. Such extinguishers shall be
located at points approved by the Fire Department, away from the dispensing
area but close enough to the dispensing area to be readily available (not to
exceed one hundred feet (100'). Such extinguishers shall be plainly marked,
properly mounted and protected from the weather, and shall be maintained in
operable condition and available at all times when the self- service station is
open to the public. All employees of a self-service station shall be thoroughly
instructed as to the location and proper use of such extinguishers; and shall,
upon request, demonstrate their ability in such use to the approval of
representatives of the Fire Department of the Village.
   F.   Signs:
      1.   Signs giving instructions for the operation of gasoline dispensing
equipment must be conspicuously posted at each self-service station.
      2.   Signs bearing the following words must conspicuously be posted on
each gasoline pump island where self-service is offered:
Self Service Island
WARNING:
(A) Stop Engine;
(B) No Smoking;
(C) It is unlawful and dangerous for any one
other than the authorized attendant to dispense
gasoline into approved containers;
(D) It is unlawful and dangerous to dispense
gasoline without an authorized attendant on duty.
      3.   The signs shall be made of all-weather rigid material and the
wording, lettering, size, design, material, mounting and location of said sign
shall be subject to the reasonable approval of the Village Fire Department.
   G.   Protection of Devices: All fuel-dispensing units shall be mounted or
protected against collision damage by suitable means in a manner reasonably
approved by the Village Fire Department.
   H.   Control Station:
      1.   Every self-service station shall maintain a control station in a
location approved by the Fire Department, equipped in such a manner that the
flow of liquid fuel from any or all fuel- dispensing units may be stopped from
such control station. A master electric switch shall be maintained at such
control station so that electric power and pump lighting to all pumps may be
disconnected at one time, and said switch shall be plainly marked and easily
accessible.
      2.   The control station shall be located at ground level not more than
one hundred feet (100") from the farthest pump and shall be so located that the
authorized attendant of such control station shall have a clear and
unobstructed view of all pumps.
      3.   The authorized attendant shall at all times be able to communicate
with persons in the dispensing area. The Fire Department of the Village may, if
necessary, require a communications system between the control station and each
pump island.
   I.   Authorized Attendants:
      1.   Approved self-service dispensing devices are permitted at service
stations available and open to the public; provided, that all dispensing of
such flammable and combustible liquids by a person other than the service
station authorized attendant is under the supervision and control of a
qualified authorized attendant, and the dispensing nozzle is a listed
automatic-closing type and must be approved by the Village Fire Department.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the authorized attendant to:
         a.   Dispense such flammable and combustible liquids into approved
portable containers;
         b.   Control sources of ignition; and
         c.   Immediately handle accidental spills and fire extinguishers, if
needed.
The authorized attendant on duty shall be mentally and physically capable of
performing the functions and assuming the responsibility prescribed in this
paragraph.
      3.   At all times when a self-service station is open for public use, the
number of authorized attendants on duty shall be sufficient to safely operate
the self-service station. Not less than one authorized attendant shall be on
duty. No motor fuel shall be dispensed at any time when such authorized
attendant is not at or near the control station or pump island. The authorized
attendant's primary duty shall be to supervise the dispensing of motor fuels,
motor oils and services normally related to such dispensing. Such authorized
attendant shall refuse service to any person to be unable to dispense fuel
safely, and shall shut off the dispensing unit if a patron fails to follow
instructions in compliance with the rules. All authorized attendants and other
employees of the service station shall be thoroughly instructed in the
operation and use of the communication system, the control station and fire
extinguishing equipment, the operation of the dispensing units and safety
regulations for the dispensing of motor fuels.
   J.   Sale Of Food And Grocery Items: When any self-service station also
sells food or grocery items, there shall be at least two (2) attendants on duty
at all times when gas is also being sold (1 to observe and control the gasoline
dispensing and the other to make sales of food and grocery items); except, that
if the fire department finds that the layout of the station is to allow an
attendant selling food or grocery items to clearly observe the dispensing of
gasoline and safely control the dispensing area, the fire department may
certify in writing that such self-service station is permitted to operate with
one attendant. (Ords. 79-29-59, 83-17-41)
3-7B-2-4: PROHIBITED CONDUCT AT SERVICE STATIONS:
Except at service stations which hold current and valid self- service station
licenses issued hereunder, no person other than an owner of a service station
or an authorized attendant, shall use or operate any motor fuel dispensing
equipment at any service station. No owner of a service station shall cause or
permit any person to violate the provisions of this section. (Ord. 79-29-59)
3-7B-3: PUBLIC GARAGES:
3-7B-3-1: DEFINITION:
The words "public garage" as used in this section shall be held to mean, and
are hereby defined as meaning any building or other place within the village,
where automobiles, trucks or any similar self-propelled vehicles are kept or
let for hire or reward to any person, whether such vehicles are so hired out or
let with or without an operator for same; or where such vehicles are kept ready
for use and where rent is paid to the keeper thereof for such keeping, and
where such vehicles are repaired or serviced. (1951 Code 12-5-1)
3-7B-3-2: CONTENTS OF LICENSE AND APPLICATION 1 :
   A.   The application for a public garage license shall set forth the name of
the applicant and if an individual or individuals, the place of his or their
residence, and if a corporation, the names of the officers and their places of
residence. Such application shall also contain the location of the place at
which it is intended to keep such garage and the number of vehicles to be kept
in such garage for the purpose of letting for hire or reward.
   B.   Each public garage license shall set forth the location of the garage
and the number of vehicles which the licensees keep or intend to keep at such
licensed garage. (1951 Code 12-5-3, 12-5-5)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 3-1-1-7 of this title for license fee.
ARTICLE C. DRY CLEANING AND DYEING ESTABLISHMENTS 1
SECTION:
3-7C-1: Definitions
3-7C-2: Sanitary Conditions
3-7C-3: Use Of Dangerous Substances
3-7C-4: Quality Of Work
3-7C-5: Inspections
3-7C-6: Violations
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-1-7 of this title for license fee.
3-7C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
CLEANING AND DYEING ESTABLISHMENT: Includes any place or vehicle where the
service of dry cleaning, wet cleaning as a process incidental to dry cleaning,
dyeing, spotting and/or finishing any fabric is rendered for hire, or is sold,
resold or offered for sale or resale.
CLEANING PLANT: Includes any cleaning and dyeing establishment equipped to
perform dry cleaning.
DRY CLEANING: The process of cleaning fabrics by immersion and agitation, or by
immersion only, in volatile solvents (including, but not by way of limitation,
solvents of petroleum distillate type, the coal tar distillate type, and the
chlorinated hydrocarbon type) and processes incidental thereto (including, but
without limitation, spotting cleaning, wet cleaning and finishing).
FABRIC: Any article of wearing apparel, household furnishings, rugs, textiles,
fur and leather.
FINISHING: The process of pressing and/or reshaping any fabric, which is
designed to restore as nearly as possible the shape, dimension and contour of
said fabric.
PROPRIETOR: Any person by or for whom a cleaning plant is operated.
RETAIL OUTLET: Includes any cleaning and dyeing establishment located within
the village where dry cleaning is sold, solicited or offered for sale, directly
to the retail consumer, and also includes any automobile, truck or other
vehicle operated within the village from which dry cleaning is sold, solicited
or offered for sale, directly to the retail consumer.
RETAILER: Any person or member of the cleaning and dyeing trade by or for whom
a retail outlet is operated.
SPOTTING: The process designed to remove spots or stains which remain in a
fabric after it has been subjected to the other process of dry cleaning. (1951
Code 12-7-1)
3-7C-2: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises And Equipment: Every building or premises used or occupied by
a cleaning and dyeing establishment, cleaning plant or retail outlet located
within the village or used or occupied by a cleaning and dyeing plant not
located in the village but which has a retail outlet in the village, shall be
kept in a clean and sanitary condition as to its floors, sidewalls, ceilings,
woodwork and fixtures and as to the tools, machinery, equipment and storage
facilities used and kept in any such buildings or premises. At regular
intervals and at such other times as may be deemed necessary and as shall be
specified by the health and sanitation officer, the floors, sidewalls,
ceilings, woodwork and fixtures of any such building and premises and the
tools, machinery, equipment and storage facilities used or kept thereon shall
be washed or sprayed with a disinfectant in solution or other liquid form or
vapor approved by the Health and Sanitation Officer.
   B.   Employees: No person affected or afflicted with tuberculosis or any
other infectious or communicable disease shall be employed in any dry cleaning
establishment, cleaning plant or retail outlet located within the Village, or
in any cleaning and dyeing establishment or cleaning plant which is not located
in the Village but which has a retail outlet therein. The Health and Sanitation
Officer may require each employee of such cleaning and dyeing plant, cleaning
plant or retail outlet to be examined by a licensed and practicing physician
and may require any proprietor or retailer to file in the office of the Health
and Sanitation Officer, a certificate of health and freedom from tuberculosis
or other infectious or communicable disease for each person employed by him as
such proprietor or retailer, which certificate shall be signed by a licensed
and practicing physician. (1951 Code 12-7-3, 12-7-4; 1985 Code)
3-7C-3: USE OF DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES:
   A.   No chemical or other substance which is poisonous, injurious or
unwholesome to human beings and which is not essential to the service or
process of dry cleaning, dyeing, spotting or finishing shall be used in
rendering any dry cleaning service or performing any such process in any
cleaning and dyeing plant located within the Village or in any cleaning and
dyeing plant or cleaning plant which is not located within the Village but has
a retail outlet within the Village.
   B.   In case any such chemical or other substance which is poisonous,
injurious or unwholesome to human beings is used by any such cleaning and
dyeing establishment or cleaning plant in rendering any such service or
performing any such process essential thereto, then such chemical or other
substance shall be completely removed from the fabric dry cleaned, dyed or
spotted or finished or such chemical or other substance shall be completely and
entirely neutralized and rendered harmless and not noxious to human beings
before such fabric is permitted to leave such establishment or plant for
delivery to the person entitled to the possession thereof upon completion of
the process. (1951 Code 12-7-5)
3-7C-4: QUALITY OF WORK:
   A.   No finished or unfinished dry cleaning sold, solicited or offered for
sale within the Village shall show, upon the dry cleaned fabric being rerinsed
in water white solvent (one gallon to one pound of garment weight), sufficient
dirt or soil residue or other foreign deposits to darken dry solvent below
fifteen (15) Saybold Chorometer.
   B.   Finished dry cleaning sold, solicited or offered for sale within the
Village shall be free from solvent and chemical odors. (1951 Code 12-7-5)
3-7C-5: INSPECTIONS:
The Chief of the Fire Department or his designated representative shall have
the right to enter any building or premises situated within the Village and
used or occupied by any cleaning and dyeing establishment, cleaning plant or
retail outlet in order to examine same and to determine whether or not said
building and premises, or any material, articles or fabric dry cleaned, dyed,
spotted or finished as received, used, kept, maintained or stored on said
building or premises conform to the fire regulations within the Village. (1951
Code 12-7-6; 1985 Code)
3-7C-6: VIOLATIONS:
Any proprietor or retailer who shall represent any fabric as dry cleaned which
does not comply with the requirements of this Article, or who shall violate any
of the provisions of this Article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1951 Code
12-7-12)
ARTICLE D. BARBER SHOPS
SECTION:
3-7D-1: Application for License
3-7D-2: Sanitary Conditions
3-7D-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for a barber shop license shall state the name of the
applicant, the place where said barber shop is to be conducted and such other
information as may be pertinent 1 . (1951 Code 12-1-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1-7 of this Code for license fee.
3-7D-2: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
The premises used for a barber shop shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and all persons engaged in the operation of such barber shop must
keep themselves clean both as to person and clothing. Utensils and tools must
be sterilized before being used on a patron. It shall be unlawful to keep as a
barber or other employee in any such shop, any person afflicted with a
contagious disease of any kind. The Health and Sanitation Officer shall make or
cause to be made such inspections as may be necessary to insure compliance with
the provisions of this Article. (1951 Code 12-1-4; 1985 Code)
ARTICLE E. UNDERTAKERS
SECTION:
3-7E-1: Application for License
3-7E-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for an undertaker's or funeral director's license shall set
forth therein the name of the applicant and the place where such applicant's
business is to be conducted or carried on 1 . (1951 Code 12-3-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1-7 of this Code for license fee.
ARTICLE F. ADVERTISING BENCHES
SECTION:
3-7F-1: Permit And Application
3-7F-2: Permit Fee
3-7F-3: Conditions Of Permit
3-7F-4: Revocation Of Permit
3-7F-5: Advertising Benches On Private Property
3-7F-6: Penalty
3-7F-7: Permit Renewal, Five Year Option/Preference Period
3-7F-1: PERMIT AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Applications may be made to and on forms approved by the department of
quality control for rental permits allowing the installation of advertising
benches on public property along the streets and thoroughfares within the
village.
   B.   Each application for an advertising bench permit shall be accompanied
by the correct fee as defined in section
3-7F-2 of this article and said fee shall not be prorated.
   C.   Each year, applications for the one year advertising bench permit shall
be filed no sooner than April 1 preceding the permit year for which the
application applies. In the event that April 1 falls on a Saturday, Sunday or
holiday, the first business day after April 1 shall serve as the first day for
filing said applications.
   D.   The application for an advertising bench permit shall include:
      1.   The name, address and phone number of the business applying for the
license;
      2.   The type of ownership of the business, i.e. whether individual,
partnership, or corporation, etc.;
      3.   The names, complete residence addresses and residence telephone
numbers of all owners of the business; and if any such owner is a corporation,
of the principal officers and registered agent of such corporation;
      4.   A sketch showing the exact location of the proposed site for the
advertising bench in relation to property lines, building lines, street lines
and other facilities or improvements within fifty feet (50') of the proposed
location of said bench;
      5.   A statement as to the reason there is a need for the seating
services, provided by an advertising bench, at the proposed location for the
advertising bench;
      6.   Such other information as may be required by the village, from time
to time.
   E.   As the number of sites, at which advertising benches may be located,
may be limited by the provisions of this article, advertising bench permit
applications shall be processed in the order in which they are filed with the
department of quality control. In the event that two (2) or more applications
are received simultaneously, for the placement of an advertising bench at the
same location, the department of quality control shall break ties and determine
the order of filing as to each separate location, individually, by means of a
lottery or other fair and impartial method of random selection. All concerned
applicants shall be notified by mail of the date, time and place that the
department of quality control shall conduct said lottery or other fair and
impartial method of random selection.
   F.   The department of quality control shall either deny the application,
stating the reasons for such denial, or grant said permit subject to the
following terms:
      1.   The term "advertising bench" as used in this code shall mean any
seat located upon public property along any public street for the accommodation
of passersby or persons awaiting transportation and which contains thereon an
advertisement. The design of such bench shall be subject to approval by the
department of quality control. Detailed design plans shall be submitted with an
application for an advertising bench permit.
      2.   Advertising benches shall be placed at such locations applied for
and for which the applicant has shown, and the department of quality control
has determined, that an actual need for the seating services of said benches
exist. In addition, advertising benches shall only be placed at such locations
determined by the department of quality control not to cause an undue health or
safety hazard, interfere with the right of the public to the proper use of the
streets and thoroughfares, or cause a nuisance as proscribed by either 740
Illinois Compiled Statutes, or title 8, chapter 1 of this code. Provided
further, however, that no advertising bench shall be placed, installed, used or
maintained:
         a.   So as to reduce the clear, continuous combined sidewalk and/or
parkway width to less than five feet (5');
         b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of any fire hydrant or other emergency
facility;
         c.   Within twenty five feet (25') of any intersecting driveway, alley
or street;
         d.   Within ten feet (10') of any marked crosswalk;
         e.   At any location where the width of paved clear space in any
direction for the passageway of pedestrians is reduced to less than five feet
(5');
         f.   At any location where another advertising bench, for which a
valid permit has been obtained, is located, unless the applicant for the second
advertising bench permit can demonstrate to the department of quality control
an actual need for the placement of more than one bench at said location to
provide adequate seating facilities for the use of pedestrians. (Ord. 85-5-15)
3-7F-2: PERMIT FEE:
The permit fee shall be as set forth in section
3-1-1-7 of this title. (Ord. 03-20-81)
3-7F-3: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
The rental permit shall be granted upon the following conditions:
   A.   Within seven (7) days of the end of each permit year, the permittee
shall remove his advertising bench from the property of the village unless the
permittee has obtained another advertising bench rental permit for the
placement of the bench at its current location. In the event that the permittee
fails to remove said bench within the seven (7) day period, the village may
remove and store said bench and the permittee shall be responsible for the
village's costs in removing and storing said bench;
   B.   The permittee, upon the removal of an advertising bench, shall restore
the property of the village to the same condition as when the bench was
initially installed, ordinary wear and tear excepted;
   C.   The permittee shall maintain the bench in good working order and in a
safe and clean condition and keep the immediate area surrounding such bench
free from litter and debris;
   D.   The permittee shall save and hold the village harmless from any and all
liability for any reason whatsoever occasioned upon the bench and shall
furnish, at permittee's expense, such public liability insurance as will
protect permittee and the village from all claims for damage to property or
bodily injury, including death, which may arise from the operation under the
permit or in connection therewith and such policy shall name the village of Oak
Lawn as an additional insured, shall be in an amount not less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) combined single limit for any injury to persons
and/or damaged property, and shall provide that the insurance coverage shall
not be canceled or reduced by the insurance carrier without thirty (30) days'
prior written notice to the village. A certificate of such insurance shall be
provided to the village and maintained before and during the installation of
such benches;
   E.   The permittee shall, prior to placing any advertising bench on public
property, deposit with the village a removal and restoration bond issued by a
bonding company acceptable to the village in an amount sufficient to cover the
total cost of removing and storing each bench placed on public property
hereunder plus the cost to restore each site. Such bond is to provide that if
the permittee fails to remove and restore as required by subsections A and C of
this section, the bonding company shall pay the face amount of the bond to the
village for such removal, storing and restoration;
   F.   Rental permits shall be for a term of one year (May 1 through April 30)
and shall not be assignable;
   G.   Each bench shall contain the name of the owner of said bench along with
an emergency phone number for said owner; and
   H.   If at any time an advertising bench is found located on any public
sidewalk, right of way or public way within the village, without a valid
advertising bench rental permit for said location, the department of quality
control shall notify the owner thereof, in writing that said advertising bench
must be removed. In the event that said advertising bench is not removed within
seven (7) days of the date of the written notice to the owner thereof, the
village may remove and store said advertising bench and the owner thereof shall
be responsible for the village's costs in removing and storing said advertising
bench.
   I.   Such other terms and conditions deemed necessary and reasonable by the
department of quality control and/or the president and board of trustees.
(Ords. 85-5-15, 86-21-86)
3-7F-4: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Rental permits issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the
village manager after notice and hearing for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or any false statement contained in the
application for such a permit;
      2.   Violation of any provision of ordinance regulating such rental
permit; or
      3.   Violation of the terms of the rental permit granted.
Notice of hearing for such a revocation shall be given in writing stating the
grounds of the complaint together with the time and place of hearing and shall
be mailed, postage prepaid, to the permittee at the address given in the rental
permit application at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing.
   B.   A person aggrieved by a decision of the village manager in revoking a
rental permit shall have the right to appeal to the president and board of
trustees. Such appeal shall be taken by filing a notice of appeal including a
statement of the grounds for the appeal with the village clerk within ten (10)
days after notice of the decision by the village manager has been given. The
president and board of trustees shall set the time and place for hearing such
appeal and notice of such time and place shall be given in the same manner as
specified hereinabove. The president and board of trustees shall have the power
to reverse, affirm, or modify the decision of the village manager and any such
decision made by the president and board of trustees shall be final.
   C.   In the event that no appeal is taken from the village manager's
decision to revoke a rental permit, the owner of the bench for which the permit
has been revoked shall have ten (10) days from the final date for filing an
appeal in which to remove said bench from the village. In the event that an
appeal is filed and the board of trustees upholds the decision of the village
manager to revoke a rental permit, the owner of the bench for which the permit
has been revoked shall have ten (10) days from the date of the board of
trustees' decision in which to remove said bench from the village. In the event
that the owner of the bench, in either of the above two (2) situations, fails
to remove the bench as required, in the ten (10) day period, the village may
remove and store said bench and the owner of said bench shall be responsible
for the village's cost in removing and storing said bench. (Ord. 85-5-15)
3-7F-5: ADVERTISING BENCHES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
Any advertising bench located on private property shall, for purposes of this
code, be considered an advertising sign subject to the rules, regulations,
permit requirements and fees applicable to signs and advertising structures as
set forth in title 6, chapter 8 of this code. (Ord. 86-21-86)
3-7F-6: PENALTY:
In addition to the revocation of permit provisions of section
3-7F-4 of this article, any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this article shall be fined not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). (Ords. 86-21-86, 99-5-11)
3-7F-7: PERMIT RENEWAL, FIVE YEAR OPTION/PREFERENCE PERIOD:
   A.   Once a site has been initially determined appropriate for the location
of an advertising bench by the department of quality control, and an
advertising bench permit has been issued for said site, the holder of said
permit shall be entitled to renew said permit for each of the next four (4)
permit years (the useful life of an advertising bench having been determined to
be 5 years by the department of quality control), without said site being
subject to the lottery, as provided by subsection 3-7F-1E of this article, even
if another person, firm or corporation applies for said site, provided that
each year:
      1.   Said permit holder has complied with all the requirements set forth
in this article; and
      2.   Said permit holder has filed his, her or its application for said
site, as provided by section
3-7F-1 of this article, at the same time as, or before, all other applicants
for said site.
   B.   When an advertising bench permit for a particular site is issued to a
person, firm or corporation other than the person, firm or corporation who held
the permit for said site the previous permit year, said new permittee shall be
entitled to the five (5) year option/preference period for said site, provided
said new permittee complies with the requirements of subsection A of this
section. (Ord. 87-6-25)
ARTICLE G. HOME DAYCARE BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-7G-1: Application For A Permit
3-7G-2: Conditions Of Operation
3-7G-1: APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT:
Every home daycare business operated in the village shall require an annual
home daycare permit. The application for such permit and for any renewal
thereof shall state the name of the applicant and the place where the business
will be conducted and shall include a copy of the applicant's current state
license issued by the Illinois department of children and family services
("DCFS") pursuant to 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 10/1 et seq. The fee for
such permit, or renewal thereof, shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00). The
permit shall be valid only for the period May 1 through April 30. (Ord. 07-07-
26)
3-7G-2: CONDITIONS OF OPERATION:
   A.   The home daycare business shall be conducted in such a manner so that
it does not adversely affect the residential character of the residential
zoning district in which it is located or impinge upon the rights or privileges
of neighboring residential uses.
   B.   The home daycare business shall be operated by a member of the
immediate family residing within the dwelling unit used for the business.
   C.   There shall be no signs, advertising, display or activity that will
indicate from the exterior that the building is being used, in part, for any
purpose other than that of a dwelling.
   D.   Media advertising shall be limited to name and telephone number. The
address of the dwelling unit shall not be used in any advertising.
   E.   In lieu of a village business license, a valid license from DCFS shall
be on file with the village's business regulation officer at all times.
   F.   A state fire marshal's inspection shall be completed satisfactorily,
and a copy of the inspection shall be on file with the village business
regulation officer prior to issuance or renewal of a license.
   G.   All activities, including storage, shall be conducted completely within
the dwelling unit or accessory structures, and in no case shall there be
visible outside storage of goods, supplies or equipment with the exception of
playground equipment.
   H.   Should the licensee violate any of the provisions of this title, the
village may suspend or revoke the permit or may fine the permittee, all as
provided in chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 07-07-26)
ARTICLE H. OUTDOOR FOOD AND BEVERAGE SERVICE
SECTION:
3-7H-1: Application For A Permit
3-7H-2: Permit For Liquor Licensee
3-7H-3: Approval By Police
3-7H-4: Conditions Of Operation
3-7H-1: APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT:
Every outdoor restaurant or cafe operated in the village shall require an
annual outdoor food and beverage service permit, which shall be in addition to
other business or liquor licenses required by the village. No additional fee
shall be charged for such permit. The application for such permit and for any
renewal thereof shall state the name of the applicant, the place where the
outdoor service will be conducted and the number of seating spaces to be
provided and shall include a plan illustrating the area where such outdoor
service will take place. The permit shall be issued in conjunction with a
certificate issued for a restaurant in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 07-20-56)
3-7H-2: PERMIT FOR LIQUOR LICENSEE:
When liquor is served on the premises of a restaurant for which an outdoor food
and beverage service permit is sought, the applicant for such permit shall also
apply for a class N liquor license. (Ord. 07-20-56)
3-7H-3: APPROVAL BY POLICE:
Prior to issuance of an outdoor food and beverage service permit, the
application shall be reviewed by the police chief or his designee, and approval
of such permit shall not be granted unless the police chief determines that all
necessary design features (e.g., fencing and location) have been provided so
that such service will not be an impediment to the health and welfare of
customers or passers by. (Ord. 07-20-56)
3-7H-4: CONDITIONS OF OPERATION:
   A.   The outdoor food and beverage service shall be conducted in such a
manner so that it does not adversely affect the character of the zoning
district in which it is located or impinge upon the rights or privileges of
neighboring uses.
   B.   The outdoor food and beverage service area shall be enclosed by a
fence, not less than two feet (2') high, and no portion of the service area
shall be permitted to encroach on a public right of way or sidewalk.
   C.   Exit doors from the business premises to the outdoor food and beverage
service area shall remain unblocked and unimpeded at all times.
   D.   The seating capacity in the outdoor food and beverage service area
shall not be included in the calculation of the off street parking requirement
for the business premises.
   E.   Should the permittee violate any of the provisions of this title, the
village may suspend or revoke the permit or may fine the permittee, all as
provided in chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 07-20-56)
CHAPTER 8
PRECIOUS METALS DEALERS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: License Required
3-8-3: Application For License
3-8-4: License Fee
3-8-5: Bond
3-8-6: Display Of License
3-8-7: Records
3-8-8: Prohibited Acts
3-8-9: Report Of Rental By Owner
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words as used herein shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed:
ITINERANT PURCHASER OF PRECIOUS METALS: Any person, firm or corporation,
whether as owner, agent or employee, and whether a resident of the Village or
not, who engages in the business of purchasing precious metals as defined
herein in the Village, but who does not rent a store, loft, warehouse, office
space or show room by the year or holds less than a year's lease on any such
space.
LOCAL PRECIOUS METALS DEALER: Any person, firm or corporation who engages in
the business of purchasing precious metals as defined herein in the Village,
and who maintains a permanent place of business in the Village, renting space
therein by the year and holding at least a year's lease on such space.
PRECIOUS METALS: Includes, but is not limited to, gold, silver and platinum, in
such forms as coins, rings, bracelets, necklaces, jewelry of all types,
silverware, and any other item containing such precious metals with a retail
value in excess of twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 81-6-11)
3-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any purchaser of "precious metals" as defined in
Section
3-8-1 of this Chapter to engage in such business within the Village without
first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 81-6-11)
3-8-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applicants for license under this Chapter, whether a person, firm or
corporation, shall file a written sworn application signed by the applicant if
an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by the president if a
corporation, with the Village Clerk, showing:
   A.   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that it
will be carried on in the Village; the local address or addresses of such
person or persons while engaged in such business; the permanent address or
addresses of such person or persons; the capacity in which such person or
persons will act (that is, whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise); the name
and address of the person for whose account the business will be carried on, if
any; and if a corporation, under the laws of what state the same is
incorporated;
   B.   The place or places in the Village where it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that
said business shall be conducted;
   C.   The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant where applicant, within the six (6) months next preceding the date of
said application, conducted an itinerant business, stating the nature thereof
and giving the post office and street address of any building or office in
which such business was conducted;
   D.   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done
or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and, if required by the
Village Clerk, copies of all said advertising whether by handbills, circulars,
newspaper advertising, or otherwise, shall be attached to said application as
exhibits thereto. (Ord. 81-6-11)
3-8-4: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for such a license shall be as provided in Section
3-1-1-7 of this Municipal Code. Provided, however, that any local precious
metal dealer as defined herein who currently holds a valid regulatory
certificate (license) from the Village pursuant to Section
3-1-1 of this Code and who has paid the current regulatory fee is exempt from
payment of said license fee. (Ord. 81-6-11)
3-8-5: BOND:
Before any license, as provided by this Chapter, shall be issued for engaging
in an itinerant business as defined in Section
3-8-1 hereof, such applicant shall file with the Village Clerk a bond running
to the Village in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), executed by the
applicant, as principal, and two (2) sureties upon whom service of process may
be made in the State of Illinois, conditioned that the said applicant shall
comply fully with all the ordinances of the Village and the statutes of the
State of Illinois. (Ord. 81-6-11)
3-8-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The license issued under this Chapter shall be post- ed conspicuously in the
place where the itinerant business is to be conducted. (Ord. 81-6-11)
3-8-7: RECORDS:
Every licensee hereunder shall keep a book in which shall be legibly written in
ink at the time of each purchase, an accurate account and description in the
English language of the goods, articles, items or things purchased, the amount
of money paid for each, the time of the purchasing the same, and the name
and address of the person selling said goods, article, item or thing, and the
driver's license and social security number of the seller. In the event the
seller does not have a current driver's license or social security number, two
(2) other items of identification verifying the name, address and identity of
the seller must be used as recorded. No entry made in such book shall be
erased, obliterated or defaced.
The said book, as well as every article or thing purchased, shall be at all
reasonable times open to the inspection of any member of the Village's Police
Department. (Ords. 81-6-11, 81-14-24)
3-8-8: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Resale or Change of Items: No coins shall be resold or changed in any
manner for a period of twenty four (24) hours after purchase by any licensee.
No other goods, articles, items or things containing precious metals shall be
resold or changed in any manner for a period of seventy two (72) hours after
purchase by any licensee.
   B.   Purchase From Minors: No licensee shall purchase any goods, articles,
items or things containing precious metals from any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years. (Ords. 81-6-11, 81-14-24)
3-8-9: REPORT OF RENTAL BY OWNER:
The owner, proprietor or manager of any hotel, motel, store or building of any
type shall report, within eight (8) hours after renting, to the Chief of
Police, the name of any person who shall rent a room or other space for the
purchase or sale of precious metals, giving the location of the room or space
so rented. (Ord. 81-6-11; 1985 Code)
CHAPTER 9
TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definition
3-9-2: Application for License
3-9-3: Restrictions on License
3-9-4: Bond or Insurance Required
3-9-5: Tag or Sticker, Display and Transfer
3-9-6: State License Required
3-9-7: Vehicle Requirements
3-9-8: Operation of Taxicabs
3-9-9: Receipt for Payment of Fare
3-9-10: Prohibited Acts
3-9-1: DEFINITION:
The term "taxicab" as used in this Chapter shall mean and include any vehicle
used to carry passengers for hire but not operating on a fixed route. (1951
Code 12-6-2)
3-9-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for taxicab licenses shall state the name of the applicant, the
intended place of business and the number of cabs to be operated. If the
applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of the president and
secretary thereof shall be given 1 .
Whenever the number of taxicabs shall be increased during the license year, the
licensee shall notify the Village Clerk of such change. (1951 Code 12-6-1, 12-
6-4, 23-12-42)
 
Notes
  See Section
1 3-1-1-7 of this Municipal Code for license fee applicable to taxi offices or
  dispatch centers.
3-9-3: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE:
No such taxicab license shall be issued to or held by any person who is not a
person of good character or who has been convicted of a felony; nor shall such
license be issued to or held by any corporation if any officer thereof would be
ineligible for a license under the foregoing conditions. (1951 Code 12-6-3)
3-9-4: BOND OR INSURANCE REQUIRED:
No taxicab shall be operated unless it is covered by a bond or public liability
insurance policy as required by statute 1 . (1951 Code 12-6-7)
 
Notes
1 2. S.H.A. ch. 95 /2, §§8-101 et. seq.
3-9-5: TAG OR STICKER, DISPLAY AND TRANSFER:
The Village Clerk shall issue suitable tags or stickers for the number of cabs
covered by each license. Such tag or sticker shall be displayed in a prominent
place on each taxicab while it is in use and may be transferred to any taxicab
put into service to replace one withdrawn from service. (1951 Code 12-6-4)
3-9-6: STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
No taxicab shall be operated unless it bears a State license duly issued. The
licensee shall notify the Village Clerk of the motor number and State license
number of each cab operated and of the corresponding Municipal tag or sticker
number. (1951 Code 12-6-4, 12-6-5)
3-9-7: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Equipment and Inspections: No cab shall be operated unless it is
equipped with proper brakes, lights, tires, horn, muffler, rear vision mirror
and windshield wipers in good condition. It shall be the duty of the Chief of
Police to inspect every taxicab as often as may be necessary to see to the
enforcement of the provisions of this subsection.
   B.   Marking of Vehicles: Each taxicab while operated shall have on each
side, in letters readable from a distance of twenty feet (20'), the name of the
licensee operating it. If more than one cab is operated by a licensee each cab
shall be designated by a different number also to appear on each side of such
cab.
   C.   Meter: No taxicab shall be operated unless it is equipped with a meter
in good condition to record the amount to be charged on each trip, which amount
shall be shown in figures visible to the passenger. (1951 Code 12-6-5, 12-6-11)
3-9-8: OPERATION OF TAXICABS:
   A.   Obedience to Traffic Regulations: It shall be the duty of every driver
of a taxicab to obey all traffic regulations established by statute, this Code
or ordinance 1 .
   B.   Passengers to be Accepted: It shall be the duty of the driver of any
taxicab to accept as a passenger any person who seeks to so use the taxicab,
provided such person is not intoxicated and conducts himself in an orderly
manner. No person shall be admitted to a taxicab occupied by a passenger
without the consent of the passenger.
   C.   Direct Route Required: The driver of a taxicab shall take his passenger
to his destination by the most direct available route from the place where the
passenger enters the cab. (1951 Code 12-6-8, 12-6-10)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 11 of this Code.
3-9-9: RECEIPT FOR PAYMENT OF FARE:
Upon paying his fare each passenger shall be entitled, on request, to a receipt
showing the amount so paid and the name of the company or person operating the
cab, together with the number of the cab if such company or person operates
more than one taxicab in the Village. (1951 Code 12-6-11)
3-9-10: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Conduct of Drivers: It shall be unlawful for any driver of a taxicab
while on duty to drink any intoxicating liquor, or to use any profane or
obscene language, to shout or to call to prospective passengers, or to disturb
the peace in any way.
   B.   Permitting Unlawful Use of Cab: It shall be unlawful to knowingly
permit any taxicab to be used in the perpetration of an unlawful act.
   C.   Failure to Pay Fare: It shall be unlawful for a passenger to fail or
refuse to pay the lawful fare at the termination of a trip. (1951 Code 12-6-6,
12-6-10, 12-6-11)
CHAPTER 10
MOTELS AND HOTELS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: Application For License, Approval
3-10-3: Building And Premises Requirements
3-10-4: Sanitary Conditions
3-10-5: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-10-6: Inspections
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
HOTEL: Includes every building or structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where lodging, or lodging and food, or
apartments, suites, or other accommodations are offered for a consideration to
guests in which ten (10) or more rooms, apartments or suites, or other
accommodations are used for the lodging, or lodging and food, for such guests.
MOTEL: Any parking lot or garage for the accommodation of motor vehicles where
transient sleeping accommodations are afforded or provided on the same premises
for the public or for the occupants of such automobiles. Provided, that a hotel
which furnishes parking space or has a garage in connection with the hotel
shall not be construed as a motel.
TRANSIENT: The accommodations to any person or persons shall not be for more
than thirty (30) consecutive days. (1951 Code 12-10-1; Ords. 54, 76-36-76, 77-
1-1)
3-10-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, APPROVAL:
The application for a motel or hotel license shall state thereon the name and
address of the applicant, name and address of the owner or manager thereof,
location of the motel or hotel, and the maximum number of persons and vehicles
to be accommodated. This application shall be accompanied by plans of the motel
or hotel showing fireproof construction and the proposed or existing locations
of all buildings, toilets, bath and washbasin facilities, slop sinks, water
faucets, sewer connections, driveways and other improvements.
The application for a motel or hotel license shall be examined and approved by
the Zoning and Planning Commission and the board of trustees of this village.
(1951 Code 12-10-2; Ord. 54; 1985 Code; Ords. 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
3-10-3: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area, Number Of Units: The minimum area for any one motel or hotel unit
shall be three hundred (300) square feet; and no motel or hotel shall be
constructed with less than fifteen (15) units.
   B.   Parking Areas: The motel or hotel areas and driveways shall be surfaced
with asphaltic concrete and service walks shall be constructed of concrete. A
minimum of four hundred (400) square feet of parking space shall be provided
for each unit.
   C.   Fireproof Construction Near Parking Areas: No parking space shall be
provided for motor vehicles within ten feet (10') of any building or structure
used for housing accommodations in a motel or hotel unless the wall facing such
parking space is constructed of fireproof materials and unless windows in such
wall, if any, are equipped with reinforced fire resistant glass.
   D.   Lighting: Any area or premises of a motel or hotel open to use by the
public or by all persons staying in or being accommodated in the motel or hotel
shall be kept adequately lighted at nighttime; provided, that such lights must
be so shaded or otherwise regulated so as to prevent them from shining upon any
adjacent premises. (1951 Code 12-10-2, 12-10-3, 12-10-8; Ord. 54; 1985 Code)
3-10-4: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   No premises shall be operated as a motel or hotel unless each unit is
equipped with a closet, lavatory and tub or shower. All such sanitary
facilities shall be properly connected to a sanitary sewer system of the
municipality. If the premises are located on a street served not by a municipal
water system, the water shall be tested for purity by the county or state
health department every thirty (30) days.
   B.   All motel or hotel premises must be kept clean and sanitary at all
times, and all waste material must be removed therefrom at least once every
twenty four (24) hours. (1951 Code 12-10-6, 12-10-7; Ord. 54; 1985 Code)
3-10-5: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Illegal Acts: It shall be unlawful to permit any violation of any
ordinance or law on or in any motel or hotel.
   B.   Gambling, Immoral Acts: It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use
of any motel or hotel, or any portion thereof, for gambling, gaming devices or
any immoral purposes.
   C.   Trailers: It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any motel or
hotel for the accommodation of a house trailer.
   D.   Rates For Sleeping Accommodations: No hotel or motel licensed or
required to be licensed under this chapter shall: 1) rent any sleeping room by
the hour for any period of fewer than twelve (12) consecutive hours; or 2) rent
any sleeping room more than once within any consecutive twelve (12) hour period
measured from the commencement of one rental to the commencement of the next
rental; or 3) advertise an hourly rate or any other rate for a sleeping room
based on a rental period of fewer than twelve (12) consecutive hours. (1951
Code 12-10-7, 12-10-9; Ord. 54; 1985 Code; Ord. 08-13-35)
3-10-6: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Premises: All motel or hotel premises shall be operated under the
inspection and approval of the health and sanitation officer.
   B.   Parking Areas: The chief of police shall inspect or cause to be
inspected each parking area to see to the compliance with the provisions of
this chapter. (1951 Code 12-10-7; Ord. 54; 1985 Code)
CHAPTER 11
MACHINE SHOPS
SECTION:
3-11-1: Definition
3-11-2: Application For License
3-11-3: Health And Safety Conditions
3-11-4: Nighttime Operations
3-11-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this chapter, the term "machine shop" is hereby defined to
mean a workshop in which machines are made or parts thereof are repaired, or
where parts of machines or tools, implements, dies, gears, screws or other
articles are cut, filed, shaped, punched, stamped, planed, sawed or repaired by
means of a lathe, drill, punch, saw, planer or other machinery. (1951 Code 12-
4-2)
3-11-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for a license to conduct or operate a machine shop in the
village shall state the location of said shop, the name of the owner or
operator thereof, a general description of the character of the machinery in
such shop and the nature of the business to be carried on or work to be done
therein and the number of persons expected to be employed in such shop. (1951
Code 12-4-3)
3-11-3: HEALTH AND SAFETY CONDITIONS:
   A.   General: No building, structure or part thereof used for or in
connection with any machine shop shall be so used as to endanger the health or
property of the employees or of the public.
   B.   Maintenance And Cleanliness: The owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or
manager of any machine shop shall cause all floors and other surface around or
beneath any machine or workbench to be kept in good order and repair and shall
have suitable and convenient sanitary receptacles for receiving waste and
cloths used in and about the machine shop for the purpose of cleaning machines
or parts thereof or which are intended for any other necessary use.
   C.   Loud Noise Near Residences: It shall be unlawful to operate within two
hundred feet (200') of any residence, a machine shop wherein pneumatic hammers
or other apparatus are used which cause loud or unusual noises. (1951 Code 12-
4-6, 12-4-7)
3-11-4: NIGHTTIME OPERATIONS:
No machine shop shall be operated in the nighttime between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. in any block in which the
majority of the buildings on both sides of the street are used exclusively for
residential purposes or within one hundred feet (100') of such block. (1951
Code 12-4-5)
CHAPTER 12
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definitions
3-12-2: Permits Required; Exceptions
3-12-3: Alarm Users
3-12-4: Alarm Equipment Suppliers
3-12-5: Possession, Display and Surrender of Permits
3-12-6: License and Permit Fees
3-12-7: Monthly Fee, Reports and Records
3-12-8: Insurance Requirements
3-12-9: False Alarms
3-12-10: Service of Notices
3-12-11: Prohibitions
3-12-12: Automatic Protection Devices, Keying Operation
3-12-13: Operational Defects to be Remedied
3-12-14: Authority to Inspect Installations
3-12-15: Signaling Devices, Financial Institutions
3-12-16: Direct Connections to Police Department
3-12-17: Central Stations
3-12-18: Answering Services; Standards
3-12-19: Alarm Systems; Standards and Inspections
3-12-20: Inspection of Alarm Devices and Businesses
3-12-21: Statistical Data
3-12-22: Testing of Equipment
3-12-23: Notice of Disruption in Service
3-12-24: Liability of Village Limited
3-12-25: Administrative Rules
3-12-26: Penalties for Violations
3-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following terms have the definitions
ascribed to them:
ALARM EQUIPMENT SUPPLIER: Any person, firm or corporation that manufactures
alarm systems or sells alarm systems from its place of business and does not
sell, install, maintain, alter, repair, replace, service or respond to alarm
systems at the protected premise or premise to be protected.
ALARM SYSTEM: An assembly of equipment and devices (or a single device, such as
a solid state unit) arranged to signal the presence of a hazard requiring
urgent attention and to which police are expected to respond. In this Chapter,
the term "alarm system" shall include the terms, "automatic projection device",
"burglar alarm system" and "manual holdup alarm systems", as those terms are
hereinafter defined.
ALARM USER: Any person on whose premises an alarm system is maintained within
the Village of Oak Lawn except for alarm systems on motor vehicles. Also
included are those alarm systems which employ an audible signal emitting sounds
or a flashing light or beacon designed to alert or signal persons outside the
premises.
AUTOMATIC PROTECTION DEVICE: An electrically operated instrument composed of
sensory apparatus and related hardware which automatically sends over regular
telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise a prerecorded voice alarm
upon receipt of a stimulus from the sensory apparatus that has detected a
physical force or condition inherently characteristic of a fire or unauthorized
intrusion. Also included are devices which are stimulated by direct action by
the alarm user or his employees.
BURGLAR ALARM SYSTEM: An alarm system signaling entry or attempted entry into
the area protected by the system.
CENTRAL STATION: An office to which remote alarm and supervisory signaling
devices are connected, where operators supervise the circuits and where guards
are maintained continuously to investigate signals.
CENTRAL STATION EQUIPMENT: The signal receiving, recording or retransmitting
equipment installed in the central station.
CENTRAL STATION SYSTEM: A system in which the operation of electrical
protection circuits and devices are signaled automatically to, recorded in,
maintained and supervised from a central station having trained operators and
guards in attendance at all times.
DIRECT LINE: A telephone line leading directly into the communications center
of the Fire Department or the Police Department that is for use only to report
emergency messages and signals on a person-to-person basis.
FALSE ALARM: The activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
malfunction, improper installation or the improper operation or negligence of
the owner or lessee of an alarm system or of his employees or agents. Such
terminology does not include, for example, alarms caused by hurricanes,
tornadoes, earthquakes or other violent conditions, nor by outside agencies or
external forces not under the control of owner or lessee.
FIRE CHIEF: The Chief of the Fire Department of the Village of Oak Lawn or his
authorized representative.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: The Fire Department of the Village of Oak Lawn, Illinois.
INDICATOR: The instrumentation on a monitor panel at the receiving terminal of
a signal line which produces both visual and audible alarm signals when
activated by a signaling device in the same electrical circuit at an
identifiable location of origin.
KEY (TO A TELEPHONE LINE): To use a telephone line for transmitting a message
either by direct connection or by a mechanism not so connected that utilizes
the microphone of a standard telephone to do so.
LOCAL ALARM: A signaling system which, when activated, causes an audible and/or
visual signaling device to be activated in or on the premises within which the
system is installed.
MANUAL HOLDUP ALARM SYSTEM: An alarm system in which the signal transmission is
initiated by the direct action of the person attacked, an observer of the
attack, or by the alarm user or his employees.
OPERATOR TRUNKLINE: A telephone line provided by the telephone company that
leads to an exchange where calls made to "operator" are received by the
company's operators, who respond appropriately to the various types of calls in
accordance with the general instructions of the company.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, association or society, but
such term does not include the Village of Oak Lawn.
POLICE CHIEF: The Chief of the Police Department of the Village of Oak Lawn, or
his authorized representative.
POLICE DEPARTMENT: The Police Department of the Village of Oak Lawn, Illinois.
PRIMARY TRUNKLINE: A telephone line leading into the communications center of
the Fire Department or the Police Department that is for the purpose of
handling emergency calls on a person-to-person basis, and which line is
identified by a specific listing among the emergency numbers in the telephone
directory issued by the telephone company serving the Village of Oak Lawn.
PRIVATE ALARM CONTRACTOR: Any person who engages in a business that sells,
installs, maintains, alters, repairs, replaces, services, or responds to alarm
systems at a protected premises or premise to be protected on an emergency
basis and not as a full time security guard; but shall not include a person,
firm or corporation that only manufactures alarm systems or sells alarm systems
from its place of business and does not sell, install, maintain, alter, repair,
replace, service or respond to alarm systems at the protected premises or
premises to be protected, or an electrical contractor who repairs or services
alarm systems on an "emergency call in basis".
PRIVATE ALARM CONTRACTOR AGENCY: Any person, firm, association or corporation
which engages in the private alarm contractor business and which employs one or
more persons in conducting such business.
SIGNAL LINE: A line not connected to any standard telephone equipment which
leads into an indicator panel in the communications center of the police
department or such a panel in either a central station protective system or a
modified central station, and which is designed to transmit electrically an
alarm signal readily identifiable as to location or origin.
SIGNALING DEVICE: An electrically operated instrument composed of sensory
apparatus and related hardware that, upon detection of a physical force or
condition characteristic of an emergency, will excite a signal line in such a
way as to cause both visual and audible signals to be registered by indicators
on a monitor panel at the receiving terminal of that signal line in a central
location.
SPECIAL TRUNKLINE: A telephone line leading into the communications center of
the fire department or the police department that is for the primary purpose of
handling emergency messages which originate from automatic protection devices
and are transmitted directly or through an intermediary.
TELEPHONE COMPANY: The public utility that has a franchise from the village of
Oak Lawn authorizing it to furnish telephone service to subscribers in the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Oak Lawn, Cook County, Illinois. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-2: PERMITS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Alarm Business: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, manage,
conduct or carry on an alarm business within the village without complying with
the provisions of this chapter and without first obtaining a valid private
alarm contractor agency certificate from the state. A copy of said certificate
shall be filed with the chief of police.
   B.   Private Alarm Contractor: It shall be unlawful for any person to work
as a private alarm contractor within the village without complying with the
provisions of this chapter and without first obtaining a valid private alarm
contractor's license from the state. A copy of said license shall be filed with
the chief of police.
   C.   Alarm Equipment Supplier: It shall be unlawful for any person to own,
manage, conduct or carry on an alarm equipment supplier business within the
village without complying with the provisions of this chapter and without first
obtaining a valid alarm equipment supplier license.
   D.   Alarm User: It shall be unlawful for any person to own or possess an
alarm system without complying with the provisions of this chapter and without
obtaining a valid alarm user permit.
   E.   Exceptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable to:
1) audible alarms affixed to motor vehicles, 2) the village, its officers,
agents and employees, or 3) the fire alarms subject to the provisions of title
7, chapter 5 of this code. (Ords. 84-15-45, 09-10-24)
3-12-3: ALARM USERS:
   A.   Application For User Permit: Application for permits required under
this chapter shall be made to the chief of police on forms provided by the
police department. Each application for a permit shall be accompanied by the
correct fee, as defined in section
3-12-6 of this chapter.
      1.   Permit Required: Within ninety (90) days after the effective date of
this chapter, every alarm user shall obtain an alarm user permit for each alarm
system he operates within this village from the police chief. This subsection
does not require that private alarm contractor agencies or private alarm
contractors, that are licensed by the state, obtain a permit under this section
when they lease or provide services to alarm system users. If a private alarm
contractor or private alarm contractor agency, that is licensed by the state,
does, however, use an alarm system to protect its own premises, it shall obtain
a permit for such system as required in this section.
      2.   Application For Permit:
         a.   The alarm user applying for the permit required in subsection A1
of this section shall state on a permit application form to be prepared by the
police department and approved by the village attorney: his name, the address
of the residence or business or businesses in or upon which the alarm system
has been or will be installed, his telephone number, the type of alarm system
(local, direct connect, central station, etc.), the private alarm contractor or
private alarm contractor agency selling, installing, monitoring, inspecting,
responding to and/or maintaining the alarm system, including the address and
telephone number of said private alarm contractor agency or private alarm
contractor, and the name and telephone number of at least one other person (in
the case of a corporate alarm user applicant, at least 2 persons) who can be
reached at any time, day or night, and who is authorized to respond to an alarm
signal and who can open the premises in which the system is installed.
         b.   Any alarm user who installs a system ninety (90) days or more
after the effective date of this chapter must submit with the application a
certificate of a state licensed private alarm contractor or private alarm
contractor agency stating that in the opinion of such business the alarm system
complies with section
3-12-19 of this chapter. Such certificate shall satisfy the requirements of
subsection A4 of this section for the year in which the alarm permit is first
obtained.
      3.   Permit Fee: There shall be a twenty five dollar ($25.00) permit fee
yearly in relation to users of alarms, automatic protection devices and burglar
alarm systems other than solely "local alarms" as defined in section
3-12-1 of this chapter.
      4.   Inspections: Every alarm user licensed under this Section shall be
required to have its alarm system inspected at least once a year by a State
licensed private alarm contractor agency or private alarm contractor, and post
a certificate of such inspection on the premises where the alarm system is
maintained. The certificate shall state that, in the opinion of the private
alarm contractor agency or private alarm contractor:
         a.   The alarm system complies with the applicable provisions of
Section
3-12-19 of this Chapter if the system was installed ninety (90) days or more
after the effective date of this Chapter, or
         b.   The alarm system is safe and reliable if it was installed prior
to ninety (90) days after the effective date of this Chapter.
      5.   Temporary Waiving Of Requirements: An applicant for an alarm user
permit may file a request with the Police Chief, requesting that he temporarily
waive the requirements of subsection A2b and A4a of this Section in
circumstances in which the public's safety, health or welfare is involved.
      6.   The information contained in an alarm user permit application
required by this Section and other information received by the Police Chief
through correspondence or communications with an alarm user shall be securely
maintained and restricted to inspection only by the Police Chief or certain
officers or City employees specifically assigned the responsibility for
handling and processing alarm user permits, in the course of official duties.
If the Police Chief or any employee of the Village is found to have knowingly
or wilfully revealed the information contained in an alarm user permit
application or in correspondence or communications with an alarm user to any
other person for any purpose not related to this Chapter or official law
enforcement matters and without the express written consent of the alarm user
supplying such information, the Police Chief or the Village employee shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor as set forth in this Code.
      7.   Any alarm system user who operates an alarm system without first
obtaining a permit as required by this Section, or who, after having a permit
revoked, or suspended, and after exhausting his rights to hearing and appeal
fails to disconnect his alarm system, shall be in violation of this Chapter.
   B.   Issuance Of Permit: The Chief of Police shall issue a permit within
forty five (45) days of receipt of the completed application if, upon
investigation, there shall appear no reason to deny the application as provided
under subsection C herein.
   C.   Denial Of Application: An application for an alarm user permit shall be
denied if the applicant falsifies any information on the application.
   D.   Revocation Of Permit: An alarm user permit may be revoked by the Chief
of Police for any reason for which the granting of such permit might be
lawfully denied, or for a violation of any provision of this Chapter, or of any
rule or regulation made in implementation thereof by the Chief of Police. An
alarm user permit may be revoked when the alarm user or his agent:
      1.   Fails to respond to his activated alarm within a reasonable time
when requested to do so by the Police Department; or
      2.   His alarm system has signaled an excessive number of alarms.
   E.   Reporting Servicing Information: Each alarm user shall maintain a
current information card with the Police Department, containing his name,
address and telephone number as well as the name, address and telephone number
of a person or persons who can render service to the alarm at any hour of the
day or night. Each alarm user permittee shall immediately inform the Chief of
Police of any and all changes in the information on file with the Police
Department regarding such permit. (Ords. 84-15-45, 95-11-34)
3-12-4: ALARM EQUIPMENT SUPPLIERS:
   A.   Application For License: Each alarm equipment supplier, including those
selling protective devices in the Village for keying to a special trunkline or
an operator trunkline, shall apply to the Chief of Police for a license on a
form to be furnished him. Such application shall be filed within thirty (30)
days of the effective date hereof. Each application shall be signed by the
individual proprietor of such business or by a partner or authorized corporate
official, as appropriate for the type of business organization and shall
include the following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of alarm equipment supplier and
type of business organization (individual, partnership or corporation). If a
partnership, names and addresses of partners; if a corporation, the names and
addresses of the principal officers and the state where incorporated.
      2.   A description of, and operational specifications for the automatic
protection devices offered to the public, together with a statement that the
equipment does or does not comply with standards of the Underwriters'
Laboratories and/or the National Fire Protection Association.
      3.   A list of criminal convictions, if any, (other than for minor
traffic offenses) of the applicant, or a list of criminal convictions, if any
(other than for minor traffic offenses) of any of the partners, directors and
officers, if the applicant is other than in individual.
      4.   A statement that the applicant is willing to comply with other
reasonable rules and regulations as may be issued by the Chief of Police.
      5.   A statement by the applicant, recognizing that any license granted
to him will relate to the automatic protection device or devices described in
accordance with subsection A2 of this Section, and that the applicant, before
offering to the public any other such device or devices developed in the
future, will file with the Chief of Police a supplemental description like the
one required in subsection A2 of this Section. Only upon approval of the Chief
of Police of the new device or devices shall an existing license be deemed
amended to include authority to sell the new device or devices.
Each application for a license shall be accompanied by the correct fee, as
defined in Section
3-12-6 of this Chapter.
Any alarm equipment supplier who sells an alarm system without first obtaining
a license as required by this Section, or who, after having a license revoked,
or suspended, and after exhausting his rights to hearing and appeal continues
to sell alarm systems, shall be in violation of this Chapter.
   B.   License Proration And Refund:
      1.   An alarm equipment supplier wishing to do business in the Village
shall pay standard licensing fees required of other merchants in the community.
      2.   If the license is issued after the beginning of the calendar year,
the license fee shall be prorated on the basis of remaining months of the
calendar year, including the month when the license is issued.
      3.   No refunds of license fees shall be made.
   C.   Action On Business License Applications: The Police Chief shall cause a
report on the applicant to be prepared, based on the information contained in
the application together with such other relevant information as may be
obtained pertaining to the applicant and his business.
On the basis of this report, the Police Chief shall, within sixty (60) days
after the receipt of an application for an alarm equipment supplier license,
either approve or deny the issuance of a license. Upon making a decision he
shall:
      1.   In the case of approval, notify the applicant, in writing, of the
approval, and inform him that upon the presentation of the acceptance to the
Village Clerk, or his designated representative, the applicant will be issued a
license to operate.
      2.   In the case of denial, notify the applicant, in writing, of the
denial and of the basis for the denial, which may be nonconformance with any
part of this Chapter. If the basis for the denial can be corrected, the notice
shall so state, and shall explain how these corrections may be made and set a
reasonable time limit for making such corrections. The notice of denial shall
inform the applicant that he may appeal the denial and set forth the procedure
for appeal. The procedure for appeal shall be as follows:
         a.   Within ten (10) days after receipt of the notice of denial, the
applicant shall file a notice of appeal with the Village Manager addressed to
the Board of Trustees and stating the basis of the appeal.
         b.   Within ten (10) days after receipt of the notice of appeal, the
Village Manager or his designated representative shall arrange for a conference
with the applicant and the Police Chief to attempt to reach an agreement
concerning the appeal.
         c.   If the conference fails to settle the matter in a way acceptable
to the applicant, arrangements shall be made to have the appeal heard before
the Board of Trustees. Such hearing shall be held within twenty (20) days after
the conference. The Village Manager shall cause the applicant to be given
written notice of the hearing at least seven (7) days in advance of the date of
the hearing. Notice of such hearing shall also be posted as part of the Board
of Trustees' agenda for that meeting. The applicant may appear before the Board
of Trustees, and the applicant or his designated representative may make an
oral presentation of his appeal, or he may make the appeal through a written
statement, or he may do both. The Board of Trustees shall rule on the appeal
within seven (7) days after it is heard and such ruling shall be final.
   D.   Revocation Of License:
      1.   In addition to the penalties proscribed by law for violation of any
provision of this Chapter, the Village may, after ten (10) days' prior written
notice, cancel or revoke the license of an alarm equipment supplier on any of
the following grounds:
         a.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in any
application for such license.
         b.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
conduct of the business authorized by such license.
         c.   Violation of any provision of this Chapter.
      2.   No alarm equipment supplier license shall be revoked until a hearing
is held by the Police Chief. Written notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be served on the holder of the license at least ten (10) days
before the date set for the hearing. The notice shall set forth a summary of
the grounds advanced as the basis for the revocation of the license.
      3.   At the hearing before the Police Chief, the holder of the license,
or his authorized representative shall be given an opportunity to confront and
examine any adverse witness, and to present evidence on his own behalf. After
the hearing, the Police Chief shall either dismiss the complaint or shall
forward the complaint to the Village Manager with his recommendation that the
license be revoked. Within ten (10) days after receiving such recommendation,
the Village Manager shall approve or disapprove the recommendation. In either
event, the Village Manager shall cause the holder of the license to be given
notice in writing of his decision within ten (10) days after making it.
      4.   Any person whose license is revoked pursuant to subsection D3 of
this Section shall have the right, within ten (10) days after receiving notice
in writing of the revocation from the Village Manager, of filing a written
appeal with the Board of Trustees. Such appeal shall set forth in detail the
specific ground or grounds on which it is based. The Board of Trustees shall
hold a hearing on the appeal within thirty (30) days after its receipt by the
Village and shall cause the appellant to be given at least ten (10) days'
written notice of such hearing. At the hearing, the appellant or his authorized
representative shall have the right to present a written or oral argument, or
both, in support of his appeal. The determination of the Board of Trustees on
the appeal shall be final.
      5.   After notice of revocation has been given, an alarm business
licensee may continue to operate his business until all of his rights of appeal
under this Chapter have been exhausted. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-5: POSSESSION, DISPLAY AND SURRENDER OF PERMITS:
The private alarm contractor agency certificate issued by the State must be
conspicuously displayed at the principal place of business, and every private
alarm contractor license issued by the State must be carried by the private
alarm contractor while he is working, and shall be displayed upon request by
any police officer. An alarm equipment supplier license issued by the Village
must be conspicuously displayed at the principal place of business. Any alarm
user permit or alarm equipment supplier license shall be surrendered to the
Chief of Police upon suspension or revocation. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-6: LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Alarm user permit fee, as per subsection
3-12-3A3 of this Chapter, yearly      $25.00
   B.   Alarm equipment supplier, yearly   $50.00
   C.   False Alarms 1 : For each false alarm in excess of three (3) in any
calendar year from any alarm system, the alarm user shall be charged a false
alarm service charge as follows:
 
1 – 3 alarms    No charge
4 – 6 alarms    $ 75.00 each
7 – 9 alarms    100.00 each
10 – 12 alarms  150.00 each
13 or more alarms 200.00 each
 
(Ords. 89-21-71, 95-11-34)
 
Notes
1 1. Service charges established by Ord. 95-11-34 are effective August 1, 1995.
3-12-7: MONTHLY FEE, REPORTS AND RECORDS 1 :
   A.   Monthly Fee: Every "private alarm contractor agency" or "private alarm
contractor", as defined in Section
3-12-1 of this Chapter, and security system company which maintains a direct
connection to the communication centers of the Village's Fire and/or Police
Departments by means of a "direct line", "signal line", or "special trunkline",
as defined in Section
3-12-1 of this Chapter, or by any means whatsoever for the benefit and use of
its customers, shall pay to the Village a monthly fee of ten dollars ($10.00)
per subscriber, user or lessee, to cover the Village's administrative and
monitoring costs relative to such connection(s). This ten dollar ($10.00)
monthly fee per subscriber, user or lessee shall be due and payable on the
tenth day of each and every month.
   B.   List Of Subscribers: On or before January 30 of each year, each private
alarm contractor agency, private alarm contractor, or security system company
required to make such monthly payments hereunder shall deliver to the Chief of
Police of the Village a statement sworn to by an officer or owner of any such
private alarm contractor agency or security system company, or by the
individual private alarm contractor, showing it or his total number of
subscribers, users or lessees for the preceding year.
   C.   Records Required: Each such private alarm contractor agency, private
alarm contractor or security system company shall keep and preserve, at all
times while conducting business in the Village, full, complete and true records
of all of its subscribers, users or lessees and shall permit the Chief of
Police or the Chief's representative to examine the records at any and all
reasonable times, and shall, upon the Chief's request, explain the method of
keeping the records.
   D.   Failure To Make Payment Or Report: If any such private alarm contractor
agency, private alarm contractor or security system company shall fail to
promptly make any of the required monthly payments to the Village or omit to
prepare and deliver promptly any yearly statement required hereunder, the
Village may, upon ten (10) days' written notice to both the alarm user and the
private alarm contractor agency, private alarm contractor or security system
company who has failed to make said monthly payments or prepare and deliver
said yearly statements, disconnect said direct connection to the communication
centers of the Village's Fire and/or Police Departments.
   E.   Exemption From Monthly Fees And Record Keeping:
      1.   Any person who is required by any Village code or ordinance or by
any State or Federal law or regulation to maintain an alarm or security system
with a connection to a central station owned and operated by the Village, is
exempt from payment of the ten dollar ($10.00) monthly fee and record keeping
requirements of this Section.
      2.   In addition, all units of local government, including school
districts, and all private individual homeowners who are required to pay a
yearly alarm user fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) in accordance with
subsection 3-12-6A of this Chapter, are exempt from the ten dollar ($10.00)
monthly fee and record keeping requirements of this Section. (Ords. 84-15-45,
89-21-71, 96-05-21, 98-23-103)
 
Notes
1 1. Fees established by Ord. 98-23-103 are effective January 1, 1999.
3-12-8: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Each private alarm contractor agency, private alarm contractor or security
system company which maintains a direct connection to and/or equipment at the
communication centers of the Village's Fire and/or Police Department shall
immediately take out and keep in full force at all times while maintaining such
direct connection and/or equipment public liability insurance, including errors
and omissions for equipment malfunction, in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) with an insurance company acceptable to the Village Manager.
All such policies of insurance shall name the Village as an additional insured.
Each such private alarm contractor agency, private alarm contractor or security
system company must furnish the Village with a copy of the insurance policy
required hereunder or with a certificate of insurance by the carrier of said
insurance showing that it is at all times kept in force.
Such insurance policy must contain a provision that it may not be cancelled
without at least fifteen (15) days' prior written notice to the Village. (Ord.
84-15-45)
3-12-9: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   More than three (3) false alarms in a calendar year from any alarm
system for which an alarm user permit has been obtained may constitute grounds
for revocation of such permit, subject to the provisions of this Section.
   B.   After the Police Department has recorded three (3) false alarms within
a calendar year from any alarm user permit holder, it shall notify the permit
holder and the private alarm contractor or private alarm contractor agency
providing service or inspection to the permit holder in writing of such fact
and require that the permit holder submit a report to the Police Chief within
fifteen (15) days after receipt of such notice, describing efforts to discover
and eliminate the cause or causes of the false alarms. If, however, the alarm
user, by reason of absence from the Village or any other reasonable basis,
requests an extension of time to file the report, the Police Chief shall extend
the fifteen (15) day period. If the permit holder fails to submit such a report
within fifteen (15) days or within any such extended period, the Police Chief
may revoke the user's permit and under such circumstances the user shall not be
entitled to a hearing or appeal under this Section.
   C.   If the alarm user submits a report as required by subsection B of this
Section but the Police Chief determines that the report is unsatisfactory or
that the alarm user has failed to show by the report that he has taken or will
take reasonable steps to eliminate or reduce false alarms, then the Police
Chief may issue written notice of his intent to revoke or suspend the alarm
user's permit.
   D.   If after submission of a report required by subsection B of this
Section which is satisfactory to the Police Chief, the alarm system of the
permit holder incurs one or more false alarms during the same calendar year,
the Police Chief may issue written notice of his intention to revoke or suspend
the alarm user's permit.
   E.   Upon receipt of a notice of intent to revoke or suspend an alarm user's
permit pursuant to subsections C and D of this Section, the alarm permit holder
may, within ten (10) days of such receipt, submit a written request for a
hearing before the Police Chief, setting forth the reasons that his permit
should not be revoked or suspended.
   F.   Written notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be served on
the holder of the permit by the Police Chief at least ten (10) days prior to
the date set for the hearing.
   G.   At the hearing before the Police Chief, the holder of the permit, or
his authorized representative, shall have the right to confront and examine
witnesses and to present evidence on his own behalf. After the hearing, the
Police Chief may either issue an order of revocation, withdraw the notice of
revocation or suspend the permit until such time that he is satisfied that the
cause or causes of the false alarms have been eliminated.
   H.   Any person whose permit has been revoked or suspended pursuant to this
Section shall have the right, within ten (10) days after receiving notice of
revocation from the Police Chief, to file a written appeal by certified mail,
return receipt requested, or hand delivery with the Board of Trustees, and no
alarm user shall be required to discontinue use of his alarm system prior to
the expiration of such ten (10) day period. Such appeal shall set forth the
specific ground or grounds on which it is based. The Board of Trustees shall
hold a hearing on the appeal within thirty (30) days after its receipt by the
Village and shall cause the appellant to be given at least ten (10) days'
written notice of such hearing. At the hearing, the appellant or his designated
representative, shall have the right to present written or oral argument, or
both, in support of his appeal. The Board of Trustees shall issue its decision
within ten (10) days after the hearing.
   I.   If a permit holder files an appeal pursuant to subsection H of this
Section, he shall not be required to discontinue the alarm system until a final
decision is made on his appeal.
   J.   An alarm user whose permit has been revoked is not precluded under this
Section from applying for a new permit. The Police Chief, however, is not
required to issue a new permit unless he is satisfied that the alarm user's
system has been properly serviced and its deficiencies corrected. The Police
Chief may impose reasonable restrictions and conditions upon issuing a new
permit to an alarm user with respect to the particular system for which the
permit was revoked. (Ords. 84-15-45, 95-11-34)
3-12-10: SERVICE OF NOTICES:
When a person or the Police Chief, Village Manager, or Board of Trustees has
the right or is required to give notice pursuant to this Chapter, delivery of
said notice, unless specifically stated to be allowable by telephone, shall be
made by certified mail, return receipt requested, or, in lieu thereof, made by
hand by any person eighteen (18) years of age or older. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-11: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to activate any alarm system for the
purpose of summoning police, except in the event of what is reasonably believed
to be an unlawful act and/or an unauthorized entry on premises. Whenever an
alarm system has been designed and commonly understood to alert others of the
commission of a particular crime, it shall be unlawful for anyone to activate
such alarm system for the purpose of summoning police except in the event of
what is reasonably believed to be such particular crime.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to install or use an alarm system which, upon
activation, emits a sound similar to sirens in use on emergency vehicles or for
civil defense purposes.
   C.   No local (audible) alarm may be installed, maintained or used within
the limits of Oak Lawn unless it shall be controlled by an automatic timing
device which will shut off the audible device after a period not to exceed
fifteen (15) minutes. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-12: AUTOMATIC PROTECTION DEVICES, KEYING OPERATION:
   A.   Information as to Keying Operations: Each private alarm contractor
agency or private alarm contractor engaged on the effective date hereof in
selling or leasing, and/or installing automatic protection devices in the
Village for keying to a special trunkline or an operator trunkline, and each
alarm equipment supplier who sells automatic protection devices in the Village
for keying to a special trunkline or an operator trunkline, shall provide the
following information, in writing, to the Chief of Police:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of private alarm contractor
agency, private alarm contractor, or alarm equipment supplier and type of
business organization (individual, partnership or corporation). If a
partnership, names and addresses of the partners; if a corporation, the names
and addresses of the principal officers and the state where incorporated.
      2.   A description of, and operational specifications for the automatic
protection device offered to the public, together with a statement that the
equipment does, or does not, comply with standards of the Underwriters'
Laboratories and/or the National Fire Protection Association.
      3.   If the device or devices operate at voltage exceeding thirty (30)
volts between conductors, then a statement that any installation in the Village
will be made by a registered electrician, and inspection and approval of the
Village Electrical Inspector.
      4.   A list of names and addresses of persons for whom installations in
the Village have been made by the applicant prior to the effective date hereof.
      5.   A list of criminal convictions, if any (other than for minor traffic
offenses) of the applicant, or a list of criminal convictions, if any (other
than for minor traffic offenses) of the partners, directors, and officers, if
the applicant is other than an individual.
      6.   A statement of the type and availability of service for automatic
protective devices that the applicant proposes to offer the public.
      7.   A statement that the applicant is willing to comply with other
reasonable rules and regulations about details of installation and operation of
such devices, as may be issued by the Chief of Police.
   B.   Restrictions on Keying:
      1.   No automatic protection device that is in stalled after the
effective date hereof by any person on premises of any kind in the Village
shall be keyed to a primary trunkline.
      2.   After the effective date hereof, any private alarm contractor agency
or private alarm contractor who installs automatic protective devices in the
Village for the purpose of sending prerecorded emergency messages directly to
the Police Department shall first obtain necessary instruction, including a
designated telephone number, from the Chief of Police with the type of message
in order to key such device to a special trunkline into that Department.
      3.   Within ninety (90) days after the effective date hereof, all
automatic protection devices in the Village that were keyed on that date to a
primary trunkline shall be disconnected therefrom. The owner or lessee of any
such device shall be responsible for the disconnecting of it.
      4.   An owner or lessee of an automatic protection device who has it
disconnected as required by subsection B3 of this Section, may authorize a
private alarm contractor agency or private alarm contractor to key the
automatic protection device to a special trunkline into the Police Department,
provided that the device meets operational requirements, as set forth in this
Chapter, and written approval is obtained from the Chief of Police.
      5.   After the effective date hereof, no one except a private alarm
contractor agency or private alarm contractor shall install any automatic
protective device in the Village and/or key the same to a special trunkline.
   C.   Current List of Installations Required:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof, every
private alarm contractor or private alarm contractor agency who has keyed any
automatic protection devices in the Village to a special or operator trunkline
shall furnish the Chief of Police with a current list of such installations,
showing the following:
         a.   Name, residence address and telephone number of owner or lessee.
         b.   Address of place where device is installed and telephone number
at that location.
         c.   Name and telephone number of any other person at a different
location who is authorized to respond to an emergency and open the place where
the device is installed.
Within ten (10) days after the end of each quarter following the last month
included in the initial list, every private alarm contractor or private alarm
contractor agency shall furnish the Chief of Police with a supplemental list of
any such additional installations that he has keyed to a special or operator
trunkline, along with any corrections or deletions.
      2.   A private alarm contractor or private alarm contractor agency who
enters business after the effective date hereof and keys an automatic
protection device in the Village to a special or operator trunkline shall, by
the tenth of the second month following the month in which the first
installation is made, furnish the Chief of Police with a list of installations,
as specified in subsection C1 above. Within ten (10) days after the end of each
quarter following the last month included in the initial list, he shall
likewise furnish the Chief of Police with a supplemental list of any such
additional installations, along with any corrections or deletions.
      3.   The information required in subsections C1 and C2 above shall be
restricted to use only by the Chief of Police and the departments concerned.
   D.   Application of Operational Requirements: The operational requirements
set forth herein apply to any automatic protection device that is keyed to a
special or operator trunkline, either through a direct connection to a line of
a telephone or without such a direct connection, but by a mechanism that
utilizes the microphone of a telephone for transmitting messages.
   E.   Operational Requirements: Automatic protective devices installed on
premises of any kind in the Village that are keyed to a special or operator
trunkline shall meet minimum operational requirements, as determined by the
Chief of Police as follows:
      1.   The content of the type of recorded message to be transmitted by
such device must be intelligible and in a format approved by the Chief of
Police concerned as appropriate for the nature of the alarm.
      2.   No recorded message shall be delivered to the Police Department more
than three (3) times as the result of a single stimulus of the sensory
mechanism.
      3.   The length of time for transmitting the recorded message must not
exceed fifteen (15) seconds.
      4.   The time gap between delivery of each recorded message must be in
the range from ten (10) to twelve (12) seconds.
      5.   Such device must be capable of transmitting an alarm message to two
(2) or more recipients, so that upon installation, any message will be sent not
only on a special or operator trunkline but also on the line of an authorized
person having a key to the premises who is available to respond to an
emergency.
      6.   The sensory mechanism used in connection with such devices must be
adjusted to suppress false indications of fire or intrusion, so that the
devices will not be actuated by impulses due to transient pressure changes in
water pipes, short flashes of light, wind noises such as a rattling or
vibrating of doors or windows, vehicular noise adjacent to the installation or
other forces unrelated to genuine alarms.
      7.   All components comprising such a device must be maintained by the
owner or lessee in good repair to assure reliability of operation.
   F.   Instructions on Operation:
      1.   Each alarm equipment supplier, private alarm contractor or private
alarm contractor agency that sells or leases to a person an automatic
protection device which is installed on such person's premises in the Village
after the effective date hereof, and which is keyed to a special or operator
trunkline, shall furnish that person with instructions as to the way the device
operates, along with a maintenance manual and a correct circuit diagram
pertaining to such device.
      2.   Each alarm equipment supplier, private alarm contractor or private
alarm contractor agency, as referred to in subsection F1 above, shall also
furnish the Chief of Police with a copy of the instructions as to the way the
device operates, along with a maintenance manual and a correct circuit diagram.
If the Chief of Police finds such to be incomplete, unclear, or otherwise
inadequate, he may require the alarm equipment supplier, private alarm
contractor or private alarm contractor agency to have the same revised to meet
the Chief of Police's approval and then promptly distributed to persons for
whom installations of such devices have already been made as well as to persons
for whom installations are henceforth made.
   G.   Repair Service:
      1.   Each private alarm contractor or private alarm contractor agency
that sells or leases to a person an automatic protection device which is
installed on such person's premises in the Village after the effective date
hereof, and which is keyed to a special or operator trunkline, must offer
service, directly or through an agent, on a twenty four (24) hour basis, seven
(7) days a week, to repair such device, so as to correct any malfunction of
same that may occur.
      2.   At the time of installation, each private alarm contractor or
private alarm contractor agency shall furnish to the person for whom an
automatic protection device has been installed, written information as to how
service can be obtained at any time, including the telephone number to call for
service; and such person shall be responsible for having the device repaired as
quickly as possible after he learns, either from his own sources or from
notification by the Chief of Police or any member of the Fire Department, that
the device is not working properly. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-13: OPERATIONAL DEFECTS TO BE REMEDIED:
When messages evidencing failure to comply with the operational requirements
set forth in subsection 3-12-12E are received by the Police Department, and the
Chief of Police concludes that the automatic protection device sending such
messages should be disconnected in order to relieve the Police Department of
the burden of responding to false alarms, he is authorized to demand that the
owner or lessee of such device, or his representative at the place where it is
installed, disconnect such device until it is made to comply with said
operation requirements. If disconnection of the defective automatic protection
device is not accomplished promptly by such demand and the Chief of Police
determines that the malfunctioning device is repeatedly sending false alarms in
succession without an intermittent valid alarm, he may then take whatever steps
are necessary to disconnect the defective automatic protective device. (Ord.
84-15-45)
3-12-14: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT INSTALLATIONS:
For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Chapter, the Chief of the
Fire Department and the Chief of the Police Department shall each have the
authority at reasonable times and upon oral notice, to enter upon any premises
within the Village to inspect the installation and operation of an automatic
protection device or signaling device, the purpose of which is to report an
emergency to the Police Department, either directly or through an intermediary.
(Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-15: SIGNALING DEVICES, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS:
Any financial institution that is required by regulations of Federal
supervisory agencies issued pursuant to the Bank Protection Act of 1968 to have
an appropriate device for notifying the Police Department that a burglary or
robbery has occurred or is in progress, may arrange to have the particular
signaling device installed so as to operate pursuant to approval by the Chief
of Police. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-16: DIRECT CONNECTIONS TO POLICE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Upon the favorable recommendation of the Police Chief and the approval
of the Board of Trustees, alarms from business premises and financial
institutions may be terminated in the Police Department.
   B.   The Police Chief shall have the authority to request bids from private
alarm contractor agencies or private alarm contractors licensed by the State in
accordance with the normal practice in the community to furnish when possible,
at no cost to the Village, a standard annunciator panel. Such services shall be
set forth in the form of a written contract between the private alarm
contractor agency or private alarm contractor and each subscriber. This
subsection, however, relates solely to annunciator panels, connections to
annunciator panels by subscribers, and fees and charges related to the
installation and maintenance of such panels. Any subscriber or alarm user who
obtains authority from the Police Chief and Board of Trustees to terminate its
alarm system in the Police Department may contract with any State licensed
private alarm contractor or private alarm contractor agency of his choice for
the sale, installation, maintenance, and/or servicing of the alarm system to be
installed on its premises.
   C.   The alarm subscriber approved for a direct connection to the Police
Department or the private alarm contractor or private alarm contractor agency
contracting for servicing the subscriber's alarm system shall be responsible
for obtaining the leased telephone line between subscriber's premises and the
alarm receiving equipment at the Police Department and for furnishing the
appropriate interface equipment, if required, in order to provide an input
signal which is compatible with the receiving equipment used to operate the
standard annunciator panel.
   D.   The provisions of this Chapter contained in sections concerning alarm
user permits and false alarms shall apply to all subscribers or persons having
direct connect systems, except Municipal, County and State agencies exempted by
the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-17: CENTRAL STATIONS:
   A.   Standards: In addition to any other requirements imposed by this
Chapter, a private alarm contractor agency or private alarm contractor shall
not operate a central station unless the Police Chief finds that the central
station, if operated, will meet the following minimum requirements:
      1.   Compliance with the most recent "Central Station Burglar Alarm Units
Systems" (UL 611) issued by Underwriters' Laboratories or American National
Standards Institute (ANSI SE 2.2). Such standards are hereby adopted and made a
part of this Chapter, and a copy of such standards shall be kept on file at the
Police Department and be available for public inspection. The service provided
may correspond to any of the several grades of service listed in the standards,
but the owner, private alarm contractor agency, private alarm contractor or
other person in responsible control of the premises wherein such alarm system
is located must be present at such premises as soon as is reasonably possible
after being requested to do so by a representative of the Police Department. A
central station may also be a modified central station or telephone answering
service.
      2.   If a central station is currently registered with Underwriters'
Laboratories as a "UL listed central station" or if it is listed as such in
Underwriters' Laboratories' publication, "The Quarterly Supplement", such
registration or listing shall be sufficient evidence of compliance with this
Section.
   B.   Modified Central Stations; Standards: In addition to any other
requirements imposed by this Chapter, a private alarm contractor agency or
private alarm contractor shall not operate a modified central station unless
the Police Chief finds that the modified central station, if operated, will
meet the following minimum standards:
      1.   The premises from which the services are performed must meet any
applicable fire regulations.
      2.   The premises from which the services are performed must be secured
in a manner approved by the Police Chief to prevent entry by unauthorized
persons.
      3.   A large enough number of operators must be on duty at all times to
assure that all emergency messages received will be relayed immediately to the
Police Department over a special trunkline.
      4.   As soon as possible after notifying the Police Department, the
operator concerned shall notify the subscribers involved of such action and the
nature of the emergency message received.
      5.   The modified central station shall certify that all equipment
supervised by the modified central station shall be tested at least once a
year. Where a test result is unsatisfactory, the cause thereof shall be
corrected within twenty four (24) hours, unless circumstances exist that make
such corrections impossible within such time, in which event the cause shall be
corrected within a reasonable time. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-18: ANSWERING SERVICES; STANDARDS:
In addition to any other requirements imposed by this Chapter, a private alarm
contractor agency or private alarm contractor shall not operate an answering
service unless the Police Chief finds that the answering service, if operated,
will meet the following minimum standards:
   A.   The premises from which the services are performed must meet any
applicable fire regulations.
   B.   The premises from which the services are performed must be secured in a
manner approved by the Police Chief to prevent entry by unauthorized persons.
   C.   A large enough number of operators must be on duty at all times to
insure that all emergency messages received will be relayed immediately to the
Police Department over a special trunkline.
   D.   Emergency messages from automatic alarm devices shall be given priority
over all other messages received by the answering services except that fire
alarm signals may have equal priority.
   E.   All operators shall be trained to handle emergency messages.
   F.   As soon as possible after notifying the Police Department, the operator
concerned shall notify the subscriber involved of such action and the nature of
the emergency message received.
   G.   All subscribers of an answering service shall be required by the
service to cooperate in a test of its alarm devices at least once a year to
determine if the device is working properly. The answering service shall
certify that the test results shall be reported promptly, in writing, to the
subscriber and the Police Department. Until the device in question is again
working properly, the Police Department may require that its use be
discontinued. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-19: ALARM SYSTEMS; STANDARDS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Within six (6) months after the effective date of this Chapter, all
alarm systems installed in commercial or public buildings shall utilize
equipment and methods of installation substantially equivalent to or exceeding
the most recent following minimum applicable UL or ANSI standards; UL 609 (ANSI
SE 2.1) "Local Burglar Alarm Units and Systems".
   B.   Within six (6) months after the effective date of this Chapter, all
alarm systems installed in residences shall utilize equipment which shall be
substantially equivalent to or exceed the most recent minimum applicable UL
Standard 1023 (ANSI SE 2.4) "Household Burglar Alarm Systems Units", and such
equipment shall be installed in a safe, reliable and workmanlike manner.
   C.   The equipment or hardware used and/or the manner of installation of the
alarm system may correspond to any of the several levels of protection or
grades of service listed in the applicable standards; provided, however, that
alarm system users shall not be required to provide protection for all of the
areas or openings which may be required to be protected by the applicable
standards.
   D.   The standards referred to in this Section are hereby adopted as part of
this Chapter subject to the modification and qualifications set forth herein
and a copy of such standards shall be kept on file at the Police Department and
be available for public inspection.
   E.   In those instances where UL and/or ANSI have not established standards
for categories of equipment or where new equipment is undergoing field testing,
the Police Chief may require that the alarm system be inspected at the expense
of the alarm user by a professional electrical engineer who shall certify
whether the alarm system appears to be safe and reliable.
   F.   Alarm systems which input into an automatic alarm device are subject to
the provisions of this Section.
   G.   Tape dialer alarm systems are specifically prohibited within the
Village. By January 1, 1985, all tape dialer alarm systems within the Village
shall be disconnected. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-20: INSPECTION OF ALARM DEVICES AND BUSINESSES:
   A.   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Chapter, the Police
Chief shall have the authority, at reasonable times and upon reasonable oral
notice, to enter any premises in the Village in or upon which alarm systems or
private alarm contractor agencies or private alarm contractors subject to this
Chapter are located to inspect the installation and/or operation of such alarm
systems or private alarm contractor agencies or private alarm contractors on
official police business.
   B.   If such inspection reveals any violations of the provisions of this
Chapter, a written report detailing such violations shall be promptly sent to
the Village Manager and to the owner, lessee, or other person responsible for
the alarm system or private alarm contractor agency or private alarm contractor
in violation of this Chapter. Such report shall require the correction within
thirty (30) days after receipt of the notice of the violation discovered and
shall state that a failure to comply may result in the revocation of the alarm
user's permit in accordance with provisions of this Chapter relating to
revocation of licenses and permits. The alarm user shall be granted a
reasonable extension of time to correct such violation upon good cause shown.
   C.   It shall be a misdemeanor under this Code for the Police Chief, Village
Manager, or any Village employee to knowingly and wilfully reveal any business
information obtained during said inspection other than for official police
business or for the administration and enforcement of this Chapter. (Ord. 84-
15-45)
3-12-21: STATISTICAL DATA:
In addition to any other information that may be required to be supplied by the
provisions of this Chapter, the Police Chief may require a private alarm
contractor agency or private alarm contractor to furnish him with certain
statistical data which may be reasonably available relative to specified
periods of operation after the effective date of this Chapter. Any operational
data so furnished shall be for use only by the Village Manager, Police Chief
and Police Department and its use shall be subject to the sanctions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-22: TESTING OF EQUIPMENT:
No alarm system designed to transmit emergency messages directly to the Police
Department shall be tested or demonstrated without first obtaining permission
from the Police Chief. Permission is not required to test or demonstrate alarm
devices not transmitting emergency messages directly to the Police Department
unless the messages are to be relayed to the Police Department. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-23: NOTICE OF DISRUPTION IN SERVICE:
When a private alarm contractor agency's or private alarm contractor's service
to its subscribers is disrupted for any reason by the private alarm contractor
agency or the private alarm contractor, or the private alarm contractor agency
or private alarm contractor becomes aware of such disruption, it shall promptly
notify its subscriber by telephone that protection is no longer being provided.
If, however, the private alarm contractor agency or private alarm contractor
has written instructions from its subscriber not to make such notification by
telephone during certain hours, the private alarm contractor agency or private
alarm contractor may comply with such instructions. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-24: LIABILITY OF VILLAGE LIMITED:
The Village shall take every reasonable precaution to assure that alarm signals
and prerecorded alarm messages received by the Village are given appropriate
attention and are acted upon with dispatch. Nevertheless, the Village shall not
be liable for any defects in operation of automatic protection devices and
signal line systems, for any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon
receipt of any alarm from such a source, nor for the failure or neglect of any
person with a license issued by the State or with a franchise, in connection
with the installation and operation of equipment, the transmission of alarm
signals and prerecorded alarm messages or the relaying of such signals and
messages. In the event that the Village finds it necessary to disconnect a
defective automatic protection device or signaling device, the Village shall
incur no liability by such action. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-25: ADMINISTRATIVE RULES:
The Police Chief shall promulgate such rules as may be necessary for the
implementation of this Chapter and for determination of grounds for clerical
suspension, or revocation or cancellation of any license or permit required by
this Chapter. The rules shall be approved by the Village Manager and Board of
Trustees and shall be open to inspection by the public. (Ord. 84-15-45)
3-12-26: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The failure of any person to:
      1.   Obtain an alarm system user permit as required in subsection
3-12-3A of this Chapter,
      2.   Obtain an alarm equipment supplier's license as required by
subsection
3-12-4A of this Chapter,
      3.   Make the corrections to alarm systems as required by Section
3-12-20 of this Chapter, or
      4.   Obey any order of the Police Chief or Board of Trustees of
suspension or revocation of an alarm user permit or alarm equipment supplier
license after such person has exhausted his rights to hearings or appeals,
constitutes an offense punishable by a fine of up to seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Each day that such violation continues after the expiration
of the period allowed for compliance under the provisions of this Chapter shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
   B.   Failure of any person to comply with the requirements of written notice
of a violation hereof within three (3) days of receipt of such notice shall
constitute an offense punishable by a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Such notice shall continue in force and effect until full
compliance with the requirements stated therein, and each and every failure to
comply with such notice within twenty four (24) hours after the three (3) days
allowed for compliance shall constitute a separate offense. (Ords. 84-15-45,
99-5-11)
CHAPTER 13
GARAGE AND RUMMAGE SALES
SECTION:
3-13-1: Definition
3-13-2: Permit Required, Fee
3-13-3: Number Of Permits And Duration Of Sale Restricted; Conditions Of Permit
3-13-1: DEFINITION:
The term "garage, rummage, or other like sale" shall mean the public sale by
the owner or occupant of a dwelling unit of items of personal property owned
and accumulated at the dwelling unit in question and sold in or around the
garage area but not within the dwelling unit itself. (Ord. 74-15-32)
3-13-2: PERMIT REQUIRED, FEE:
   The owner or occupants of a dwelling unit shall apply to the Community
Development Department for a permit at least twenty-four (48) hours prior to
beginning a garage, rummage, or other like sale. A permit fee in the amount set
forth in Section
3-1-1-7 of this Code shall be paid at the time of application for each sale.
(Ords. 91-19-82, 25-11-26, 25-12-37)
3-13-3: NUMBER OF PERMITS AND DURATION OF SALE RESTRICTED; CONDITIONS OF
PERMIT:
No more than two (2) permits shall be issued to a dwelling unit during one
calendar year for garage, rummage, or other like sales and no single garage,
rummage or other like sale shall be allowed to continue for more than three (3)
consecutive days.
   A.   Types Of Items To Be Sold: The items to be sold at such a sale shall be
items of personal property, including, but not limited to, household goods,
clothing and furnishings, which have been used in the dwelling unit located on
the premises where the sale is to be conducted. Sale items purchased for
intentional sale or resale may not be sold at such a sale.
   B.   Hours Of Sale: No garage, rummage or other like sale may commence
before the hour of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. nor extend beyond the hour of six
o'clock (6:00) P.M.
   C.   Use Of Public Ways: No sidewalk or public parkway shall be obstructed
as a result of a garage, rummage or other like sale, nor shall any permanent or
temporary sign be placed in or on the parkway or other public right of way.
(Ords. 91-19-82, 93-18-73)
CHAPTER 14
AUTOMATIC VENDING MACHINES
SECTION:
3-14-1: Definition
3-14-2: Licenses Required
3-14-3: Applications For Licenses
3-14-4: License Fees
3-14-5: Investigation Of Applicant, Fee
3-14-6: Payment Of Fees, Emblem Required
3-14-7: Refund Notice
3-14-8: Revocation Of License
3-14-9: Penalties
3-14-1: DEFINITION:
The term "automatic vending machine" shall mean any machine which upon the
insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disc, dispenses a product,
including, but not limited to, candy, a beverage or snack food. (Ord. 96-9-45)
3-14-2: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   Operator's Business: No one shall engage in the automatic vending machine
"operator's business", which is herein defined to mean the conduct or
transaction of the business of distributing, placing, leasing or selling
automatic vending machines with an agreement to maintain, service or supply,
without first obtaining a license therefor and paying the license fee set forth
in section
3-1-1-7 of this Code.
(Ords. 96-9-45, 25-12-37)
3-14-3: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the director of administrative
services upon a form to be supplied by the village for that purpose and shall
contain the following information:
   A.   The applicant's name, sex, date of birth, social security number,
position and percentage of ownership of the business; and the name, sex, date
of birth, social security number, position and percentage of ownership in the
business of every sole owner, partner, corporate officer, director, manager,
and any person who owns five percent (5%) or more of the shares of the
applicant business entity or parent corporations of the applicant business
entity;
   B.   Name of manufacturer of the automatic vending machine to be licensed;
   C.   Prior convictions, if any, of applicant;
   D.   Place where the automatic vending machine is to be displayed or
operated, and the business conducted at that place;
   E.   A description of the automatic vending machine to be covered by the
license, mechanical features and serial number;
   F.   The description of the products available from the automatic vending
machine and the price therefor. (Ord. 96-9-45)
3-14-4: LICENSE FEES:
   No license may issue until the machine operator's business has paid the
appropriate license fees as set forth in section
3-1-1-7 of this title, with the license year being July 1 through the following
June 30.
(Ords. 96-9-45, 03-20-81, 25-12-37)
3-14-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT, FEE:
   A.   Investigation Of Applicant: The original application for a license(s)
shall be referred to the chief of police for investigation and verification of
the facts stated therein and he shall ascertain if the applicant is a person of
good moral character, and either approve or disapprove the application. No
license(s) shall be issued to any applicant unless approved by the chief of
police.
   B.   Fee: Before any action is taken upon any new application as provided in
section
3-14-3 of this chapter, the applicant shall pay to the village the sum of two
hundred dollars ($200.00), no part of which shall be refundable, to cover the
village's costs in reviewing and investigating such applicant. Provided,
however, that in the event the application is approved and the applicant
applies for the license(s) and pays the initial license fee(s) within the time
provided, said two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be credited toward the
initial license fee(s).
   C.   Examination Of Records: As a condition of any license issued under this
chapter, the department of administrative services, with reasonable prior
written notice, shall have the authority to examine all books and records of
anyone holding an automatic vending machine operator's business license to
ensure compliance with this section.
   D.   Renewal: Although applications for the renewal of any licenses issued
pursuant to this chapter shall not require the payment of the investigation fee
set forth in subsection B of this section, said renewals shall be accompanied
by an update of the information required in section
3-14-3 of this chapter for new applications. (Ord. 96-9-45)
3-14-6: PAYMENT OF FEES, EMBLEM REQUIRED:
All fees shall be paid to the director of administrative services who shall
issue, as evidence of the payment thereof, to each automatic vending machine a
self-voiding adhesive emblem to be placed on each automatic vending machine.
Such emblem shall bear the words "Village of Oak Lawn", and the date it shall
become void. It shall be unlawful for any person to mutilate said emblem during
the year for which it is issued.
Each such emblem shall be issued only for a particular automatic vending
machine and may not be transferred or used in any way whatsoever as the
required emblem of any other automatic vending machine whether or not such
other automatic vending machine is a new or replacement automatic vending
machine for the original automatic vending machine. Each and every automatic
vending machine must have such an emblem issued for its particular use after
the payment of the required fee. (Ord. 96-9-45)
3-14-7: REFUND NOTICE:
The name, address and phone number of the person, firm or corporation who may
be contacted if there is a problem with the automatic vending machine shall be
conspicuously posted on each automatic vending machine licensed under this
chapter. It shall be the obligation of the licensee to make sure his/her/its
machines are in compliance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 96-9-45)
3-14-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Every license issued under this section is subject to revocation in accordance
with section
3-1-6 of this title. (Ord. 96-9-45)
3-14-9: PENALTIES:
In addition to, and not in lieu of, the revocation of any license issued under
this section, any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense; and each day such violation
shall continue shall be regarded as a separate offense. (Ord. 96-9-45)
CHAPTER 15
REGULATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
3-15-1: Definitions
3-15-2: License Required
3-15-3: License Application
3-15-4: License Fee
3-15-5: Number Of Tobacco Retailer Licenses
3-15-6: Responsibility For Acts Of Employees
3-15-7: Suspension; Revocation Of License; Fine; Costs
3-15-8: Use Of Premises After License Revocation
3-15-9: Prohibited Sales; Delivery; Signs
3-15-10: Prohibition Against Persons Under The Age Of Sixteen Selling
3-15-11: Purchase By Persons Under The Age Of Twenty-One Prohibited
3-15-12: Possession By Minors Prohibited
3-15-13: Certain Free Distributions Prohibited
3-15-14: Vending Machines - Locking Devices
3-15-15: Penalty
3-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them below for the
purpose of this chapter:
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means.
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE OR E-CIGARETTE: (1) Any device that employs a battery or
other mechanism to heat a solution or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol
intended for inhalation; (2) any cartridge or container of a solution or
substance intended to be used with or in the device or to refill the device; or
(3) any solution or substance, whether or not it contains nicotine intended for
use in the device. The term "electronic cigarette" or "e-cigarette" includes
any such device, regardless of the details of the product appearance or
marketed name, generally manufactured to resemble a cigarette, cigar, pipe, or
other smoking device, including, but not limited to, vape pens, electronic
cigar, electronic cigarillos, electronic pipes, an electronic hookah, hookah
pen, personal vaporizer and any other alternative nicotine delivery systems
that may be battery operated devices designed to look like and be used in the
same manner as conventional tobacco products. The term "electronic cigarette"
or "e-cigarette" also includes the cartridges and component parts or
accessories of an electronic cigarette, individually or in any combination, as
well as nicotine or non-nicotine fluid and/or solids or other substance/
chemicals used to refill the cartridge.
ILLICIT THC PRODUCT: Any product, material, compound, isomer, acid, salt,
mixture, or preparation:
   (A)   Used or intended for human consumption;
   (B)   That is not made, manufactured, sold, given away, bartered, exchanged,
distributed, furnished, marketed, advertised, or otherwise held out for sale by
cannabis business establishments duly licensed under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1, et seq.) or the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1, et seq.); and
   (C)   That contains: (1) any amount of synthetic cannabinoids of any kind,
inclusive of acid forms, regardless of name, and including but not limited to
THC-O, delta-8 tetrahydrocannabinol, and delta-10 tetrahydrocannabinol, (2) a
total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol content concentration level in excess of
0.3% on a dry weight basis, or (3) a total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol content
in excess of 0.5 milligrams per labeled serving or individual unit or 2.5
milligrams per package regardless of the number of labeled servings or
individual units therein.
KRATOM: Any parts of the plant Mitragyna speciosa, whether growing or not, and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of that
plant, including but not limited to mitragynine and 7-hydroxymitragynine, as
defined in Section 5(a) of the Illinois Kratom Control Act, 720 ILCS 642/5(a),
as may be amended.
OWNER: The owner, lessor, or sublessor of any display of tobacco products,
electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative nicotine products, or of any vending
machine which sells tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative
nicotine products. An owner can be one or more persons, a corporation, a
partnership, or any other legal entity, jointly or severally, in whom is vested
all or part of the legal title to the tobacco products, electronic cigarettes,
and/or alternative nicotine products display, or vending machine.
SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID: A cannabinoid-like compound that was produced using
chemical synthesis, chemical modification, or chemical conversion, including in
vitro biosynthesis or other bioconversion of such a method. Synthetic
cannabinoids include the conversion of cannabinoids from one chemical structure
to another, such as tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) that was produced by the
conversion of cannabidiol.
TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL OR THC: Any naturally occurring or synthetic
tetrahydrocannabinol, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers
whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible
within the specific chemical designation and any preparation, mixture, or
substance containing, or mixed or infused with, any detectable amount of
tetrahydrocannabinol or tetrahydrocannabolic acid, including, but not limited
to, delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol, delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, delta-10-
tetrahydrocannabinol, tetrahydrocannabolic acid, tetrahydrocannabipherol, or
hexahydrocannabinol, however derived. For the purposes of this definition,
"isomer" means the optical, position, and geometric isomers.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any product containing or made from tobacco that is intended
for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco,
snuff, snus, and any other smokeless tobacco product which contains tobacco
that is finely cut, ground, powdered, or leaf and intended to be placed in the
oral cavity. "Tobacco product" includes any component, part, or accessory of a
tobacco product, whether or not sold separately.
TOBACCO RETAILER: Any retail establishment in which the sale of tobacco
products, electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative nicotine products occurs.
TOTAL DELTA-9 THC CONTENT: The value determined after the process of
decarboxylation, or the application of a conversion factor if the testing
methodology does not include decarboxylation, that expressed the potential
total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol content derived from the sum of the THC and
THCA content and reported on a dry weight basis, to be calculated either by
using a chromatograph technique using heat, such as gaschromatography, through
which THCA is converted from its acid form to its neutral form, or by using a
liquid chromatograph technique, which keeps the THCA intact, and using the
following conversion: [Total THC = (0.877 × THCA) + THC] which calculates the
potential total THC in a given sample.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self- service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
a tobacco product, electronic cigarette, and/or alternative nicotine products.
(Ords. 18-04-14, 21-08-41, 24-05-16, 25-12-36)
3-15-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, give away, deliver or keep
with the intention of selling, giving away or delivering tobacco products,
electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative nicotine products within the Village
without first having obtained a tobacco retailer's license pursuant to this
chapter. Such license shall be in addition to any other licenses or permits
required by this Code.
(Ords. 16-02-08, 25-12-36)
3-15-3: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   Application for a license hereunder shall be made in writing to the Director
of Community Development or their designee, on a form to be supplied by the
Village, and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of this Code.
   If the application is for a Class 2 Tobacco Retailer License as defined in
Section
3-15-15C of this Chapter, the applicant must attach with the application a map
showing that the business is not operating within one-hundred feet (one hundred
feet (100')) of any preexisting public or private preschool or elementary or
secondary school, day care center, playground, public library, or other
building used for educational or recreational programs for persons under the
age of eighteen (18) years.
   Effective as of July 1, 2025, as a condition to obtaining and maintaining a
Class 1 or 2 Tobacco Retailer License, licensees are required to install,
maintain, and operate a high-resolution video surveillance security system
within the licensed store premises, which shall record the activities within
all parts of the licensed store premises and shall function twenty-four (24)
hours a day and be linked to the Village's Axon Fusus security monitoring
system. Licensees shall have until December 31, 2025, to install such video
surveillance security system and link it with the Village's system. Licensees
shall post signage notifying patrons and employees that the store premises are
under video surveillance.
   Attached to each application, the applicant shall submit an affidavit
attesting that the applicant will conduct business in compliance with all
State, County, and local laws and ordinances.
(Ords. 18-04-14, 21-08-41, 25-12-36)
3-15-4: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   The annual license fees for Class 1 and Class 2 Tobacco Retailer
Licenses, effective for the licensing period beginning July 1, 2025, are set
forth in Section
3-1-1-7 of this Code.
   B.   The initial license fee for a tobacco retailer license shall be paid in
full within fourteen (14) days of the adoption of the ordinance creating the
new license and authorizing its issuance to the applicant. The initial license
shall be valid until the following June 30, unless suspended or revoked in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   A renewal tobacco retailer license shall be valid for a period of one
year beginning on July 1 of an applicable year and expiring on June 30 of the
following year, unless suspended or revoked in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter. The annual fee for a renewal license shall be paid in one lump
sum on or before September 30 of the applicable year.
   D.   A tobacco retailer's license is not transferrable or renewable.
   E.   A tobacco retailer's license shall be in addition to, and not in lieu
of, any automatic vending machine operator's license(s) which may be required
relative to the sale of tobacco products.
(Ords. 96-4-17, 98-9-46, 03-20-83, 21-01-07, 21-08-41, 24-05-16, 25-12-36)
3-15-5: NUMBER OF TOBACCO RETAILER LICENSES:
   A.   The number of Tobacco Retailer licenses authorized to be issued shall
be set and amended from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees and
shall be kept on record in the Office of the Village Clerk.
   B.   Class 1 Tobacco Retailer License:
      1.   Class 1 Tobacco Retailer Licenses shall be issued to grocery stores,
convenience stores, liquor stores, and gasoline stations. Class 1 Tobacco
Retailers sell products other than tobacco products, electronic cigarettes,
and/or alternative nicotine products as their primary business. Class 1 Tobacco
Retailer License authorizes the sale of cigarettes, cigars, and all other
tobacco types, as well as electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative nicotine
products. It excludes the sale of any product that contains THC, Illicit THC
Products, Kratom, or Synthetic Cannabinoids.
   C.   Class 2 Tobacco Retailer License:
      1.   Class 2 Tobacco Retailer Licenses shall be issued to any business
wishing to sell tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative
nicotine products, within the Village, excluding grocery stores, convenience
stores, liquor stores, and gasoline stations. Class 2 Tobacco Retailer License
authorizes the sale of cigarettes, cigars, and all other tobacco types, as well
as electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative nicotine products. It excludes the
sale of any product that contains THC, Illicit THC Products, Kratom, or
Synthetic Cannabinoids. The authorized number of Class 2 Tobacco Retailer
Licenses is set to twelve (12).
   D.   Any Tobacco Retailer license which is revoked or not issued shall
automatically reduce the number of authorized licenses by the total number of
revoked or non-issued licenses. The applicant for a Tobacco Retailer license
under the provisions of this chapter must apply for the appropriate license and
pay the initial annual license fee for such license within fourteen (14) days
of authorizing its issuance to the applicant and adoption of the ordinance
increasing the number of Tobacco Retailer licenses. In the event any applicant
fails to pay the initial license fee within said fourteen (14) day period, such
license shall be revoked, and the number of authorized licenses involved is
automatically reduced by the number of revocations.
(Ords. 21-08-41, 24-05-16, 25-12-36)
3-15-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ACTS OF EMPLOYEES:
   Any person holding a tobacco retailer's license shall be responsible for the
acts of his/her/their/its employees, and any violation of this chapter or any
other provisions of this Code by any such employee that occurs in the course of
his/her employment shall also constitute a violation by the licensee.
(Ords. 18-04-14, 21-08-41, 25-12-36)
3-15-7: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FINE; COSTS:
   A.   The Village President shall be charged with the administration of this
chapter. The Village President may suspend or revoke any license issued under
the provisions of this chapter if he determines that the licensee has violated
any of the provisions of this chapter. In lieu of, or in addition to, the
suspension or revocation of a license, the Village President may levy a fine on
the licensee as defined in section
3-15-14 of this chapter.
   B.   No such license shall be suspended or revoked and no licensee shall be
fined except after a hearing before the Village President, or his designee,
with at least seven (7) days’ prior written notice to the licensee, affording
the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend against the charges contained
in such notice. Notice of said hearing shall be given by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal service.
   C.   The Village President shall within seven (7) days after such hearing,
if he determines after such hearing that the license should be revoked or
suspended, and/or that the licensee should be fined, state the reasons for such
determination in a written order along with the amount of the fine, the period
of suspension and/or that the license has been revoked. A copy of such order
shall be served upon the licensee, in the same manner as required for the
notice of the hearing, within seven (7) days of its issuance.
   D.   Any licensee determined by the Village President to have violated any
of the provisions of this chapter shall pay to the Village the costs of the
hearing before the Village President on such violation. Said costs shall
include, but not be limited to, court reporter fees, the costs of the
transcripts or the recording of the hearing, attorney fees, the cost of
preparing and mailing notices and orders, and all other miscellaneous expenses
incurred by the Village in regard to the hearing. The licensee shall pay said
costs to the Village within thirty (30) days of notification of the amount of
the costs by the Village President. Notification shall be sent in the same
manner as required for the notice of the hearing. Failure to pay said costs
within thirty (30) days of notification shall constitute a violation of this
chapter and may be cause for suspension or revocation of the license, and/or
the levy of a fine. (Ords. 18-04-14, 21-08-41)
3-15-8: USE OF PREMISES AFTER LICENSE REVOCATION:
   When any license issued under this chapter is revoked, no tobacco retailer
license shall be granted to said licensee for a period of six (6) months
thereafter for the premises described in such revoked license.
(Ords. 96-4-17, 04-27-21, 25-12-36)
3-15-9: PROHIBITED SALES; DELIVERY; SIGNS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away
or deliver any tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative
nicotine products, to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age. Before
selling, offering for sale, giving, or furnishing a tobacco product, electronic
cigarette, or alternative nicotine product to another person, the person
selling, offering for sale, giving, or furnishing the tobacco product,
electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product shall verify that the
person is at least twenty one (21) years of age by examining from any person
that appears to be under thirty (30) years of age a government-issued
photographic identification that establishes the person to be twenty one (21)
years of age or older.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell, offer for sale, give
away, possess, deliver or keep with the intention of selling, giving away or
delilvering any tobacco product, electronic cigarette or e-cigarette, and/or
alternative nicotine products, which is in violation of any State, County or
local law.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to sell cigarettes not in the manufacturer-sealed
packs. Single or loose cigarette sales are prohibited.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away
or deliver any tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative
nicotine products that contain THC, Illicit THC Products, Kratom, or Synthetic
Cannabinoids. This includes but is not limited to any product: (1) intended for
human consumption by any means, including but not limited to, oral ingestion,
inhalation, smoking, or topical absorption that (2) contains naturally
occurring or synthetic tetrahydrocannabinol, including its salts, isomers, and
salts of isomers whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of
isomers is possible within the specific chemical designation and any
preparation, mixture, or substance containing, or mixed or infused with, any
detectable amount of tetrahydrocannabinol or tetrahydrocannabolic acid,
including, but not limited to, delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol, delta-9-
tetrahydrocannabinol, delta-10-tetrahydrocannabinol, tetrahydrocannabolic acid,
tetrahydrocannabipherol, or hexahydrocannabinol, however derived, or any other
substance determined to have similar intoxicating effects on the mind or body.
For the purposes of this definition, "isomer" means the optical, position, and
geometric isomers.
   E.   Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided for herein
shall be posted at or near every display of tobacco products, electronic
cigarettes, and/or alternative nicotine products, and on or upon every vending
machine which offers tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, and/or
alternative nicotine products for sale by the owner or operator of such display
of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative nicotine
products, or vending machine, or said owner's or operator's agent, employee, or
independent contractor. Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall state
in letters at least one inch (1") in height as follows:
      THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES, AND ALTERNATIVE
NICOTINE PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW
   F.   Every act or omission regardless of its nature, constituting a
violation of any of the provisions of this section by any owner, operator, or
the agent or employee of such owner and/or operator shall be deemed and held to
be the act of the owner and/or operator; and such owner and/or operator shall
be punished in the same manner as if such act or omission had been done or
omitted by the owner and/or operator personally.
(Ords. 18-04-14, 21-08-41, 24-05-16, 25-12-36)
3-15-10: PROHIBITION AGAINST PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF SIXTEEN SELLING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage, employ or permit a minor person
under sixteen (16) years of age to sell tobacco products electronic cigarettes,
and/or alternative nicotine products. (Ords. 16-02-08, 21-08-41, 24-05-16)
3-15-11: PURCHASE BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY-ONE PROHIBITED:
   It shall be unlawful for any minor person under twenty-one (21) years of age
to purchase any tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative
nicotine products, or to misrepresent his/her identity or age, or to use any
false or altered identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products,
electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative nicotine products.
(Ords. 16-02-08, 21-08-41, 24-05-16, 25-12-36)
3-15-12: POSSESSION BY PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE PROHIBITED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty-one (21) years of age to
possess any tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative
nicotine products.
(Ords. 16-02-08, 21-08-41, 24-05-16, 25-12-36)
3-15-13: CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the business of selling or otherwise
distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products, electronic cigarettes,
and/or alternative nicotine products to give away or deliver tobacco products,
electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative nicotine products free of charge to
any person on any right-of-way, sidewalk, park, playground or other property
owned by the Village, any school district, the Oak Lawn Park District or the
Oak Lawn Public Library.
(Ords. 16-02-08, 21-08-41, 25-12-36)
3-15-14: VENDING MACHINES - LOCKING DEVICES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, give away, deliver, or
keep with the intention of selling, giving away, or delivering any tobacco
products, electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative nicotine products by use of
a vending machine, unless such vending machine is equipped with a manual,
electric or electronic locking device controlled by the owner or operator of
the establishment upon which the vending machine is located, or the agent or
employee of such owner or operator, so as to prevent its operation by any
person under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   Any premises where access by any person under twenty-one (21) years of
age is prohibited by law, or premises where the public is generally not
permitted and where vending machines are strictly for the use of employees of
the business located on such premises, shall be exempt from the requirements of
subsection A of this section.
   C.   Vending machines used for the sale of tobacco products, electronic
cigarettes, and/or alternative nicotine products, and which are required to
have a locking device shall only be used to dispense tobacco products,
electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative nicotine products.
(Ords. 16-02-08, 21-08-41, 24-05-16, 25-12-36)
3-15-15: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person under twenty-one (21) years of age who is found to be in
violation of section
3-15-11 or
3-15-12 of this chapter shall be subject to the following penalties:
      1.   First violation within a twelve (12) month period: A fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Second violation within a twelve (12) month period: A fine of not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   Third violation within a twelve (12) month period: A fine of not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
      4.   Fourth or further violation within a twelve (12) month period: A
fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   B.   Any person who is found to be in violation of any section of this
chapter other than section
3-15-11 or
3-15-12 of this chapter shall be subject to the following penalties:
      1.   First violation within a twelve (12) month period: A fine of not
less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) nor more than two thousand dollars
($2,000.00). Said fine may be in addition to the suspension or revocation of
any tobacco retailer's license held by said person.
      2.   Second violation within a twelve (12) month period: A fine of not
less than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) nor more than three thousand dollars
($3,000.00). Said fine may be in addition to the suspension or revocation of
any tobacco retailer's license held by said person.
      3.   Third violation within a twelve (12) month period: A fine of three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00) nor more than four thousand dollars ($4,000.00)
and the automatic revocation of any tobacco retailer's license held by said
person.
      4.   Fourth or further violation within a twelve (12) month period: A
fine of four thousand dollars ($4,000.00) nor more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) and a minimum of thirty (30) hours of community service. (Ords. 18-
18-70, 21-08-41, 24-05-16)
CHAPTER 16
SURCHARGE FOR EMERGENCY 911 TELEPHONE SYSTEM
SECTION:
3-16-1: Surcharge Imposed
3-16-2: Referendum Authorized
3-16-3: Definitions
3-16-4: Exempt Network Connections
3-16-5: Effective Date Of Surcharge
3-16-6: Remittance
3-16-7: Written Report Of Remittance Required
3-16-8: Erroneous Payment
3-16-1: SURCHARGE IMPOSED:
A surcharge is hereby imposed, subject to the provisions of Section
3-16-2 of this Chapter, upon all billed subscribers of network connections
provided by telecommunications carriers engaged in the business of transmitting
messages by means of electricity originating within the corporate limits of the
Village for funding of the maintenance and improvement of the Village's "911"
emergency telephone system. (Ord. 91-19-85)
3-16-2: REFERENDUM AUTHORIZED:
   A.   A referendum shall be placed by the County Clerk of Cook County on the
March 17, 1992, ballot for all legal voters residing in the Village to vote
upon the following question:
 
Shall the Village of Oak Lawn impose a surcharge of up to one and no/     Y 
100 dollars ($1.00) per month per network connection, which surcharge
expense will be added to the monthly bill you receive for telephone or    N 
telecommunications charges, for the purpose of main- taining and
improving a 9-1-1 Emergency Telephone System?
 
   B.   If a majority of the votes cast upon the question are in favor thereof,
a surcharge is hereby imposed at a rate of one dollar ($1.00) per month per in-
service network connection, as hereinafter defined. A network connection shall
not be deemed to be in service where a subscriber's account is deemed
uncollectible by the telecommunications carrier. (Ord. 91-19-85)
3-16-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this Chapter the following definitions shall apply:
NETWORK CONNECTIONS: The number of voice grade communications channels directly
between a subscriber and a telecommunications carrier's public switched network
without the intervention of any other telecommunications carriers' switched
network which would be required to carry the subscriber's interpremises
traffic.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate,
partnership, association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation,
municipal corporation or political subdivision of this State, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court
engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of electricity.
TRANSMITTING MESSAGES: Shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in section
8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1 . (Ord. 91-19-85)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3-16-4: EXEMPT NETWORK CONNECTIONS:
The Village Clerk shall provide any telecommunications carrier subject to the
surcharge with a certified list of those network connections assigned to the
Village to be exempt from imposition of the surcharge. The certified list may
be revised by the Village on sixty (60) days' prior written notice provided to
the telecommunications carriers. (Ord. 91-19-85)
3-16-5: EFFECTIVE DATE OF SURCHARGE:
The surcharge shall be imposed on the first day of the month following the
expiration of thirty (30) days from the date the Village Clerk certifies to any
of the telecommunications carriers who are subject to the surcharge that the
referendum referred to in Section
3-16-2 of this Chapter has passed. (Ord. 91-19-85)
3-16-6: REMITTANCE:
Every telecommunications carrier shall remit to the Village the amount of
surcharge collected for each calendar month within thirty (30) days following
expiration of any month to which the surcharge applies, net of any network or
other "911" or sophisticated "911" system charge then due the particular
telecommunications carrier as shown on an itemized bill. The telecommunications
carrier collecting the surcharge shall be entitled to deduct three percent (3%)
of the gross amount of the surcharge collected to reimburse the
telecommunications carrier for the expense of accounting and collecting the
surcharge. (Ord. 91-19-85)
3-16-7: WRITTEN REPORT OF REMITTANCE REQUIRED:
Simultaneously with the remittance subscribed in Section
3-16-6 of this Chapter, each telecommunications carrier shall make a written
report to the Village Treasurer and Director of Administrative Services for the
period for which the remittance applies stating as follows:
   A.   The name of the telecommunications carrier.
   B.   The telecommunications carrier's principal place of business.
   C.   The number of network connections to which the surcharge applies.
   D.   The amount of surcharge due.
   E.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may from time to time require. (Ord. 91-19-85)
3-16-8: ERRONEOUS PAYMENT:
If it shall appear that an amount of surcharge has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this Chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any
surcharge due, or to become due, under this Chapter from the telecommunications
carrier who made the erroneous payments; provided, that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited. (Ord. 91-19-85)
CHAPTER 17
MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
(Rep. by Ord. 03-20-85)
CHAPTER 18
LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAXPAYERS' BILL OF RIGHTS ACT
SECTION:
3-18-1: Definitions
3-18-2: Application Of Payments
3-18-3: Interest On Overdue Payments
3-18-4: Determination Of Tax Liability
3-18-5: Appeals
3-18-6: Credits And Refunds
3-18-7: Voluntary Disclosure
3-18-8: Liens
3-18-9: Penalties
3-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CODE: The Oak Lawn village code.
TAX: Any pecuniary burden imposed by the village on individuals or entities to
support village government that is not a permit or other fee (excepting the
infrastructure maintenance fee), is not collected or administered by a
department or agency of the state of Illinois, and is not a tax on real
property under the Illinois property tax code 1 , including, but not limited
to, any of the following taxes that may now, or in the future be collected or
administered by the village:
   A.   Hotel and motel occupancy tax - See section
3-2-6 of this title;
   B.   Real estate transfer tax - See section
3-2-7 of this title;
   C.   Municipal telecommunications tax - See chapter 17 of this title;
   D.   Municipal electric utility tax - See chapter 21 of this title;
   E.   Municipal utility tax - See chapter 22 of this title; and
   F.   Municipal gas use tax - See chapter 23 of this title.
TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village manager of the village or the village manager's
designee. (Ords. 00-21-72, 01-15-55, 03-20-89)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.
3-18-2: APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS:
Notwithstanding any provision in this code to the contrary, any payment
designated by a taxpayer as payment of a particular tax liability shall be
applied to that taxpayer's liabilities pertaining to the particular tax as
follows: a) to the interest accrued on outstanding tax liabilities; b) to the
outstanding tax liability; c) to any penalties due on outstanding tax
liabilities; and d) to current tax liabilities. (Ord. 00-21-72)
3-18-3: INTEREST ON OVERDUE PAYMENTS:
Notwithstanding any provision in this code to the contrary, any tax not paid on
the date due shall accrue interest at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
amount due for each month or part of a month the tax remains unpaid. (Ords. 00-
21-72, 01-03-11)
3-18-4: DETERMINATION OF TAX LIABILITY:
To collect overdue taxes, a determination of tax liability notice shall be sent
to the taxpayer by registered or certified mail no more than four (4) years
after the end of the calendar year when the tax was due; however, if less than
seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due was paid, a determination of tax
liability notice may be sent no more than six (6) years after the end of the
calendar year when the tax was due. All determination of tax liability notices
shall include the following information:
   A.   The reason for the tax liability;
   B.   The amount of tax, interest and penalty due on the date of the
determination and information on how interest and penalties accrue;
   C.   The procedure for appeal; and
   D.   Information regarding the right of the village to audit the taxpayer's
books and records for a particular period and the village's obligation to
refund overpayments. (Ord. 00-21-72)
3-18-5: APPEALS:
Any taxpayer may, within forty five (45) days of the date of receipt of a
determination of tax liability notice or at any time before a current tax
becomes due, seek a hearing before the tax administrator to appeal the tax
liability. For reasonable cause shown in writing by the taxpayer and full
payment of the amount of tax protested plus accrued interest due, the tax
administrator shall extend the forty five (45) day period for appeal after a
determination has been issued for up to an additional forty five (45) days.
(Ord. 00-21-72)
3-18-6: CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
Notwithstanding any provision in this code to the contrary, taxpayers may, in
writing, claim a credit or refund for payment of taxes, interest or penalties
paid in error for up to four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in
which the payment was made. Claims must include dates, amount paid, and an
explanation of the error that occurred. The tax administrator shall determine
whether a credit or refund is justified and shall respond to the taxpayer in
writing within thirty (30) days of receipt of the claim. Tax amounts paid in
error shall be returned plus interest at the annual rate of five percent (5%).
(Ord. 00-21-72)
3-18-7: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
A taxpayer who has not received a written notice of an audit or determination
of tax liability may seek disclosure of tax liability by applying to the tax
administrator in writing for voluntary disclosure of the taxpayer's liability
pertaining to a particular tax and agreeing to pay, within ninety (90) days of
the date of the application, the tax due plus one percent (1%) interest per
month for all periods prior to filing the application, but not more than four
(4) years prior thereto. The taxpayer shall be liable for any underpaid taxes
and accrued interest during the four (4) year time period but, except for the
taxes and interest due under this section, the taxpayer shall not be liable for
any taxes imposed prior to the date of the application for voluntary
disclosure. (Ord. 00-21-72)
3-18-8: LIENS:
In the first month of each calendar year, the tax administrator shall cause all
liens against taxpayers to be reviewed. The village shall, in regard to liens
found to be improper, at its sole expense, release said liens, correct the
taxpayer's credit record and correct any public disclosure of said liens. (Ord.
00-21-72)
3-18-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   A penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax due shall be
charged against any taxpayer whose tax payment is not made on or before the
date the tax is due.
   B.   A penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax due shall be
charged against any taxpayer whose tax report or return is not filed on or
before the date said tax report or return is due.
   C.   A penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of the amount of tax due for the
period in relation to which a tax report or return is required to be filed
shall be charged against any taxpayer who fails to file, before the date that a
determination of tax liability notice is issued, a report or return for that
period.
   D.   The penalties set forth in subsections A and B of this section shall
not apply in the event the village imposes the penalty set forth in subsection
C of this section.
   E.   Any penalty may be abated by the tax administrator if reasonable cause
for nonpayment or failure to file is shown. (Ord. 00-21-72)
CHAPTER 19
SPECIAL SERVICE AREA NUMBER 2001-1 SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-19-1: Definitions
3-19-2: Tax Imposed
3-19-3: Exemptions
3-19-4: Exclusions
3-19-5: Passing On The Tax
3-19-6: Collection
3-19-7: Filing Returns And Remittance
3-19-8: Registration
3-19-9: Administration And Maintenance
3-19-10: Failure To Pay Tax
3-19-11: Resale Numbers
3-19-12: Severability
3-19-13: Penalty
3-19-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
   RETAILER: Means and includes every "person" engaged in the business of
making "sales at retail".
   SERVICEMAN: Any "person" who is engaged in the occupation of making "sales
of service".
   SPECIAL SERVICE AREA: The special service area established pursuant to
ordinance 01-21-76 adopted December 11, 2001, and legally described as the
following:
      That part of the Southeast 1/4 of the Southeast 1/4 of Section 3,
Township 37 North, Range 13 East of the Third Principal Meridian, bounded and
described as follows: Beginning at the point of intersection of the South line
of the North 468.00 feet of the Southeast 1/4 of the Southeast 1/4 of said
Section 3 with the West line of Crawford Avenue per document No. 19207514 being
a line 50.00 feet West of and parallel with the East line of the Southeast 1/
4 of said Section; thence South 00 degrees 14 minutes 10 seconds East along
said West line of Crawford Avenue 747.288 feet to the point of tangency with
the arc of a circle of 75.00 feet radius convex southeasterly whose chord bears
South 44 degrees 52 minutes 55 seconds West and whose tangents are the
aforesaid West line of Crawford Avenue and the North line of 95th Street per
easement document No. 10858729 being a line 50.00 feet North of and parallel
with the South line of the Southeast 1/4 of said Section; thence Southwesterly
118.12 feet along the aforesaid arc to the point of tangency with the aforesaid
North line of 95th Street; thence West along said North line 868.69 feet to the
West line of the East 994.00 feet of the Southeast 1/4 of the Southeast 1/4 of
said Section; thence North 00 degrees 14 minutes 10 seconds West along said
West line 400.00 feet to the North line of the South 450.00 feet of the
Southeast 1/4 of the Southeast 1/4 of said section; thence West along said
North line 92.075 feet to the East line of the West 241.00 feet of the
Southeast 1/4 of the Southeast 1/4 of said Section; thence North 00 degrees 12
minutes 27 seconds West along said East line 220.00 feet; thence North 44
degrees 37 minutes 06 seconds East 70.926 feet to the East line of the West
291.00 feet of the Southeast 1/4 of the Southeast 1/4 of said Section; thence
North 00 degrees 12 minutes 27 seconds West along said East line 150.00 feet to
the South line of the aforesaid North 468.00 feet of the Southeast 1/4 of the
Southeast 1/4 of said section; thence North 89 degrees 52 minutes 39 seconds
East along said South line 985.859 feet to the hereinabove designated point of
beginning, all in Cook County, Illinois;
      P.I.N.'s 24-04-400-018, -023, -024 and -025 (or such other permanent tax
index numbers that may be assigned to said legal description after a
resubdivision thereof);
      Commonly known as the Northwest corner of 95th Street and Pulaski Road.
   TAXPAYER: A "retailer" or "serviceman" who is required to pay either of the
taxes imposed by this chapter.
   VILLAGE: The village of Oak Lawn, Cook County, Illinois.
   B.   Any word or term used in this chapter, that is not specifically defined
in this section, including, but not limited to, those words and terms set forth
in this chapter in quotation marks (which are defined in either the Illinois
service occupation tax act and the Illinois retailers' occupation tax act),
shall be given the same meaning as given to those words or terms in the
Illinois service occupation tax act 1  and the Illinois retailers' occupation
tax act 2 . (Ord. 02-13-40)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
2 2. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-19-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   A tax is imposed upon all "persons" engaged in the business of making
sales of service (referred to as "servicemen") on all tangible personal
property "transferred" as an incident of a "sale of service", including
"computer software", and including photographs, negatives, and positives that
are the product of "photoprocessing", but not including products of
"photoprocessing" produced for use in motion pictures for public commercial
exhibition, within the "special service area". Unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, the tax imposed by this subsection is at the rate of one-half of
one percent (0.5%) of the "selling price" from the sales of tangible personal
property made in the course of business within the "special service area".
For the purpose of computing this tax, in no event shall the "selling price" be
less than the "cost price" to the "serviceman" of the tangible personal
property "transferred". The "selling price" of each item of tangible personal
property "transferred" as an incident of a "sale of service" may be shown as a
distinct and separate item on the "serviceman's" billing to the service
customer. If the "selling price" is not so shown, the "selling price" of the
tangible personal property is deemed to be fifty percent (50%) of the
"serviceman's" entire billing to the service customer. When, however, a
"serviceman" contracts to design, develop, and produce special order machinery
or equipment, the tax imposed by this subsection shall be based on the
"serviceman's cost price" of the tangible personal property "transferred"
incident to the completion of the contract.
At the election of any registered "serviceman" made for each fiscal year,
"sales of service" in which the aggregate annual "cost price" of tangible
personal property "transferred" as an incident to the "sales of service" is
less than thirty five percent (35%), or seventy five percent (75%) in the case
of "servicemen transferring" prescription drugs or "servicemen" engaged in
"graphic arts production", of the aggregate annual total "gross receipts" from
all "sales of service", the tax imposed by this subsection shall be based on
the "serviceman's cost price" of the tangible personal property "transferred"
incident to the sale of those services.
With respect to gasohol, as defined in the use tax act, 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 105/1, the tax imposed by this subsection shall apply to seventy
percent (70%) of the cost price of property transferred as an incident to the
sale of service on or after January 1, 1990, and before July 1, 2003, and to
one hundred percent (100%) of the cost price thereafter.
The tax shall be imposed at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) on food
prepared for immediate consumption and transferred incident to a sale of
service subject to this chapter or the Illinois service occupation tax act, 35
Illinois Compiled Statutes 115/1, by an entity licensed under the hospital
licensing act, 210 Illinois Compiled Statutes 85/1, the nursing home care act,
210 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1-101, or the child care act of 1969, 225
Illinois Compiled Statutes 10/1.
For purposes of this chapter, prepaid telephone calling arrangements shall be
considered tangible personal property subject to the tax imposed under this
subsection regardless of the form in which those arrangements may be embodied,
transmitted, or fixed by any method now known or hereafter developed.
Evidence that tangible personal property was sold by any "supplier" for
delivery to a "person" residing or engaged in business in the "special service
area" shall be prima facie evidence that such tangible personal property was
sold for the purpose of resale as an incident to a "sale of service" taxable
under this subsection.
   B.   A tax is imposed upon "persons" engaged in the business of selling at
retail tangible personal property (referred to as "retailers"), including
"computer software", and including photographs, negatives, and positives that
are the product of "photoprocessing", but not including products of
"photoprocessing" produced for use in motion pictures for public commercial
exhibition, within the "special service area". Unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, the tax imposed by this subsection is at the rate of one-half of
one percent (0.5%) of "gross receipts" from the "sales at retail" of personal
property made in the course of business within the "special service area".
With respect to gasohol, as defined in the use tax act, 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 105/1, the tax imposed by this subsection shall apply to seventy
percent (70%) of the proceeds of sales made on or after January 1, 1990, and
before July 1, 2003, and to one hundred percent (100%) of the cost price
thereafter.
For purposes of this chapter, prepaid telephone calling arrangements shall be
considered tangible personal property subject to the tax imposed under this
subsection regardless of the form in which those arrangements may be embodied,
transmitted, or fixed by any method now known or hereafter developed.
   C.   Except as provided in section
3-19-3 of this chapter, the taxes imposed by this section shall be imposed on
the same basis as the taxes imposed by the Illinois service occupation tax act
1  and the Illinois retailers' occupation tax act 2 .
   D.   The taxes imposed by this section are not imposed on any business,
activity, act or privilege to the extent that such business, activity, act or
privilege may not, under the constitutions or statutes of the United States or
the state of Illinois, be made the subject of taxation by the "village".
   E.   The taxes imposed by this section are imposed in addition to all other
taxes imposed by the "village", the state of Illinois or any other municipal
corporation or political subdivision of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 02-13-40)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
2 2. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-19-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Exempt from the tax imposed by subsection
3-19-2A of this chapter shall be those items of tangible personal property that
are exempt from taxation under the Illinois service occupation tax act 1 . To
the extent a specific item of tangible personal property described in the
Illinois service occupation tax act 2  is not defined in this chapter, such
specific item shall be given the same meaning under this chapter as given to
that specific item under the Illinois service occupation tax act 3 . In
addition, tangible personal property "transferred" incident to the completion
of a maintenance agreement is exempt from the tax imposed by subsection
3-19-2 A of this chapter.
   B.   Exempt from the tax imposed by subsection
3-19-2B of this chapter shall be the "gross receipts" from proceeds from the
sale of those items of tangible personal property that are exempt from taxation
under the Illinois retailers' occupation tax act 4 . To the extent a specific
item of tangible personal property described in the Illinois retailers'
occupation tax act 5  is not defined in this chapter, such specific item shall
be given the same meaning under this chapter as given to that specific item
under the Illinois retailers' occupation tax act 6 .
   C.   Exempt from the tax imposed by subsection
3-19-2A of this chapter are those items of tangible personal property that are
exempt from taxation under the home rule municipal service occupation tax act 7
. To the extent a specific item of tangible personal property described in
section
8-11-5 of the home rule municipal service occupation tax act 8  is not defined
in this chapter, such specific item shall be given the same meaning under this
chapter as given to that specific item under the home rule municipal service
occupation tax act 9 .
   D.   Exempt from the tax imposed by subsection
3-19-2B of this chapter are those items of tangible personal property that are
exempt from taxation under the home rule municipal retailers' occupation tax
act 1 . To the extent a specific item of tangible personal property described
in section
8-11-1 of the home rule municipal retailers' occupation tax act 2  is not
defined in this chapter, such specific item shall be given the same meaning
under this chapter as given to that specific item under the home rule municipal
retailers' occupation tax act 3 . (Ord. 02-13-40)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 115/1.
2 2. 35 ILCS 115/3-5.
3 3. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
4 4. 35 ILCS 120/1.
5 5. 35 ILCS 120/2-5.
6 6. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
7 7. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
8 8. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
9 9. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.
3 3. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.
3-19-4: EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   "Gross Receipts": Any amount added to the "selling price" of tangible
personal property by the "retailer" because of the "village's" home rule
municipal retailers' occupation tax (see section
3-2-1 of this title), the Illinois retailers' occupation tax 1  or the Illinois
use tax 2  and collected from the "purchaser", shall not be regarded as a part
of the "retailer's gross receipts" that are subject to the tax imposed by this
chapter.
   B.   "Selling Price": Any amount added by a "serviceman" to the "selling
price" of tangible personal property sold by the "serviceperson" as an incident
of a "sale of service" because of the "village's" home rule municipal service
occupation tax (see section
3-2-2 of this title), the Illinois service occupation tax 3  or the Illinois
service use tax 4  and collected from the "purchaser", shall not be regarded as
a part of the "selling price" that is subject to the tax imposed by this
chapter. (Ord. 02-13-40)
 
Notes
1 4. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2 5. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
3 6. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
4 7. 35 ILCS 110/1 et seq.
3-19-5: PASSING ON THE TAX:
The legal incidence of the taxes imposed by this chapter is on the "retailer"
and the "serviceman". Nevertheless, the "village" authorizes "persons" subject
to the taxes imposed by this chapter to reimburse themselves for their tax
liability by separately stating such tax as an additional charge, which charge
may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with other state of Illinois
and "village" taxes that "retailers" and "servicemen" are required to collect
and remit to the state of Illinois and the "village". (Ord. 02-13-40)
3-19-6: COLLECTION:
   A.   The taxes hereby imposed by section
3-19-2 of this chapter, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected by the "village" treasurer through the
procedures described in section
3-19-7 of this chapter.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed by section
3-19-2 of this chapter shall be paid in addition to any and all other taxes.
The taxes hereby imposed by section
3-19-2 of this chapter shall be paid to the "village" treasurer by any
"serviceman transferring" tangible personal property as an incident to a "sale
of service" taxable under subsection
3-19-2A of this chapter and by any "retailer" making a sale of tangible
personal property taxable under subsection
3-19-2B of this chapter.
   C.   Any tax required to be paid pursuant to section
3-19-2 of this chapter shall constitute a debt owed by the "retailer" or the
"serviceman" to the "village". (Ord. 02-13-40)
3-19-7: FILING RETURNS AND REMITTANCE:
   A.   On or before the twentieth day of each month, every "retailer" and
"serviceman" maintaining a place of business within the "special service area"
shall file with the "village" treasurer a remittance return and remit all
applicable tax for the preceding calendar month. The return shall be filed on a
form prescribed by the "village" treasurer, containing such information as the
"village" treasurer may reasonably require.
   B.   Notwithstanding the monthly return requirement of subsection A of this
section, in the event that a "retailer" or "serviceman" maintaining a place of
business within the "special service area" would remit between fifty dollars
($50.00) and one hundred dollars ($100.00) in tax revenue to the "village" per
month, said "taxpayer" shall make a tax return as required on a semiannual,
rather than monthly, basis. Said returns shall be in compliance with subsection
A of this section, except that they shall cover the "sales of service" and the
"sales at retail" during the semiannual (6 month) period, and shall be filed on
or before March 20 and September 20 each year.
   C.   Notwithstanding the monthly return requirement of subsection A of this
section, in the event that a "retailer" or "serviceman" maintaining a place of
business within the "special service area" would remit less than fifty dollars
($50.00) in tax revenue to the "village" per month, said "taxpayer" shall make
a return as required on an annual, rather than monthly, basis. Said returns
shall be in compliance with subsection A of this section, except that they
shall cover "sales of service" and the "sales at retail" during the prior one
year (12 month) period, and shall be filed on or before March 20 each year.
   D.   Where such tangible personal property is sold under a conditional sales
contract, or under any other form of sale wherein the payment of the principal
sum, or a part thereof, is extended beyond the close of the period for which
the return is filed, the "retailer" or the "serviceman", in collecting the tax
may collect, for each tax return period, only the tax applicable to the part of
the "selling price" actually received during such tax return period. (Ord. 02-
13-40)
3-19-8: REGISTRATION:
Every "retailer" or "serviceman" maintaining a place of business within the
"special service area" shall register with the "village" administrative
services department within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this
chapter or the date of becoming a "retailer" or "serviceman" within the
"special service area", whichever is later. (Ord. 02-13-40)
3-19-9: ADMINISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Every "retailer" engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property at retail in the "special service area", every "supplier" required or
authorized to collect the taxes hereunder and every "serviceman" making sales
of service within the "special service area" shall keep records and books of
all sales of tangible personal property, together with invoices, bills of
lading, sales records, copies of bills of sale, inventories prepared as of
December 31 of each year or otherwise annually as has been the custom in the
specific trade and other pertinent papers and documents. Every "retailer" who
is engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail in
the "special service area", every "supplier" required or authorized to collect
the taxes hereunder and every "serviceman" making sales of service in the
"special service area" and who, in connection with such business, also engages
in other activities (including, but not limited to, engaging in a service
occupation) shall keep such additional records and books of all such activities
as will accurately reflect the character and scope of such activities and the
amount of receipts realized therefrom. The "village" may adopt rules that
establish requirements, including record forms and formats, for records
required to be kept and maintained by "taxpayers". For purposes of this
section, "records" means all data maintained by the "taxpayer", including data
on paper, microfilm, microfiche or any type of machine sensible data
compilation. All books and records and other papers and documents which are
required by this section shall be kept in the English language and shall, at
all times during business hours of the day, be subject to inspection by the
"village" or its duly authorized agents and employees.
   B.   To support deductions made on the tax return form, or authorized under
this chapter, on account of receipts from isolated or occasional sales of
tangible personal property, on account of receipts from sales of tangible
personal property for resale, on account of receipts from sales to governmental
bodies or other exempted types of "purchasers", on account of receipts from
sales of tangible personal property in interstate commerce, and on account of
receipts from any other kind of transaction that is not taxable under this
chapter, entries in any books, records or other pertinent papers or documents
of the "taxpayer" in relation thereto shall be in detail sufficient to show the
name and address of the "taxpayer's" customer in each such transaction, the
character of every such transaction, the date of every such transaction, the
amount of receipts realized from every such transaction and such other
information as may be necessary to establish the nontaxable character of such
transaction under this chapter.
   C.   Except in the case of a sale to a "purchaser" who will always resell
and deliver the property to his customers outside the "special service area",
anyone claiming that he has made a nontaxable sale for resale in some form as
tangible personal property shall also keep a record of the "purchaser's"
registration number or resale number with the "village".
   D.   It shall be presumed that all sales of tangible personal property are
subject to tax under this chapter until the contrary is established, and the
burden of proving that a transaction is not taxable hereunder shall be upon the
"retailer" or "serviceman" who would be required to remit the tax to the
"village" if such transaction is taxable. In the course of any audit or
investigation or hearing by the "village" with reference to a given "taxpayer",
if the "village" finds that the "taxpayer" lacks documentary evidence needed to
support the "taxpayer's" claim to exemption from tax hereunder, the "village"
is authorized to notify the "taxpayer" in writing to produce such evidence, and
the "taxpayer" shall have sixty (60) days, subject to the right of the
"village" to extend this period either on request for good cause shown or on
its own motion, from the date when such notice is sent to the "taxpayer" by
certified or registered mail (or delivered to the "taxpayer" if the notice is
served personally) in which to obtain and produce such evidence for the
"village's" inspection, failing which the matter shall be closed, and the
transaction shall be conclusively presumed to be taxable hereunder.
   E.   The "village's" director of administrative services, or any person so
certified as a deputy or representative, may inspect the books and records of a
"retailer" or "serviceman" required to pay either of the taxes levied by
section
3-19-2 of this chapter, and the purpose of such inspection shall be to ensure
the proper administration of said section and enforcement of the collection of
the tax imposed. It is unlawful for any "retailer" or "serviceman" to prevent,
hinder or interfere with the "village's" director of administrative services or
the duly authorized deputy or representative in the discharge of duties in the
enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 02-13-40)
3-19-10: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
   A.   In the event of failure by any "retailer" or "serviceman" to pay to the
"village" either of the taxes imposed by this chapter by the date the same
shall be due, interest shall accumulate at a rate as imposed by local
government taxpayers' bill of rights act located at chapter 18 of this title.
In addition, a penalty shall be assessed and collected against such "retailer"
or "serviceman" as imposed by the local government taxpayers' bill of rights
act located at chapter 18 of this title.
   B.   Whenever any "retailer" or "serviceman" shall fail to pay any tax as
herein provided, the "village" attorney shall, upon the request of the
"village" president and board of trustees, bring or cause to be brought an
action to enforce the payment of said tax on behalf of the "village" in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   If the "village" president or his/her designee, after hearing held,
shall find that such "retailer" or "serviceman" has wilfully avoided payment of
either of the taxes imposed by this chapter, the "village" president may
suspend or revoke all "village" licenses held by such tax evader. Such "person"
may have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held not less than
five (5) days after notice of the time and place of the hearing, said notice,
addressed to him at his last known place of business. Pending notice, hearing
and finding, any license which such "retailer" or "serviceman" may possess
shall be temporarily suspended by the "village" president. Any suspension or
revocation of any license shall not release or discharge such "retailer" or
"serviceman" from his/her/its civil liability for the payment of the tax nor
from prosecution for such offense.
   D.   The "taxpayer" shall be entitled to all rights under this chapter as
provided in the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act located at
chapter 18 of this title. (Ord. 02-13-40)
3-19-11: RESALE NUMBERS:
   A.   If the "purchaser" is not registered with the "village's"
administrative services department as a "taxpayer", but claims to be a reseller
of the tangible personal property in such a way that such resales are not
taxable under this chapter, such "purchaser" (except in the case of an out of
state "purchaser" who will always resell and deliver the property to his
customers outside Illinois) shall apply to the "village's" administrative
services department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which
will show the "village's" administrative services department why such applicant
is not liable for tax under this chapter on any of his resales and shall
furnish such additional information as the "village's" administrative services
department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the "village's" administrative
services department shall assign a resale number to the applicant and shall
certify such number to him. The "village's" administrative services department
may cancel any such number which is obtained through misrepresentation, or
which is used to make a purchase tax free when the purchase in fact is not a
purchase for resale, or which no longer applies because of the "purchaser's"
having discontinued the making of tax exempt resales of the property. The
"village's" administrative services department may restrict the use of the
number to one year at a time or to some other definite period if the
"village's" administrative services department finds it impracticable or
otherwise inadvisable to issue such numbers for indefinite periods.
   C.   Except as provided in this section, a "sale at retail" shall be made
tax free on the grounds of being a sale for resale if the "purchaser" has an
active registration number or resale number from the "village's" administrative
services department and furnishes that number to the seller in connection with
certifying to the seller that any sale to such "purchaser" is nontaxable
because of being a sale for resale. Failure to present an active registration
number or resale number and a certification to the seller that a sale is for
resale creates a presumption that a sale is not for resale. This presumption
may be rebutted by other evidence that all of the seller's sales are sale for
resale, or that a particular sale is a sale for resale. (Ord. 02-13-40)
3-19-12: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or the application of any provision thereof,
is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall not affect
other provisions of this chapter or their application, that can be given effect
without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its application. Each
unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such provision, is
severable, unless otherwise provided. (Ord. 02-13-40)
3-19-13: PENALTY:
Any "retailer" or "serviceman" violating the provisions of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), for each offense. (Ord. 02-13-40)
CHAPTER 20
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-20-1: Definitions
3-20-2: Tax Imposed
3-20-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-20-4: Returns To Department
3-20-5: Resellers
3-20-6: Severability
3-20-7: Effective Date
3-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms have the meanings as set forth in
section 5-7 of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax act 1 , as
amended:
   Amount paid.
   Department.
   Gross charge.
   Interstate telecommunications.
   Intrastate telecommunications.
   Person.
   Purchase at retail.
   Retailer.
   Retailer maintaining a place of business in this state.
   Sale at retail.
   Service address.
   Taxpayer.
   Telecommunications. (Ord. 04-07-32)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-7.
3-20-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all of the following acts or privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in the
village intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent (6%)
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multimunicipal taxation of the act or privilege
that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon proof
that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another municipality on that event, shall
be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
section to the extent of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in the
municipality that was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
municipal tax.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in the
village interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent (6%)
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multistate or multimunicipal taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state or municipality in this
state on such event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant
to or authorized by this section to the extent of the amount of such tax
properly due and paid in such other state or such tax properly due and paid in
a municipality in this state, which was not previously allowed as a credit
against any other state or local tax in this state.
   C.   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on any act or privilege
to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the village.
(Ords. 03-20-85, 04-07-32, 21-01-08)
3-20-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 03-20-85)
3-20-4: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
On or before August 31, 2004, and on or before the last day of every month
thereafter, the tax imposed under this chapter on telecommunication retailers
shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required by the
department pursuant to the Illinois simplified municipal telecommunications tax
act (public act 92-526, section 5-50) and any accompanying rules and
regulations created by the department to implement the Illinois simplified
municipal telecommunications tax act. (Ord. 03-20-85)
3-20-5: RESELLERS:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of originating
or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax free on the
grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active resale
number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 03-20-85)
3-20-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision of this
chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this chapter, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord. 03-
20-85)
3-20-7: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption and
approval and publication in pamphlet form as required by law, provided,
however, that:
   A.   Sections
3-20-2 and
3-20-3 of this chapter, and the tax provided for therein, shall take effect for
all bills issued on or after July 1, 2004; and
   B.   Any amounts due or payable to the village for any tax periods ending
prior to July 1, 2004, shall nevertheless remain payable pursuant to chapter 17
of this title, as converted by operation of law to the simplified municipal
telecommunications tax on January 1, 2003, pursuant to public act 92-0526, as
if this chapter had not been adopted. (Ord. 03-20-85)
CHAPTER 21
ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
3-21-1: Definitions
3-21-2: Tax Imposed
3-21-3: Exception
3-21-4: Collection Of Taxes
3-21-5: Tax Remittance And Return
3-21-6: Resales
3-21-7: Books And Records
3-21-8: Credits And Refunds
3-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions, any
state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility, as defined in section
8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code 1 , directly in the generation,
production, transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
VILLAGE: The village of Oak Lawn. (Ord. 03-20-86)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3-21-2: TAX IMPOSED:
Effective July 1, 2015, pursuant to section
8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code and any and all other applicable
authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or consuming
electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the village at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
   A.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month; 0.537
cents per kilowatt hour;
   B.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month; 0.352
cents per kilowatt hour;
   C.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month; 0.318
cents per kilowatt hour;
   D.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month; 0.309
cents per kilowatt hour;
   E.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month; 0.299
cents per kilowatt hour;
   F.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.285 cents per kilowatt hour;
   G.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.280 cents per kilowatt hour;
   H.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.276 cents per kilowatt hour;
   I.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.271 cents per kilowatt hour;
   J.   For all electricity consumed in excess of 20,000,000 kilowatt hours in
a month; 0.266 cents per kilowatt hour.
This tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures imposed
by the village, the state of Illinois or any other political subdivision of the
state. (Ord. 15-11-41)
3-21-3: EXCEPTION:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the tax shall not be
imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax would
violate the constitution or statutes of the United States or the constitution
or statutes of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 03-20-86)
3-21-4: COLLECTION OF TAXES:
   A.   Subject to the provision of section
3-21-6 of this chapter regarding the delivery of electricity to resellers, the
tax imposed under this chapter shall be collected from purchasers by the person
maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers electricity to such
purchasers. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the same time
and in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
   B.   Any tax required to be collected by this chapter, and any tax in fact
collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the village by the person delivering
the electricity, provided, that the person delivering electricity shall be
allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the charges
for which are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that if such
charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to
remit such tax.
   C.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser
by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an
amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax they collected to reimburse them
for their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing
for filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the village upon
request. For purposes of this chapter, any partial payment of a billed amount
not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to be for the
delivery of electricity. (Ord. 03-20-86)
3-21-5: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   A.   Every tax collector shall on a monthly basis file a return in a form
prescribed by the village's director of administrative services. The return and
accompanying remittance shall be due on or before the last day of the month
following the month during which the tax is collected.
   B.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser, then the purchaser shall file a return in a form prescribed by the
village's director of administrative services and pay the tax directly to the
village on or before the last day of the month following the month during which
the electricity is used or consumed. (Ord. 03-20-86)
3-21-6: RESALES:
   A.   Electricity that is delivered to a person in this village shall be
considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the village and
furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity, and certifies
to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially nontaxable as a
sale for resale.
   B.   If a person who receives electricity in the village claims to be an
authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to village for a
resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why it is not liable for
the tax imposed by this chapter on any purchases of electricity and shall
furnish such additional information as the village may reasonably require.
   C.   Upon approval of the application, village shall assign a resale number
to the applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant.
   D.   The village may cancel the resale number of any person if the person
fails to pay any tax payable under this chapter for electricity used or
consumed by the person, or if the number:
      1.   Was obtained through misrepresentation; or
      2.   Is no longer necessary because the person has discontinued making
resales.
   E.   If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or consumption
and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by this chapter
directly to the village pursuant to section
3-21-5 of this chapter on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses or
consumes, and shall collect the tax pursuant to section
3-21-4 of this chapter and remit the tax pursuant to section
3-21-5 of this chapter on the amount of electricity delivered by the reseller
to a purchaser.
   F.   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an active
resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section shall be
excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the electricity
delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports to the village the
total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and such other
information that the village may reasonably require. (Ord. 03-20-86)
3-21-7: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every tax collector, and every taxpayer required to pay the tax imposed by this
chapter shall keep accurate books and records of its business or activity,
including contemporaneous books and records denoting the transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under this chapter. The
books and records shall be subject to and available for inspection at all times
during business hours of the day. (Ord. 03-20-86)
3-21-8: CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, in order to permit sound
fiscal planning and budgeting by the village, no person shall be entitled to a
refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under this chapter unless the person
files a claim for refund or credit within three (3) years after the date on
which the tax was paid or remitted. (Ord. 03-20-86)
CHAPTER 22
MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
3-22-1: Definitions
3-22-2: Tax Imposed
3-22-3: Exemptions
3-22-4: Compensation For Village Services
3-22-5: Effectiveness Of Tax
3-22-6: Tax Return Required
3-22-7: Overpayment
3-22-8: Limitation On Action To Recover
3-22-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale, and for
all services rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received
in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property of every
kind and material and for all services rendered therewith, and shall be
determined without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product
or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or
any other expenses whatsoever. Gross receipts shall not include any amounts
specifically excluded from the definition of gross receipts in section
8-11-2(d) of the Illinois municipal code.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions, any
state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
VILLAGE: The village of Oak Lawn. (Ord. 03-20-87)
3-22-2: TAX IMPOSED:
Effective July 1, 2015, a tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the business
of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption
within the corporate limits of the village and not for resale, at the rate of
five percent (5%) of the gross receipts therefrom. (Ord. 15-11-42)
3-22-3: EXEMPTIONS:
No tax is imposed by this chapter with respect to any transaction in interstate
commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to taxation by
this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged
in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas be
subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter for such transactions
as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of the retailers'
occupation tax act, 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq. (Ord. 03-20-87)
3-22-4: COMPENSATION FOR VILLAGE SERVICES:
The tax established by this chapter shall be in addition to the payment of
money, or value of products or services furnished to the village by the
taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other public
places, or installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of
poles, wires, pipes, or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's
business. (Ord. 03-20-87)
3-22-5: EFFECTIVENESS OF TAX:
The tax provided for herein shall be based on "gross receipts", as herein
defined, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or after February
1, 2004. (Ord. 03-20-87)
3-22-6: TAX RETURN REQUIRED:
   A.   On or before March 31, 2004, each taxpayer shall make a tax return as
required by this chapter, to the village's director of administrative services,
stating:
      1.   Its name.
      2.   Its principal place of business.
      3.   Its gross receipts during the prior month upon the basis of which
the tax is imposed.
      4.   Amount of tax.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the village may
require.
On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer shall make a
like return to the village's director of administrative services for a
corresponding one month period.
   B.   The taxpayer making the return shall, at the time of making such
return, pay to the village's director of administrative services the amount of
tax herein imposed. In connection with any return the taxpayer may, if it so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon its total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
(Ord. 03-20-87)
3-22-7: OVERPAYMENT:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax due under this chapter has been paid
which was not in fact due, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or an
error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment. However, no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior
to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord. 03-20-87)
3-22-8: LIMITATION ON ACTION TO RECOVER:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this chapter
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 03-20-87)
CHAPTER 23
MUNICIPAL GAS USE TAX
SECTION:
3-23-1: Short Title
3-23-2: Definitions
3-23-3: Tax Imposed
3-23-4: Collection Of Tax
3-23-5: Books And Records
3-23-1: SHORT TITLE:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall be known as the MUNICIPAL GAS USE TAX and
is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by the village of Oak Lawn,
the state of Illinois, or any other municipal corporation or political
subdivision thereof. (Ord. 03-20-88)
3-23-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association, joint
stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
PUBLIC UTILITIES ACT: The public utilities act 1 , as amended.
PUBLIC UTILITY: A public utility as defined in section 3-105 of the public
utilities act 2 .
RETAIL PURCHASER: Any person who purchases gas in a sale at retail.
SALE AT RETAIL: Any sale of gas by a retailer to a person for use or
consumption, and not for resale. For this purpose, the term "retailer" means
any person engaged in the business of distribution, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas.
VILLAGE: The village of Oak Lawn. (Ord. 03-20-88)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
2 2. 220 ILCS 5/3-105.
3-23-3: TAX IMPOSED:
Effective July 1, 2015:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, a tax is imposed on the
privilege of using or consuming gas in the village that is purchased in a sale
at retail at the rate of five cents ($0.05) per therm.
   B.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on
the retail purchaser, and nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose
a tax on the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling or
transporting gas.
   C.   The retail purchaser shall pay the tax, measured by therms of gas
delivered to the retail purchaser's premises, to the public utility delivering
the gas to the retail purchaser and designated to collect the tax pursuant to
section
3-23-4 of this chapter, before the payment due date of the public utility's
bill first reflecting the tax, or directly to the village's director of
administrative services on or before the last day of the month following the
month in which the gas is delivered to the retail purchaser if no public
utility has been designated to collect the tax pursuant to said section
3-23-4 of this chapter or if the gas is delivered by a person other than a
public utility so designated.
   D.   To prevent multiple taxation, the use of gas in the village by a retail
purchaser shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this chapter if the gross
receipts from the sale at retail of such gas to the retail purchaser are
properly subject to a tax imposed upon the seller of such gas pursuant to the
village's municipal utility tax, as amended from time to time (chapter 22 of
this title) authorized pursuant to section
8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code.
   E.   A purchaser who purchases gas for resale and therefore does not pay the
tax imposed by this chapter with respect to the use or consumption of gas, but
who later uses or consumes part or all of the gas, shall pay the tax directly
to the village's director of administrative services on or before the last day
of the month following the month in which the gas is used or consumed.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose a tax upon a
person, business or activity which, under the constitutions of the United
States or the state of Illinois, may not be made subject to taxation by the
village.
   G.   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this chapter, whether as a result of mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be: 1) credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment or 2) subject to a refund if no such tax is due or to become
due; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior
to the filing of a claim therefore shall be so credited or refunded.
   H.   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
chapter shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount. (Ord. 15-11-42)
3-23-4: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   The village's director of administrative services is authorized to
enter into a contract for collection of the tax imposed by this chapter with
any public utility providing gas service in the village. The contract shall
include and substantially conform with the following provisions:
      1.   The public utility will collect the tax with respect to gas
delivered by it to its customers as an independent contractor;
      2.   The public utility will remit collected taxes to the village's
director of administrative services no more often than once each month;
      3.   The public utility will be entitled to withhold from tax collections
a service fee not to exceed three percent (3%) of the amounts collected and
timely remitted to the village's director of administrative services;
      4.   The public utility shall not be liable to the village for any tax
not actually collected from a retail purchaser; and
      5.   Such additional terms as the parties may agree upon. (Ords. 03-20-
88, 15-11-42)
3-23-5: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records, including original source
documents and books of entry, denoting the activities or transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability or exemption under this
chapter. All such books and records shall, at all times during business hours,
be subject to and available for inspection by the village. (Ord. 03-20-88)
CHAPTER 24
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
SECTION:
3-24-1: Definitions
3-24-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
3-24-3: PEG Access Support Fee Imposed
3-24-4: Applicable Principles
3-24-5: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder Or Cable Operator
3-24-6: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
3-24-7: Late Fees/Payments
3-24-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in- kind contributions received by the
holder or cable operator for the operation of a cable or video system to
provide cable service or video service within the holder's or cable operator's
cable service or video service area within the village.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, in-kind
repair charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or cable
operator or its affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for
advertising or for promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived
from the operation of the network to provide cable service or video service
within the village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers
in the village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the
relevant regional or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder or cable operator that is
derived from the operation of the network to provide cable service or video
service with respect to commissions that are received as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the network, such as a
"home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the revenue attributable to the other services, capabilities, or
applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the holder or cable
operator can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder or cable
operator to noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the books
and records and records kept in the regular course of business and any
applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder or cable operator shall be included
in the calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue
as revenue of the affiliate has the effect of evading the payment of the fee
permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) which would otherwise
be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
PEG: Public, education and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d) by the holder or cable operator to the village
for the service areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder or cable operator to a municipality
for the service areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 07-25-84)
3-24-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder or cable operator
providing cable service or video service in the village.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's or cable operator's gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To The Village: The holder shall notify the village at least ten
(10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service
or video service in the village.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder or cable operator shall be liable for
and pay the service provider fee to the village. The liability for the fee
shall commence on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30)
days after receipt of the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder or
cable operator. The ordinance adopting this chapter shall be sent by the
village clerk via regular or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the address
listed on the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-401(b)(6) to the village and to any cable operator.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement in
effect with the village in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 07-25-84)
3-24-3: PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   PEG Fee Imposed: A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder or cable operator providing cable service or video service in the
village in addition to the fee imposed pursuant to section
3-24-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be one
percent (1%) of the holder's or cable operator's gross revenues or, if greater,
the percentage of gross revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the
village or its designee for PEG access support in the village as of January 1,
2007, as provided in 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d)(1).
   C.   Payment: The holder or cable operator shall pay the PEG access support
fee to the village or to the entity designated by the village to manage PEG
access. The liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date
set forth in subsection 3-24-2D of this chapter.
   D.   Payment Due: The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar
quarter. If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked.
Each payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation
of the fee.
   E.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary
payments for PEG access that would have been due during the remaining term of
the agreement had it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments
made by an incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be
credited against the fees that operator owes under subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 07-25-84)
3-24-4: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 07-25-84)
3-24-5: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER OR CABLE OPERATOR:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder or
cable operator from any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village,
including any tax that is or may later be required to be paid with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village's
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 07-25-84)
3-24-6: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the municipality's submission of an invoice
for the sum. (Ord. 07-25-84)
3-24-7: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill
of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 07-25-84)
CHAPTER 25
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
SECTION:
3-25-1: Customer Service And Privacy Protection Law
3-25-2: Enforcement
3-25-3: Penalties
3-25-4: Customer Credits
3-25-1: CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW:
   A.   Adoption: The regulations of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video
providers offering services within the village's boundaries.
   B.   Amendments: Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection
law that becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter shall be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the municipality's boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 07-25-76)
3-25-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The village does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all the
customer service and privacy protection standards of the cable and video
protection law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
village. (Ord. 07-25-76)
3-25-3: PENALTIES:
The village, pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(r)(1), does
hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the cable
and video protection law by cable or video providers in addition to the
penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a
competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each day of the material breach and shall not exceed twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence of a material breach per
customer.
   A.   "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
   B.   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified
material breach.
   C.   A material breach, for the purposes of assuming penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 07-25-76)
3-25-4: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(s) and applied on the statement issued to the
customer for the next billing cycle following the violation or following the
discovery of the violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for
providing the credits, and the customer is under no obligation to request the
credit. (Ord. 07-25-76)
CHAPTER 26
SPECIAL SERVICE AREA NUMBER 2005-1 SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-26-1: Definitions
3-26-2: Tax Imposed
3-26-3: Exemptions
3-26-4: Exclusions
3-26-5: Passing On The Tax
3-26-6: Collection
3-26-7: Filing Returns And Remittance
3-26-8: Registration
3-26-9: Administration And Maintenance
3-26-10: Failure To Pay Tax
3-26-11: Resale Numbers
3-26-12: Penalty
3-26-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint, public or private corporation, limited liability company, or a
receiver, executor, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any
court.
   RETAILER: Means and includes every "person" engaged in the business of
making "sales at retail".
   SERVICEMAN: Any "person" who is engaged in the occupation of making "sales
of service".
   SPECIAL SERVICE AREA: The special service area established pursuant to
ordinance 06-23-146, adopted December 12, 2006, and legally described as the
following:
      Originally known as:
      Lots 1 and 2 in Boyd's subdivision of part of the southeast 1/4 of the
southeast 1/4 of section 3, township 37 north, range 13, east of the third
principal meridian, (except that part taken for highway purposes), in Cook
County, Illinois;
      Now known as:
      Lots 1 and 2 in the Target Oak Lawn re-subdivision, being a re-
subdivision of Boyd's subdivision of part of the southeast 1/4 of the southeast
1/4 of section 3, township 37 north, range 13, east of the third principal
meridian, (except that part taken for highway purposes), all in Cook County,
Illinois;
      P.I.N.'s: 24-03-410-024 and -025.
      The approximate street location of said territory is described as
follows: The northeast corner of Keeler Avenue and 95th Street, in the village
of Oak Lawn, Illinois.
   TAXPAYER: A "retailer" or "serviceman" who is required to pay either of the
taxes imposed by this chapter.
   VILLAGE: The village of Oak Lawn, Cook County, Illinois.
   B.   Any word or term used in this chapter that is not specifically defined
in this section, including, but not limited to, those words and terms set forth
in this chapter in quotation marks which are defined in either the Illinois
service occupation tax act 1  or the Illinois retailers' occupation tax act 2 ,
shall be given the same meaning as given to those words or terms in the
Illinois service occupation tax act and the Illinois retailers' occupation tax
act. (Ord. 08-19-56)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
2 2. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-26-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   A tax is imposed upon all "persons" engaged in the business of making
sales of service (referred to as "servicemen") on all tangible personal
property "transferred" as an incident of a "sale of service", including
"computer software", and including photographs, negatives, and positives that
are the product of "photoprocessing", but not including products of
"photoprocessing" produced for use in motion pictures for public commercial
exhibition, within the "special service area". Unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, the tax imposed by this subsection is at the rate of one-half of
one percent (0.5%) of the "selling price" from the sales of tangible personal
property made in the course of business within the "special service area".
For the purpose of computing this tax, in no event shall the "selling price" be
less than the "cost price" to the "serviceman" of the tangible personal
property "transferred". The "selling price" of each item of tangible personal
property "transferred" as an incident of a "sale of service" may be shown as a
distinct and separate item on the "serviceman's" billing to the service
customer. If the "selling price" is not so shown, the "selling price" of the
tangible personal property is deemed to be fifty percent (50%) of the
"serviceman's" entire billing to the service customer. When, however, a
"serviceman" contracts to design, develop, and produce special order machinery
or equipment, the tax imposed by this subsection shall be based on the
"serviceman's cost price" of the tangible personal property "transferred"
incident to the completion of the contract.
At the election of any registered "serviceman" made for each fiscal year,
"sales of service" in which the aggregate annual "cost price" of tangible
personal property "transferred" as an incident to the "sales of service" is
less than thirty five percent (35%), or seventy five percent (75%) in the case
of "servicemen transferring" prescription drugs or "servicemen" engaged in
"graphic arts production", of the aggregate annual total "gross receipts" from
all "sales of service", the tax imposed by this subsection shall be based on
the "serviceman's cost price" of the tangible personal property "transferred"
incident to the sale of those services.
With respect to gasohol, as defined in the use tax act, 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 105/1, the tax imposed by this subsection shall apply to seventy
percent (70%) of the cost price of property transferred as an incident to the
sale of service on or after January 1, 1990, and before July 1, 2003, and to
one hundred percent (100%) of the cost price thereafter.
The tax shall be imposed at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) on food
prepared for immediate consumption and transferred incident to a sale of
service subject to this chapter or the Illinois service occupation tax act, 35
Illinois Compiled Statutes 115/1, by an entity licensed under the hospital
licensing act, 210 Illinois Compiled Statutes 85/1, the nursing home care act,
210 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1-101, or the child care act of 1969, 225
Illinois Compiled Statutes 10/1.
For purposes of this chapter, prepaid telephone calling arrangements shall be
considered tangible personal property subject to the tax imposed under this
subsection regardless of the form in which those arrangements may be embodied,
transmitted, or fixed by any method now known or hereafter developed.
Evidence that tangible personal property was sold by any "supplier" for
delivery to a "person" residing or engaged in business in the "special service
area" shall be prima facie evidence that such tangible personal property was
sold for the purpose of resale as an incident to a "sale of service" taxable
under this subsection.
   B.   A tax is imposed upon "persons" engaged in the business of selling at
retail tangible personal property (referred to as "retailers"), including
"computer software", and including photographs, negatives, and positives that
are the product of "photoprocessing", but not including products of
"photoprocessing" produced for use in motion pictures for public commercial
exhibition, within the "special service area". Unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, the tax imposed by this subsection is at the rate of one-half of
one percent (0.5%) of "gross receipts" from the "sales at retail" of personal
property made in the course of business within the "special service area".
With respect to gasohol, as defined in the use tax act, 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 105/1, the tax imposed by this subsection shall apply to seventy
percent (70%) of the proceeds of sales made on or after January 1, 1990, and
before July 1, 2003, and to one hundred percent (100%) of the cost price
thereafter.
For purposes of this chapter, prepaid telephone calling arrangements shall be
considered tangible personal property subject to the tax imposed under this
subsection regardless of the form in which those arrangements may be embodied,
transmitted, or fixed by any method now known or hereafter developed.
   C.   Except as provided in section
3-26-3 of this chapter, the taxes imposed by this section shall be imposed on
the same basis as the taxes imposed by the Illinois service occupation tax act
and the Illinois retailers' occupation tax act.
   D.   The taxes imposed by this section are not imposed on any business,
activity, act or privilege to the extent that such business, activity, act or
privilege may not, under the constitutions or statutes of the United States or
the state of Illinois, be made the subject of taxation by the "village".
   E.   The taxes imposed by this section are imposed in addition to all other
taxes imposed by the "village", the state of Illinois or any other municipal
corporation or political subdivision of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 08-19-56)
3-26-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Exempt from the tax imposed by subsection
3-26-2A of this chapter shall be those items of tangible personal property that
are exempt from taxation under the Illinois service occupation tax act. To the
extent a specific item of tangible personal property described in the Illinois
service occupation tax act is not defined in this chapter, such specific item
shall be given the same meaning under this chapter as given to that specific
item under the Illinois service occupation tax act. In addition, tangible
personal property "transferred" incident to the completion of a maintenance
agreement is exempt from the tax imposed by subsection
3-26-2A of this chapter.
   B.   Exempt from the tax imposed by subsection
3-26-2B of this chapter shall be the "gross receipts" from proceeds from the
sale of those items of tangible personal property that are exempt from taxation
under the Illinois retailers' occupation tax act. To the extent a specific item
of tangible personal property described in the Illinois retailers' occupation
tax act is not defined in this chapter, such specific item shall be given the
same meaning under this chapter as given to that specific item under the
Illinois retailers' occupation tax act.
   C.   Exempt from the tax imposed by subsection
3-26-2A of this chapter are those items of tangible personal property that are
exempt from taxation under the home rule municipal service occupation tax act.
To the extent a specific item of tangible personal property described in
section
8-11-5 of the home rule municipal service occupation tax act is not defined in
this chapter, such specific item shall be given the same meaning under this
chapter as given to that specific item under the home rule municipal service
occupation tax act.
   D.   Exempt from the tax imposed by subsection
3-26-2B of this chapter are those items of tangible personal property that are
exempt from taxation under the home rule municipal retailers' occupation tax
act. To the extent a specific item of tangible personal property described in
section
8-11-1 of the home rule municipal retailers' occupation tax act is not defined
in this chapter, such specific item shall be given the same meaning under this
chapter as given to that specific item under the home rule municipal retailers'
occupation tax act. (Ord. 08-19-56)
3-26-4: EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   "Gross Receipts": Any amount added to the "selling price" of tangible
personal property by the "retailer" because of the "village's" home rule
municipal retailers' occupation tax (see section
3-2-1 of this title), the Illinois retailers' occupation tax or the Illinois
use tax 1  and collected from the "purchaser", shall not be regarded as a part
of the "retailer's gross receipts" that are subject to the tax imposed by this
chapter.
   B.   "Selling Price": Any amount added by a "serviceman" to the "selling
price" of tangible personal property sold by the "serviceperson" as an incident
of a "sale of service" because of the "village's" home rule municipal service
occupation tax (see section
3-2-2 of this title), the Illinois service occupation tax or the Illinois
service use tax 2  and collected from the "purchaser", shall not be regarded as
a part of the "selling price" that is subject to the tax imposed by this
chapter. (Ord. 08-19-56)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
2 2. 35 ILCS 110/1 et seq.
3-26-5: PASSING ON THE TAX:
The legal incidence of the taxes imposed by this chapter is on the "retailer"
and the "serviceman". Nevertheless, the "village" authorizes "persons" subject
to the taxes imposed by this chapter to reimburse themselves for their tax
liability by separately stating such tax as an additional charge, which charge
may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with other state of Illinois
and "village" taxes that "retailers" and "servicemen" are required to collect
and remit to the state of Illinois and the "village". (Ord. 08-19-56)
3-26-6: COLLECTION:
   A.   The taxes hereby imposed by section
3-26-2 of this chapter, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected by the "village" treasurer through the
procedures described in section
3-26-7 of this chapter.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed by section
3-26-2 of this chapter shall be paid in addition to any and all other taxes.
The taxes hereby imposed by section
3-26-2 of this chapter shall be paid to the "village" treasurer by any
"serviceman transferring" tangible personal property as an incident to a "sale
of service" taxable under subsection
3-26-2A of this chapter and by any "retailer" making a sale of tangible
personal property taxable under subsection
3-26-2B of this chapter.
   C.   Any tax required to be paid pursuant to section
3-26-2 of this chapter shall constitute a debt owed by the "retailer" or the
"serviceman" to the "village". (Ord. 08-19-56)
3-26-7: FILING RETURNS AND REMITTANCE:
   A.   On or before the twentieth day of each month, every "retailer" and
"serviceman" maintaining a place of business within the "special service area"
shall file with the "village" treasurer a remittance return and remit all
applicable tax for the preceding calendar month. The return shall be filed on a
form prescribed by the "village" treasurer, containing such information as the
"village" treasurer may reasonably require.
   B.   Notwithstanding the monthly return requirement of subsection A of this
section, in the event that a "retailer" or "serviceman" maintaining a place of
business within the "special service area" would remit between fifty dollars
($50.00) and one hundred dollars ($100.00) in tax revenue to the "village" per
month, said "taxpayer" shall make a tax return as required on a semiannual,
rather than monthly, basis. Said returns shall be in compliance with subsection
A of this section, except that they shall cover the "sales of service" and the
"sales at retail" during the semiannual (6 month) period, and shall be filed on
or before March 20 and September 20 each year.
   C.   Notwithstanding the monthly return requirement of subsection A of this
section, in the event that a "retailer" or "serviceman" maintaining a place of
business within the "special service area" would remit less than fifty dollars
($50.00) in tax revenue to the "village" per month, said "taxpayer" shall make
a return as required on an annual, rather than monthly, basis. Said returns
shall be in compliance with subsection A of this section, except that they
shall cover "sales of service" and the "sales at retail" during the prior one
year (12 month) period, and shall be filed on or before March 20 each year.
   D.   Where such tangible personal property is sold under a conditional sales
contract, or under any other form of sale wherein the payment of the principal
sum, or a part thereof, is extended beyond the close of the period for which
the return is filed, the "retailer" or the "serviceman", in collecting the tax
may collect, for each tax return period, only the tax applicable to the part of
the "selling price" actually received during such tax return period. (Ord. 08-
19-56)
3-26-8: REGISTRATION:
Every "retailer" or "serviceman" maintaining a place of business within the
"special service register" with the "village" administrative services
department within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this chapter or
the date of becoming a "retailer" or "serviceman" within the "special service
area", whichever is later. (Ord. 08-19-56)
3-26-9: ADMINISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Every "retailer" engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property at retail in the "special service area", every "supplier" required or
authorized to collect the taxes hereunder and every "serviceman" making sales
of service within the "special service area" shall keep records and books of
all sales of tangible personal property, together with invoice bills of lading,
sales records, copies of bills of sale, inventories prepared as of December 31
of each year or otherwise annually as has been the custom in the specific trade
and other pertinent papers and documents. Every "retailer" who is engaged in
the business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the "special
service area", every "supplier" required or authorized to collect the taxes
hereunder and every "serviceman" making sales of service in the "special
service area" and who, in connection with such business, also engages in other
activities (including, but not limited to, engaging in a service occupation)
shall keep such additional records and books of all such activities as will
accurately reflect the character and scope of such activities and the amount of
receipts realized therefrom. The "village" may adopt rules that establish
requirements, including record forms and formats, for records required to be
kept and maintained by "taxpayers". For purposes of this section, "records"
means all data maintained by the "taxpayer", including data on paper,
microfilm, microfiche or any type of machine sensible data compilation. All
books and records and other papers and documents which are required by this
section shall be kept in the English language and shall, at all times during
business hours of the day, be subject to inspection by the "village" or its
duly authorized agents and employees.
   B.   To support deductions made on the tax return form, or authorized under
this chapter, on account of receipts from isolated or occasional sales of
tangible personal property, on account of receipts from sales of tangible
personal property for resale, on account of receipts from sales to governmental
bodies or other exempted types of "purchasers", on account of receipts from
sales of tangible personal property in interstate commerce, and on account of
receipts from any other kind of transaction that is not taxable under this
chapter, entries in any books, records or other pertinent papers or documents
of the "taxpayer" in relation thereto shall be in detail sufficient to show the
name and address of the "taxpayer's" customer in each such transaction, the
character of every such transaction, the date of every such transaction, the
amount of receipts realized from every such transaction and such other
information as may be necessary to establish the nontaxable character of such
transaction under this chapter.
   C.   Except in the case of a sale to a "purchaser" who will always resell
and deliver the property to his customers outside the "special service area",
anyone claiming that he has made a nontaxable sale for resale in some form as
tangible personal property shall also keep a record of the "purchaser's"
registration number or resale number with the "village".
   D.   It shall be presumed that all sales of tangible personal property are
subject to tax under this chapter until the contrary is established, and the
burden of proving that a transaction is not taxable hereunder shall be upon the
"retailer" or "serviceman" who would be required to remit the tax to the
"village" if such transaction is taxable. In the course of any audit or
investigation or hearing by the "village" with reference to a given "taxpayer",
if the "village" finds that the "taxpayer" lacks documentary evidence needed to
support the "taxpayer's" claim to exemption from tax hereunder, the "village"
is authorized to notify the "taxpayer" in writing to produce such evidence, and
the "taxpayer" shall have sixty (60) days, subject to the right of the
"village" to extend this period either on request for good cause shown or on
its own motion, from the date when such notice is sent to the "taxpayer" by
certified or registered mail (or delivered to the "taxpayer" if the notice is
served personally) in which to obtain and produce such evidence for the
"village's" inspection, failing which the matter shall be closed, and the
transaction shall be conclusively presumed to be taxable hereunder.
   E.   The "village's" director of administrative services, or any person so
certified as a deputy or representative, may inspect the books and records of a
"retailer" or "serviceman" required to pay either of the taxes levied by
section
3-26-2 of this chapter, and the purpose of such inspection shall be to ensure
the proper administration of said section and enforcement of the collection of
the tax imposed. It is unlawful for any "retailer" or "serviceman" to prevent,
hinder or interfere with the "village's" director of administrative services or
the duly authorized deputy or representative in the discharge of duties in the
enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 08-19-56)
3-26-10: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
In the event of failure by any "retailer" or "serviceman" to pay to the
"village" either of the taxes imposed by this chapter by the date the same
shall be due, interest shall accumulate at a rate as imposed by local
government taxpayers' bill of rights act located at chapter 18 of this title.
In addition, a penalty shall be assessed and collected against such "retailer"
or "serviceman" as imposed by the local government taxpayers' bill of rights
act located at chapter 18 of this title.
   A.   Whenever any "retailer" or "serviceman" shall fail to pay any tax as
herein provided, the "village" attorney shall, upon the request of the
"village" president and board of trustees, bring or cause to be brought an
action to enforce the payment of said tax on behalf of the "village" in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   If the "village president" or his/her designee, after hearing held,
shall find that such "retailer" or "serviceman" has wilfully avoided payment of
either of the taxes imposed by this chapter, the "village" president may
suspend or revoke all "village" licenses held by such tax evader. Such "person"
may have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held not less than
five (5) days after notice of the time and place of the hearing, said notice,
addressed to him at his last known place of business. Pending notice, hearing
and finding, any license which such "retailer" or "serviceman" may possess
shall be temporarily suspended by the "village" president. Any suspension or
revocation of any license shall not release or discharge such "retailer" or
"serviceman" from his/her/its civil liability for the payment of the tax nor
from prosecution for such offense.
   C.   The "taxpayer" shall be entitled to all rights under this chapter as
provided in the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act located at
chapter 18 of this title. (Ord. 08-19-56)
3-26-11: RESALE NUMBERS:
   A.   If the "purchaser" is not registered with the "village's"
administrative services department as a "taxpayer", but claims to be a reseller
of the tangible personal property in such a way that such resales are not
taxable under this chapter, such "purchaser" (except in the case of an out of
state "purchaser" who will always resell and deliver the property to his
customers outside Illinois) shall apply to the "village's" administrative
services department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which
will show the "village's" administrative services department why such applicant
is not liable for tax under this chapter on any of his resales and shall
furnish such additional information as the "village's" administrative services
department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the "village's" administrative
services department shall assign a resale number to the applicant and shall
certify such number to him. The "village's" administrative services department
may cancel any such number which is obtained through misrepresentation, or
which is used to make a purchase tax free when the purchase in fact is not a
purchase for resale, or which no longer applies because of the "purchaser's"
having discontinued the making of tax exempt resales of the property. The
"village's" administrative services department may restrict the use of the
number to one year at a time or to some other definite period if the
"village's" administrative services department finds it impracticable or
otherwise inadvisable to issue such numbers for indefinite periods.
   C.   Except as provided in this section, a "sale at retail" shall be made
tax free on the grounds of being a sale for resale if the "purchaser" has an
active registration number or resale number from the "village's" administrative
services department and furnishes that number to the seller in connection with
certifying to the seller that any sale to such "purchaser" is nontaxable
because of being a sale for resale. Failure to present an active registration
number or resale number and a certification to the seller that a sale is for
resale creates a presumption that a sale is not for resale. This presumption
may be rebutted by other evidence that all of the seller's sales are sale for
resale, or that a particular sale is a sale for resale. (Ord. 08-19-56)
3-26-12: PENALTY:
Any "retailer" or "serviceman" violating the provisions of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), for each offense. Each day a violation exists
shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 08-19-56)
CHAPTER 27
VEHICLE FUEL TAX
SECTION:
3-27-1: Definitions
3-27-2: Tax Imposed
3-27-3: Exemptions
3-27-4: Payment On Retail Purchase
3-27-5: Collection Of Tax
3-27-6: Registration
3-27-7: Filing Returns
3-27-8: Inventory Report
3-27-9: Use Of Vehicle Fuel Tax Monies
3-27-10: Recordkeeping
3-27-11: Commission On Tax
3-27-12: Sales And Uses Presumed Taxable
3-27-13: Failure To Pay Tax
3-27-14: Severability
3-27-15: Penalties For Violations
3-27-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
DISTRIBUTOR OR VEHICLE FUEL DISTRIBUTOR: Any person who produces, refines,
blends, compounds or manufactures vehicle fuel in the village; or transports or
has transported vehicle fuel to any location in the village; or receives in the
village vehicle fuel on which the village vehicle fuel tax has not been paid;
or sells vehicle fuel to a retail dealer for resale in the village. The term
"distributor" shall include any person who transports vehicle fuel into the
village for his own use and consumption, and not for sale or resale.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
corporation, joint venture, joint stock company, receiver, trustee,
conservator, legal representative, or other legally recognized entity.
RETAIL DEALER OR RETAIL FUEL DEALER: Any person who is engaged in the business
of selling vehicle fuel in the village to a purchaser for the purchaser's use
or consumption, and not for resale in any form.
SALE AT RETAIL: Any sale to a person for that person's use or consumption and
not for resale to another.
SALE, RESALE OR PURCHASE: Any transfer of ownership or title or both, any
exchange or any barter, whether conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by
any means whatsoever for consideration.
TAX: The village vehicle fuel tax provided for in this chapter.
USE: The exercise of any right to or power over vehicle fuel incident to the
ownership thereof, including, but not limited to, the receipt of vehicle fuel
by any person into a fuel supply tank of a vehicle.
VEHICLE: Any machine or device in, upon or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a rail, street, road, highway or otherwise
upon land, in or upon water, or through the air. The term "vehicle" includes,
without limitation, automobiles, trucks, buses, trains, motorcycles, boats,
airplanes and helicopters.
VEHICLE FUEL: Any volatile and flammable liquid or gas produced, blended or
compounded for the purpose of or which is suitable for operating a vehicle, or
which is used in propelling a vehicle. The term "vehicle fuel" includes,
without limitation, gasoline, gasohol, diesel oil, motor benzol, motor benzene,
propane gas fuel, kerosene and "special fuel" as defined in the motor fuel tax
law 1 .
VILLAGE: The village of Oak Lawn, Cook County, Illinois. (Ord. 10-05-07)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 505/1 et seq.
3-27-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of purchasing or using, in the
village, vehicle fuel purchased in a sale at retail. The tax shall be at a rate
of six cents ($0.06) per gallon of vehicle fuel. The ultimate incidence of and
liability for payment of the tax shall be upon the purchaser or user of the
vehicle fuel, and nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose a tax
upon the occupation of selling or distributing vehicle fuel. It shall be a
violation of this chapter for any distributor or retail fuel dealer to fail to
add this tax to the retail price of vehicle fuel to absorb the tax. The tax
shall be in addition to any and all other taxes. (Ords. 10-05-07, 20-05-09, 20-
11-27)
3-27-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall not apply to the following sales and uses
of vehicle fuel:
   A.   Sale by a distributor to another distributor holding a valid
registration certificate.
   B.   Sale by a distributor or retail fuel dealer whose place of business is
outside of the village.
   C.   Sale or use for purposes other than for propulsion or operation of a
vehicle.
   D.   Sale to or use by any transportation agency, as defined in the regional
transportation authority act 1 , which is operated by a grant from or has a
service agreement with the regional transportation authority or any of its
service boards.
   E.   Sale of or use of to the extent the tax imposed by this chapter would
violate the state or United States constitution.
   F.   Sale to or use by the federal government or any state or local
government body.
   G.   Sale to or use by any common carrier, certified by the carrier to be
used for consumption, shipment or storage in the conduct of its business as an
air common carrier, for a flight destination outside of the United States.
(Ord. 10-05-07)
 
Notes
1 1. 70 ILCS 3615/1.01 et seq.
3-27-4: PAYMENT ON RETAIL PURCHASE:
The term "use in the village" shall be deemed to occur only at the place in the
village where the vehicle fuel is transferred into the vehicle by which it is
to be consumed. To the extent that a person has paid the tax imposed by this
chapter on the retail purchase of vehicle fuel, he shall be exempt from the
payment of any liability for the tax in the use of such fuel. (Ord. 10-05-07)
3-27-5: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   The village vehicle fuel tax shall be collected by each vehicle fuel
distributor who sells such vehicle fuel to a retail fuel dealer doing business
in the village. Any distributor who shall pay the tax to the village shall
collect the tax from any retail fuel dealer to whom the distributor sells
vehicle fuel. The retail fuel dealer shall in turn then collect the tax from
the purchaser of the vehicle fuel. Any distributor who sells vehicle fuel
directly to a purchaser or user, for delivery in the village, and not for
resale, shall collect the tax from the purchaser or user.
   B.   If any retail fuel dealer receives vehicle fuel upon which the village
vehicle fuel tax has not been collected by the distributor, the retailer dealer
shall remit such tax directly to the village's director of administrative
services by the twentieth day of the month following the month in which he
received such vehicle fuel, and shall collect such tax from his purchasers.
   C.   If any purchaser or user of vehicle fuel receives vehicle fuel upon
which the village fuel tax has not been collected by the distributor or retail
fuel dealer, such purchaser or user shall pay the tax directly to the village
by the twentieth day of the month following the month in which such purchaser
or user made the taxable purchase or use of the vehicle fuel.
   D.   Any tax remittance required to be made directly to the village shall be
made to the village's treasurer and shall be accompanied by a remittance form
prescribed by the village's treasurer.
   E.   Any person who collects the village vehicle fuel tax shall do so as a
trustee for any on account of the village. (Ord. 10-05-07)
3-27-6: REGISTRATION:
Every vehicle fuel distributor doing business on March 1, 2010, shall register
with the village's treasurer on or before March 31, 2010. Every person becoming
a distributor after that date shall register with the village's treasurer
within thirty (30) days after the commencement of such business. (Ord. 10-05-
07)
3-27-7: FILING RETURNS:
Every distributor shall file by the twentieth day of each month with the
village treasurer a remittance return, containing a report of his sales of
vehicle fuel to retail dealers or users in the village occurring in the prior
months. The return shall be in a form prescribed by and furnished by the
village treasurer. If mailed, the return must be postmarked on or before the
twentieth day of the month following the month for which the report is due.
Each such return shall be accompanied by a remittance of the appropriate amount
of tax applicable to the sales reported. Payment shall be made to the village
treasurer. (Ord. 10-05-07)
3-27-8: INVENTORY REPORT:
By March 31, 2010, every retail fuel dealer shall file with the village
treasurer, on forms supplied by the village treasurer for that purpose; an
inventory of all vehicle fuel in the retail fuel dealer's possession on March
1, 2010, at one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. The owner or chief
executive officer of the retail dealer shall sign the inventory report and
attest under oath to its accuracy. With the inventory report, the retail dealer
shall pay to the village the village vehicle fuel tax due on the sale of all
vehicle fuel in the retail dealer's possession on March 1, 2010, at one minute
after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and for which such tax has not been collected
on behalf of the village by a vehicle fuel distributor. (Ord. 10-05-07)
3-27-9: USE OF VEHICLE FUEL TAX MONIES:
Monies collected pursuant to this chapter shall be used for capital
improvements, including, but not limited to: street and alley construction and
rehabilitation, curb and gutter work, storm sewer, bicycle lane markings and
paths, and other street related improvements and to provide revenues for
projects such as right of way and neighborhood revitalization, land
acquisitions, utility and water quality construction projects, and related
costs. All monies collected pursuant to this chapter shall be appropriated to
the newly created 2010 capital improvements BAB fund. (Ord. 10-05-07)
3-27-10: RECORDKEEPING:
Every distributor and every retail fuel dealer required to collect and remit
the tax imposed in this chapter shall keep accurate and complete books and
records of his business of selling vehicle fuel, including the maintenance of
all invoices and other source documents. Every purchaser or user shall keep
accurate and complete books and records of his purchase and uses of vehicle
fuel in the village, including the maintenance of all invoices and other source
documents. All books and records shall be subject to inspection by the village
treasurer, or his/her duly authorized agents or employees of the village, at
all times during regular business hours. (Ord. 10-05-07)
3-27-11: COMMISSION ON TAX:
A distributor or retail fuel dealer remitting the tax to the village shall be
entitled to a commission of one percent (1%) of the tax remitted, to compensate
for the cost of collection, filing returns, and supplying information to the
village treasurer, but in no event shall any commission be allowed on any tax
not remitted when due. (Ord. 10-05-07)
3-27-12: SALES AND USES PRESUMED TAXABLE:
It shall be presumed that all sales and uses of vehicle fuel in the village are
subject to tax under this chapter until the contrary is established. The burden
of proving that a sale or use is not taxable hereunder shall be upon the
distributor, retail fuel dealer, purchaser or user so claiming. (Ord. 10-05-07)
3-27-13: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
   A.   In the event of failure by any distributor, retail fuel dealer,
purchaser or user to pay to the village the tax imposed by this chapter by the
date the same shall be due, interest shall accumulate at a rate as imposed by
chapter 18, "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill Of Rights Act", of this title. In
addition, a penalty shall be assessed and collected against such distributor,
retail fuel dealer, purchaser or user as imposed by chapter 18, "Local
Government Taxpayers' Bill Of Rights Act", of this title.
   B.   Whenever any distributor, retail fuel dealer, purchaser or user shall
fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the village attorney shall, upon the
request of the village president and board of trustees, bring or cause to be
brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax on behalf of the village
in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   If the village president or his/her designee, after hearing held, shall
find that such distributor, retail fuel dealer, purchaser or user has wilfully
avoided payment of the tax imposed by this chapter, the village president may
suspend or revoke all village licenses held by such tax evader. Such person may
have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held not less than five
(5) days after notice of the time and place of the hearing, said notice,
addressed to him at his last known place of business. Pending notice, hearing
and finding, any license which such distributor, retail fuel dealer, purchaser
or user may possess shall be temporarily suspended by the village president.
Any suspension or revocation of any license shall not release or discharge such
distributor, retail fuel dealer, purchaser or user from his civil liability for
the payment of the tax nor from prosecution for such offense.
   D.   The distributor, retail fuel dealer, purchaser or user shall be
entitled to all rights under this chapter as provided in chapter 18, "Local
Government Taxpayers' Bill Of Rights Act", of this title. (Ord. 10-05-07)
3-27-14: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or the application of any provision thereof,
is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall not affect
other provisions of this chapter or their application, that can be given effect
without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its application. Each
unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such provision, is
severable, unless otherwise provided. (Ord. 10-05-07)
3-27-15: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any distributor, retail fuel dealer, purchaser or user violating the provisions
of this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), for each offense. (Ord. 10-05-
07)
CHAPTER 28
PARKING LOT AND GARAGE OPERATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-28-1: Short Title
3-28-2: Definitions
3-28-3: Tax Imposed
3-28-4: Rules And Regulations; Authorized; Publication
3-28-5: Inspection
3-28-6: Maintenance Of Records
3-28-7: Claim Checks To Be Issued
3-28-8: Tax Remittance And Returns
3-28-9: Tax To Be Paid To The Village's General Fund
3-28-10: Severability
3-28-11: Fines
3-28-12: Effective Date
3-28-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN PARKING
LOT AND GARAGE OPERATIONS TAX. (Ord. 12-01-05)
3-28-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, whenever any of the following words, terms or
definitions are used, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this
section:
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled.
OPERATOR: Any person conducting the operation of a "parking lot or garage", as
defined by this chapter, or receiving the consideration for parking or storage
of motor vehicles at such parking place.
PARKING LOT OR GARAGE: Any building, structure, premises, enclosure or other
place, whether enclosed or not, except a public way, within the village of Oak
Lawn, where four (4) or more motor vehicles are stored, housed or parked for
hire, charge, fee or other valuable consideration in a condition ready for use,
including valet parking or where rent or compensation is paid to the owner,
manager or lessee of the premises. Provided, however, that said terms shall not
include residential parking provided for single-family homes or multiple-family
dwelling units wherein an arrangement for such parking is provided on a rental
basis to meet the terms of the Oak Lawn village for off street parking, the
consideration therefor being set forth in the house or apartment lease or in a
separate writing between the landlord and the tenant, whether the parking
charge is payable to the landlord or to the operator of the parking lot or
garage, nor shall said terms include any parking lot or garage owned or
operated by the village of Oak Lawn.
PARKING SPACE: Any parking stall or space, clearly identified, marked with
customary striping lines designating an area set aside for the parking of a
single motor vehicle.
PERSON: Any natural person, trustee, court appointed representative, syndicate,
association, partnership, limited liability company, firm, club, company,
corporation, business trust, institution, agency, government corporation,
municipal corporation, district or other political subdivision, or any other
entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties.
VALET PARKING OPERATOR: A person who employs one or more attendants for the
purpose of providing a valet parking service or who contracts his own services,
but not in the capacity of employee, to any business establishment, for the
purpose of providing a valet parking service to such establishment in Oak Lawn.
VALET PARKING SERVICE: A parking service provided to accommodate patrons of any
business establishment, which service is incidental to the business of the
establishment and by which an attendant on behalf of the establishment takes
temporary custody of the patrons' motor vehicle and moves, parks, stores, or
retrieves the vehicle for the patrons' convenience. (Ord. 12-01-05)
3-28-3: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   There is imposed upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle
in or upon any parking lot or garage in the village of Oak Lawn a tax of one
dollar ($1.00) for each such motor vehicle parked in or upon each parking lot
or garage for which a fee or other valuable consideration is charged even if
the fee is ultimately waived by the operator.
   B.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on
the person who seeks the privilege of occupying space in or upon the parking
lot or garage (such person hereinafter referred to as the "recipient").
   C.   The tax imposed by this chapter shall not apply to residential off
street parking of house or apartment tenants or condominiums, wherein an
arrangement for such parking is provided in the house or apartment lease or in
a separate writing between the landlord and tenant, or if in a condominium
between the condominium association and the owner, occupant or guest of a unit,
whether the parking charge is payable to the landlord, condominium association,
or to the operation of the parking lot or garage.
   D.   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be paid in addition to any and
all other taxes. It shall be the duty of the operator or valet parking operator
of every parking lot or garage to secure the tax from the recipient of the
parking privilege upon each entry into the parking lot or garage for which a
fee or other valuable consideration is charged and to remit the tax to the
department of revenue under procedures prescribed by the village finance
director or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   E.   Valet parking operators are required to collect and remit the tax
imposed by this chapter, for each motor vehicle parked at a parking lot or
garage, as described in this chapter; however, the valet parking operator is
not required to remit the tax if the valet parking operator pays the tax to the
operator, who shall remit the tax to the village.
   F.   Every person required to collect the tax imposed by this chapter shall
secure the tax from the recipient at the time of the price, charge or rent to
which it applies is collected. If the recipient is given any invoice, receipt
or other statement of the price, charge or rent paid or payable, the tax shall
be stated, charged and shown separately on the document. (Ord. 12-01-05)
3-28-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS; AUTHORIZED; PUBLICATION:
The village's finance director is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce
rules and regulations pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this
chapter. Those rules may also be enforced by the village manager or his or her
designee. (Ord. 12-01-05)
3-28-5: INSPECTION:
The director of finance, or any person certified by the director or
representative, may enter the premises of any parking lot or garage during
normal business hours for inspection and examination of books and records for
the proper administration of this chapter and enforcement of the collection of
the tax imposed. It is unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere
with the director of finance or the duly authorized deputy or representative in
the discharge of duties in the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 12-01-05)
3-28-6: MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every person operating a parking lot or garage
in the village to keep accurate and complete books and records to which the
director of finance, or a representative authorized by the director of finance,
shall have full access, during normal business hours, which records shall
include a daily sheet showing the number of vehicles parked in or on each
parking lot or garage space for which a parking fee has been collected; and the
actual parking lot or garage tax receipts collected from all parking
transactions. For purposes of complying with the provisions of this subsection,
cash register, coin counter, and computer printout data providing the required
information shall be construed as an acceptable accounting method.
   B.   All books and records required by this section shall be retained for at
least four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in which they are
created; provided, however, that an operator on an annual basis may request
approval from the village finance director to discard tickets or tags that were
issued more than one year earlier and the director shall grant such approval if
he or she determines that the operator's books and records satisfy the
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 12-01-05)
3-28-7: CLAIM CHECKS TO BE ISSUED:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every person operating a parking lot or garage
in the village to issue to the owner or driver parking any motor vehicle in a
parking space, a distinctive ticket claim check or sticker ("ticket").
   B.   The ticket shall bear the date and time of issuance and shall be
accounted for in numerical sequence. Each ticket shall contain the name and
address of the operator of the parking lot or garage upon which parking space
the motor vehicles are parked.
   C.   No person shall operate a "parking lot or garage" as defined in this
chapter without first submitting to the director of finance samples of the
tickets showing the starting and ending numbers, the parking lot or garage
location, and the color and sizes of the tickets; or in the alternative, an
operator may install an automatic entry gate system utilizing sequentially
numbered ticket dispensing device, which system shall provide the director of
finance with printout register and/or statistical information sufficient to
determine parking space usage, which system may be substituted for preprinted
tickets.
   D.   No person shall operate a parking lot or garage in the village in which
parking is permitted on a weekly, monthly or other basis, without requiring the
placement of a sticker upon said motor vehicle, which sticker shall show the
name of the operator and address of the parking lot or garage upon which the
motor vehicle is parked, an identification number in sequence to be placed on
motor vehicle so to be parked the number of the license plate of the motor
vehicle so to be parked and the issuing state; and an indication as to whether
parking is on a weekly or monthly, or other basis, indicating starting and
ending dates of the week, month or other period.
   E.   A sample of the weekly, monthly or other period stickers printed for
the operator shall be submitted to the director of finance for recording and
said operator shall keep a book record of all such stickers issued, showing the
serial number, date, license number of the motor vehicle and the parking charge
imposed. The operator shall remove or cause to be removed and voided said
sticker at the end of the week, month, or other period, and shall cause the
placement of a new sticker upon the motor vehicle at the beginning of each new
period with recordation thereof also placed in the operator's book.
   F.   Or, in the alternative to subsections D and E of this section, the
operator may install a key card system utilizing automatic gates for exiting
purposes, in which event the operator shall provide the director of finance on
or before the thirtieth day of each month during the operation of the parking
lot or garage, a current list of the key cards purchased the previous month,
which card shall contain an identification number, and the amount of tax
assessed as provided in this chapter. Computer printout data or register tape
(as the case may be) shall constitute sufficient evidence of key card purchases
and the appropriate amount of tax assessed.
   G.   Any operator that fails to issue or attach one or more tickets, tags or
receipts in the form or manner provided by this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each motor vehicle to which a ticket, tag or receipt in the
proper form was not issued or upon which a ticket tag was not attached. (Ord.
12-01-05)
3-28-8: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURNS:
   A.   On or before the last day of each calendar month, every operator shall
file with the department of revenue a remittance and remit all tax due for the
preceding calendar month. The return shall be filed on a form prescribed by the
finance director, containing such information as the finance director may
reasonably require.
   B.   In addition to any other information required by the finance director,
every operator shall report on the remittance return the total amount of
charges collected from recipients during the preceding calendar month for the
privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon a parking lot or garage located
in the village of Oak Lawn. (Ord. 12-01-05)
3-28-9: TAX TO BE PAID TO THE VILLAGE'S GENERAL FUND:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this chapter,
including penalties and interest, shall be paid into village's general fund and
shall be credited to and deposited in the village's general fund. (Ord. 12-01-
05)
3-28-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter and the
application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances shall be
affected thereby. (Ord. 12-01-05)
3-28-11: FINES:
Any person determined to have violated this chapter, as amended, shall be
subject to a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the first offense,
and a fine of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for the second and each
subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offenses shall be regarded as
committed each day upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or
permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof. It shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter for any person to knowingly furnish false or
inaccurate information to the village. (Ord. 12-01-05)
3-28-12: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall be effective as of March 1, 2012. (Ord.
12-01-05)
CHAPTER 29
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
3-29-1: Definition
3-29-2: License Required
3-29-3: Application
3-29-4: Restrictions On Licenses
3-29-5: License Fees
3-29-6: Number Of Licenses
3-29-7: Penalties
3-29-8: Terminal Operators’ Tax
3-29-8.1: Tax Additional
3-29-8.2: Rules
3-29-8.3: Payment And Accounting
3-29-8.4: Failure To Pay Tax
3-29-8.5: Penalties
3-29-8.6: Severability
3-29-1: DEFINITION:
All words and phrases used in this section and not otherwise defined herein,
which are defined in the Video Gaming Act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/
1 et seq., shall have the meaning accorded to such words and phrases in said
Act. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms used in this
section shall be construed according to the following definitions:
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT: Any licensed retail establishment where alcoholic
liquor is drawn, poured, mixed, or otherwise served for consumption on the
premises, whether the establishment operates on a nonprofit or for-profit
basis.
TERMINAL OPERATOR: An individual, partnership, corporation, or limited
liability company that is licensed under this Act and that owns, services, and
maintains video gaming terminals for placement in licensed establishments,
licensed truck stop establishments, licensed fraternal establishments, or
licensed veterans establishments.
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video game machine that, upon insertion
of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is available
to play or simulate the play of a video game, including but not limited to
video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the Board as utilizing a
video display and microprocessors in which the player may receive free games or
credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does not include a machine that
directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for amusement purposes only.
(Ord. 17-09-19)
3-29-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall display, operate or otherwise permit the use of any video
gaming terminal without first obtaining a license from the Village upon payment
of a license fee. (Ord. 17-09-19)
3-29-3: APPLICATION:
Applications for a video gaming license shall be made to the Business Licensing
Administrator upon a form to be supplied by the Village and shall contain the
following information:
   A.   Name and address of the applicant, age, date and place of birth;
   B.   Prior convictions, if any, of applicant;
   C.   Place where the video gaming terminal is to be displayed or operated,
and the business conducted at that place;
   D.   Number of video gaming terminals to be displayed or operated;
   E.   Description of video gaming terminal to be covered by the license,
mechanical features and serial number;
   F.   Copy of a valid Illinois Gaming Board license;
   G.   Copy of a valid Illinois liquor license;
   H.   Copy of a valid Village of Oak Lawn liquor license; and
   I.   Such other information as the Village may determine as necessary as set
forth in the application form. (Ord. 17-09-19)
3-29-4: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES:
All such video gaming terminals shall at all times be kept, placed, operated
and monitored in accordance with State laws, applicable regulations and
applicable provisions of this Code including, but not limited to:
   A.   All applicants for video gaming license shall be ineligible for such
license for those reasons set forth in section
3-3-5 of this title;
   B.   A valid Village video gaming license must be clearly displayed at the
licensed establishment at all times;
   C.   No more than five (5) video gaming terminals may be located or placed
on a licensed establishment;
   D.   Video gaming terminals shall be placed in an area restricted to persons
twenty one (21) years of age or over;
   E.   Prohibiting persons under the age of twenty one (21) years and persons
who are visibly intoxicated from entering or remaining in the gaming area;
   F.   The video gaming area shall be physically monitored at all times during
the legal hours of operation by an employee over twenty one (21) years of age;
and
   G.   The operation of the video gaming terminals shall only be allowed
during the legal hours of operation allowed for the consumption of alcoholic
beverages at the licensed establishment as consistent with section
3-3-6 of this title pertaining to liquor control. The suspension or revocation
of a licensee's liquor license shall result in the automatic suspension or
revocation of the licensee's video gaming license without refund of any portion
of the license fee and without the requirement of any further action by the
Village.
   H.   The cancellation, suspension, or revocation of a licensee's Illinois
Gaming Board license shall result in the automatic cancellation, suspension, or
revocation of the licensee's video gaming license without refund of any portion
of the license fee and without the requirement of any further action by the
Village. (Ord. 17-09-19)
3-29-5: LICENSE FEES:
   For each license year (July 1 through June 30), the per terminal video game
terminal operator fee set forth in Section
3-1-1-7 of this Code must be paid for each terminal on the licensed premises.
(Ords. 17-09-19, 19-28-94, 25-12-37)
3-29-6: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The number of video gaming licenses authorized to be issued to licensed
establishments shall be amended from time to time by the Village President and
Board of Trustees and on record of the Village Clerk. Any video gaming license
that lapses or is revoked for any reason shall automatically reduce the number
of authorized video gaming licenses. (Ord. 17-09-19)
3-29-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: The Village President/Local Liquor
Commissioner or his or her designee shall have the power to suspend for not
more than thirty (30) days or revoke any video gaming license issued under the
provisions of this chapter for cause, or if he/she determines that the licensee
shall have violated any of the provisions of this Code, any of the statutes of
the State or any other valid ordinance or resolution enacted by the President
and Board of Trustees of the Village. However, no such license shall be revoked
or suspended except after the holding of a public hearing by the Village
President/Local Liquor Commissioner or his or her designee. Ten (10) days'
notice of the hearing shall be given to the licensee. Alternatively, licensees
shall have the opportunity to engage in a prehearing conference and agree to
negotiated penalties rather than proceed to a hearing.
   B.   Fine Imposed: In addition, any licensee violating the provisions of
this chapter shall be fined not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for
each violation. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation. (Ords. 17-09-19, 19-16-63)
3-29-8: TERMINAL OPERATORS' TAX:
A tax is imposed for the privilege of operating a video gaming terminal within
the Village upon the terminal operator of a video gaming terminal at a rate of
one cent ($0.01) per play on a video gaming terminal. (Ord. 21-11-58)
3-29-8.1: TAX ADDITIONAL:
The tax imposed in this Section is in addition to all other taxes imposed by
the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or political subdivision
thereof. (Ord. 21-11-58)
3-29-8.2: RULES:
The Village is authorized to adopt, promulgate, and enforce any additional
rules and regulations pertaining to the interpretation, collection,
administration, and enforcement of this Section. (Ord. 21-11-58)
3-29-8.3: PAYMENT AND ACCOUNTING:
By the 20th day of each month payment of the tax for the preceding month shall
be remitted to the Village along with a completed tax return form as prescribed
by the Village. It shall be deemed a violation of this Chapter for any person
to knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the Village.
A terminal operator of any video gaming terminal(s) shall be subject to audit,
inspection, and record keeping provisions of this Code. It shall be unlawful
for any terminal operator and/or person to prevent, hinder, or interfere with
the Village's officials, employees, and/or agents designated to discharge their
respective duties in the performance and enforcement of the provisions of this
Chapter. It is the duty of every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal
(s) to keep accurate and complete books and records to which the Village's
officials, employees, and/or agents will at all times have full access. (Ord.
21-11-58)
3-29-8.4: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
   A.   In the event of failure by a terminal operator to pay to the village
the tax imposed by this chapter by the date the same shall be due, interest
shall accumulate at a rate as imposed by chapter 18, "Local Government
Taxpayers' Bill Of Rights Act", of this title. In addition, a penalty shall be
assessed and collected against such distributor, retail fuel dealer, purchaser
or user as imposed by chapter 18, "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill Of Rights
Act", of this title.
   B.   Whenever any terminal operator shall fail to pay any tax as herein
provided, the village attorney shall, upon the request of the village president
and board of trustees, bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the
payment of said tax on behalf of the village in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   C.   If the village president or his/her designee, after hearing held, shall
find that such terminal operator has failed to make payment of the tax imposed
by this chapter, the village president may suspend or revoke all village
licenses held by such tax evader. Such terminal operator may have an
opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held not less than ten (10) days
after notice of the time and place of the hearing, said notice, addressed to
him at his last known place of business. Pending notice, hearing and finding,
any license which terminal operator may possess may be temporarily suspended by
the village president. Any suspension or revocation of any license shall not
release or discharge such terminal from his civil liability for the payment of
the tax nor from prosecution for such offense.
   D.   A terminal operator user shall be entitled to all rights under this
chapter as provided in chapter 18, "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill Of Rights
Act", of this title. (Ord. 21-11-58)
3-29-8.5: PENALTIES:
Any terminal operator violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00), for each offense. Each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 21-11-58)
3-29-8.6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this section or the application of any provision thereof,
is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall not affect
other provisions of this section or their application, that can be given effect
without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its application. Each
unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such provision, is
severable, unless otherwise provided. (Ord. 21-11-58)
CHAPTER 30
SELF-STORAGE FACILITY ACCOMMODATIONS TAX
(Rep. by Ord. 20-03-08)
CHAPTER 31
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS AND VEHICLES
SECTION:
3-31-1: Definitions
3-31-2: License Required
3-31-3: Application For License
3-31-4: Issuance Of License
3-31-5: License
3-31-6: Inspection
3-31-7: Vehicle Requirements/Restrictions
3-31-8: Operation Requirements
3-31-9: Operation Location
3-31-10: Insurance Requirement
3-31-11: Vehicle Storage
3-31-12: Parking Restrictions
3-31-13: License Limitations
3-31-14: Food Sanitation Regulations
3-31-15: Prohibited Acts
3-31-16: Revocation Of License
3-31-17: Penalties
3-31-1: DEFINITIONS:
HEALTH INSPECTOR: The person meeting the qualifications of licensed
environmental health practitioner as defined by the Illinois Department of
Professional Regulations and designated to enforce health regulations pursuant
to the ordinances of the Village of Oak Lawn.
MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE: A fully enclosed motorized mobile vehicle in which ready-
to-eat food is cooked, wrapped, packaged, processed, or portioned for service,
sale, or distribution.
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: The owner of a mobile food vehicle or the owner's agent,
who, by traveling from place to place upon the public ways, prepares and serves
food from a mobile food vehicle for sale or distribution. (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person who does not possess a valid, current
license from the Village to operate a mobile food vehicle, preparing, storing,
or selling any food. (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application for license shall be made upon a form provided by the
Village Clerk. The applicant shall, under oath state in full the following:
      1.   Applicant's name, address, phone number and birth date.
      2.   Name of business or organization, address, phone number and state
where business is incorporated (if applicable).
      3.   Name, address, phone number and driver's license number of an owner,
manager or operator, and agents that will conduct activity which is subject of
the license.
      4.   Name of approved commercial supply source.
      5.   Description of preparation methods and food products offered for
sale, including the menu, display, and distribution containers.
      6.   The anticipated volume of food to be stored, prepared, and sold.
      7.   Plans and specifications for the mobile food vehicle, including the
proposed layout, photographs, mechanical schematics, construction materials,
equipment types, dimensions, power source, installation specifications, and
information on any custom fabricated equipment.
      8.   A valid copy of all necessary licenses or permits required by State
Health or Department of Motor Vehicles. This includes proof of food handler
certification training or valid Illinois Food Services Sanitation Manager
Certification as required by the Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act.
During all times of operation in the Village, at least one certified trained
food handler or someone holding a Food Service Sanitation Manager Certificate
must be present on the vehicle.
      9.   Number of employees.
      10.   Dates on which previous licenses were issued by the Village and
information regarding revocation of prior business licenses, if applicable.
      11.   Information regarding any convictions of applicant mobile food
vendor or any agent, for violating any Village business regulation, or any
State Statute regarding the subject matter of the license.
      12.   A signed statement that the mobile food vendor will not serve
alcohol.
      13.   A signed statement that the mobile food vendor shall hold harmless
the Village and its officers, employees, and agents and shall indemnify and
defend the Village and its officials, employees, and agents against any and all
claims related to the vendor's operations pursuant to the license.
      14.   Any other information deemed reasonable and necessary by the
Village in furtherance of this chapter.
   B.   A license issued under this chapter shall be three hundred dollars
($300.00). (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   The Village shall give priority to those applicants which maintain a
Village business license or are members of the Oak Lawn Chamber of Commerce at
the time of application submission.
   B.   The Department of Community Development, upon receipt of a properly
completed application, but in no event later than thirty (30) days after the
receipt of the application, shall either issue a license or notify the
applicant, in writing, that the application has been denied because:
      1.   The applicant has failed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter; or
      2.   The applicant, owner, manager or operator has, within the previous
year, been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
its predecessor, or the ordinance of any other municipality, or State or
Federal Statute. (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-5: LICENSE:
Each license issued under this chapter shall be valid from the month of June to
October of the year received, unless further authorized in the discretion of
the Village Manager. For calendar year 2019, there shall be six (6) available
licenses to operate a mobile food vehicle from June to October.
The Village Manager may, in his discretion, approve a license subject to the
standards and procedures described herein, to an applicant for a limited use.
An application must be submitted to the Village at least fourteen (14) calendar
days before an applicant submits an application for any event in which a mobile
food vehicle shall be present.
Each license shall be valid for only one vehicle. (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-6: INSPECTION:
Prior to the issuance of any license pursuant to this chapter, the health
inspector shall inspect every mobile food truck. If necessary, upon complaint
or direction by the Village, the health inspector may conduct additional
inspections until violations are corrected.
One copy of the inspection report shall be given to the mobile food vendor and
shall be placed conspicuously on the exterior of the mobile food truck. The
health inspector will retain a copy of the report on file at the Village.
The health inspector shall be given specific power to make inspections and for
that purpose enter all vehicles to enforce the environmental health laws of the
Village and to that end make such orders, requirements, decisions, and
determinations as are necessary to the enforcement of applicable environmental
health laws.
Application for the current season shall be received thirty (30) days prior to
Farmers' Market.
   A.   Procedure For Investigations: Upon the receipt of an application for a
license, the Department of Community Development shall schedule an inspection
with the health inspector within forty eight (48) hours of the time of such
receipt. The health inspector shall make the investigation or inspection and
shall make a report thereof favorable or otherwise, within ten (10) days after
receiving the application or a copy thereof.
      1.   The health inspector under the direction of the Director of
Community Development shall make or cause to be made all inspections in
connection with such licenses for the protection of health, the care and
handling of food and the prevention of nuisances and of the spread of disease.
      2.   The Fire Department shall make inspections relative to fire hazards.
      3.   All other investigations, except where otherwise provided, shall be
made by the Chief of Police or by some officer designated by the Manager.
   B.   Inspections, Analyses:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the mobile food vendor to allow inspection
of the mobile food vehicle prior to the receipt of any license and allow the
health inspector to make such inspection, or any officer or employee of the
Village who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable
time that admission is requested.
      2.   It shall be the duty of any mobile food vendor to give to the health
inspector or any authorized officer or employee of the Village requesting an
inspection of the same, sufficient samples of such goods to be sold or
distributed.
      3.   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the
President may revoke the license or permit of any person who refuses to permit
the health inspector or any officer or employee who is authorized to make such
inspection or take such sample to make the inspection or take an adequate
sample of the desired goods to be sold or distributed or who interferes with
such officer or employee while in the performance of his duty in making such
inspection. Provided that no license or permit shall be revoked for such cause
unless written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the
premises, in the name of the Village, stating that such inspection or sample is
desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or obtain the sample.
   C.   Food Safety:
      1.   All mobile food vehicles shall be kept in clean and sanitary
condition.
      2.   All food storage, preparation, and distribution food and vehicle
equipment must meet applicable Illinois Department of Public Health standards
and requirements, as well as standards determined by the Village.
      3.   All food, beverages, ice, and other materials sold or used in
preparation of goods to be sold must be obtained from a commercial source
approved by the health inspector.
      4.   All food preparation and food storage that is not done in the mobile
food vehicle should be done at a Village licensed food establishment.
      5.   All waste liquids, garbage, litter, and refuse shall be kept in
leak-proof, nonabsorbent containers which shall be kept covered with tight-
fitting lids and properly disposed of at an affiliated licensed restaurant. No
waste liquids, garbage, litter, or refuse shall be dumped or drained into
sidewalks, streets, gutters, drains, sewers, and trash receptacles other than
agreed locations by the Village. A garbage receptacle shall be easily
accessible for customer use. Vendor shall be responsible for all litter and
garbage left by customers.
   D.   Fee: An inspection fee under this chapter shall be sixty dollars
($60.00). (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-7: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS/RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   All vehicles used as mobile food vehicles shall meet the following
requirements to be determined by a health inspection by the Village before a
license shall be issued.
      1.   The vehicle shall be enclosed with top and sides.
      2.   The interior floor, walls and ceiling of each vehicle shall be of
smooth, not readily corrodible, impervious material capable of withstanding
repeated washing and scrubbing and shall be finished in a light color. Each
vehicle shall be well painted, in good repair, in good sanitary condition and
shall not be used for other purpose except as provided in this chapter.
      3.   The service sections of the vehicle shall be insect and rodent
proof.
      4.   The name, address, and mobile food license number shall appear on
both sides of the vehicles in letters three inches (3") in height, in
contrasting color.
      5.   All service equipment utilized in the mobile dispenser shall be of
easily cleanable construction and shall be maintained in good repair and shall
be clean. (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-8: OPERATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All mobile food vehicles shall only operate at designated areas within
the Village, as set forth in this chapter and described on the license.
   B.   No mobile food dispenser shall be equipped with any electronic sound
amplifying device, lights, or noisemakers.
   C.   Sales shall be made from such vehicles only during daylight hours and
not before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and shall conclude by ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M.
   D.   No sale shall be made from such a vehicle except from the vehicle
thereof and only when such vehicle is legally parked.
   E.   All such vehicles must meet the equipment and safety standards set by
the Illinois Department of Transportation. In addition, all operators of such
vehicles must have a valid Illinois driver's license.
   F.   There shall be no use of detached signage, seating, or any other
equipment not contained within the vehicle.
   G.   Any power required for the mobile food vehicle located on a public way
shall be self-contained and shall not use utilities drawn from the public
right-of-way. No power cable or equipment shall be extended at grade across any
Village street or sidewalk.
   H.   All identifying information, logos, advertising, decorations, or other
displays on the exterior of the vehicle of a mobile food vehicle shall conform
to the Village's Sign Ordinance regulating commercial signage. (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-9: OPERATION LOCATION:
Any license approved pursuant to this chapter shall state the location in which
the mobile food vendor may operate the mobile food vehicle. (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-10: INSURANCE REQUIREMENT:
Mobile food vendor must provide the Village with a certificate of insurance
showing comprehensive general liability coverage for property damage and
physical injury in the aggregate amount of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) as well as evidence of automobile insurance required by the State
for operation of the vehicle. The certificate of insurance must state that the
insurer shall notify the Village thirty (30) days before cancelling or revising
the policy. (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-11: VEHICLE STORAGE:
The mobile food vendor shall provide name and address where the mobile food
vehicle is to be stored.
The mobile food vendor shall provide the name, address, and frequency of any
cleaning, service, and maintenance to be performed on the mobile food vehicle.
All food service equipment needs to be of commercial grade and meet standards
regarding safe design, nontoxic materials, intended use and workmanship
established by one of the recognized accredited agencies for food service
equipment. (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-12: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
All mobile food vehicles shall be parked only within the designated areas
prescribed in this chapter or listed on the license. (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-13: LICENSE LIMITATIONS:
In the interest of preserving public safety and to avoid traffic congestion,
the Village of Oak Lawn, may from time to time, by rule, set a limit on the
number of total licenses available under this chapter. (There shall be a limit
of 6 licenses available pursuant to this chapter.) (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-14: FOOD SANITATION REGULATIONS:
The current and subsequent editions of the Illinois Food Service Administrative
Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 750), as amended from time to time and promulgated by
the Illinois Department of Public Health, are hereby adopted by reference.
The health inspector shall maintain a record of approved food and beverage
items which may be prepared and sold by mobile food vehicle vendors. Requests
to have a food or beverage item considered for approval shall be submitted in
writing to the health inspector, who shall determine whether the food or
beverage item is capable of preparation and service from the mobile food
vehicle based on the equipment being used and the design and construction of
the vehicle. (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-15: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No person shall engage in the operation as a mobile food vendor in any area
within the Village other than areas specifically prescribed by the Village.
No mobile food vendor shall interfere with either vehicular or pedestrian
traffic on any public right-of-way. (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-16: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any business operating in violation of the Illinois Food Service Sanitation
Code or any provision of this Code, may have their business license revoked or
suspended if the health inspector or the Village deems that the conditions
constitute an imminent hazard to public health.
Any license or registration under this chapter may be revoked by the Village
President because of any violation of this chapter or of any other ordinance of
the Village, or of any State or Federal law, but not before the licensee or
registrant has been given at least three (3) days' notice and an opportunity to
be heard by the Village Manager on the issue of whether said license or
registration should be revoked. (Ord. 19-05-08)
3-31-17: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), for each offense. In addition to said fine, any violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter may be grounds for revocation of any license
issued by the Village to any such violator, and in relation to the revocation
provisions provided herein. (Ord. 19-05-08)
CHAPTER 32
INDUSTRIAL HEMP
SECTION:
3-32-1: Purpose
3-32-2: Definitions
3-32-3: Licensing Authority
3-32-4: License Required
3-32-5: Licensing Eligibility
3-32-6: License Fee
3-32-7: Application For License
3-32-8: Issue Of License
3-32-9: Terms Of License
3-32-10: Unlawful Acts
3-32-11: Classes Of Licenses Authorized
3-32-12: Records And Reports
3-32-13: Prohibited Locations
3-32-14: Signs And Advertising
3-32-15: Change Of Location, Modification
3-32-16: Revocation Of License
3-32-17: Penalties
3-32-18: Taxation
3-32-19: Incorporation Of Industrial Hemp Pilot Program
3-32-1: PURPOSE:
The Village of Oak Lawn, in order to promote, protect, and safeguard the public
health, safety, and welfare of its residents and to enable an accurate record
of commercial establishments located, and carrying on commercial activities or
commerce, in the Village, adopts this chapter in response to the United States
congressional approval of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, commonly
known as the 2018 Farm Bill, which legalized the cultivation, transportation,
and sale of industrial hemp. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-2: DEFINITIONS:
INDUSTRIAL HEMP: Means the plant of the genus cannabis sativa L., and any part
of such plant, whether growing or not, containing less than 0.3 percent
Tetrahydrocannabinol ("THC") on a dry weight basis, available upon heating, or
maximum delta-9 TCHO content possible, commonly known as Cannabidiol or CBD.
INDUSTRIAL HEMP ESTABLISHMENT: Means any licensed commercial establishment
located within the Village where industrial hemp is offered for sale at retail
by a seller to a consumer.
MARIJUANA: Means all parts of the plant of the genus cannabis whether growing
or not, the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant, and
every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the
plant, its seeds, or its resin, including marijuana concentrate. Marijuana does
not include industrial hemp.
OWNER: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in an industrial
hemp establishment to maintain and manage its operation.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity.
RETAIL SALE: Means any sale to any person for use or consumption, and not for
resale.
USE: Means when an industrial hemp establishment sells industrial hemp. (Ord.
19-06-10)
3-32-3: LICENSING AUTHORITY:
All industrial hemp establishments and owners thereof, with a building or
premises in the Village shall file with the Village Clerk, an application for a
license to operate an industrial hemp establishment no later than May 30 of
each year or at such time as the commercial establishment desires to commence
operation in the Village. Application forms for such license shall be made
available by the Village Clerk. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating an
industrial hemp establishment and/or any industrial hemp enterprise as herein
enumerated or as otherwise provided without having first obtained a license.
(Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-5: LICENSING ELIGIBILITY:
   A.   No certificate for the operation of an industrial hemp establishment in
the Village shall be issued if one or more of the following conditions is
determined by the Village Manager, or such officer as may be designated by the
Village Manager, to exist:
      1.   The building or premises of the industrial hemp establishment does
not comply with the provisions of the Building Code, zoning title, fire
regulations, health regulations, or with all ordinances and regulations of the
Village.
      2.   The building or premises of the industrial hemp establishment is in
a condition of being unsanitary or unsafe so as to endanger the public safety,
health, or welfare of the Village and its residents.
      3.   The owner of the industrial hemp establishment or such legal entity
controlling the industrial hemp establishment is indebted to the Village. (Ord.
19-06-10)
3-32-6: LICENSE FEE:
A license issued under this chapter shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-7: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   An application for a license shall be made upon a form provided by the
Village Clerk and shall include such supplemental materials as provided in this
chapter and required by the State including but not limited to, disclosures
related to ownership of the proposed business, fingerprints of the applicants,
building plans, floor plans designating the proposed licensed premises outlined
in red, security plans, and a community engagement and/or neighborhood outreach
plan that includes at a minimum the following information:
      1.   The name, telephone number, and email address of the person
affiliated with the applicant who is responsible for the neighborhood outreach
and engagement;
      2.   An outreach plan to contact and engage residents and businesses in
the local neighborhoods where any licensed industrial hemp establishment is
located;
      3.   Written policies to timely address any concerns or complaints
expressed by residents and businesses within the neighborhood surrounding the
licensed industrial hemp establishment;
      4.   An area map drawn to scale indicating land uses within a three
hundred foot (300') radius of proximity to any school, childcare establishment,
cemetery, public park, forest preserve, public housing, or any other retail
industrial hemp establishment. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-8: ISSUE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Subject to the standards and procedures of this chapter, the Village
Manager and/or his designee shall issue a license to an eligible applicant
following an investigation of the applicant's premises and a review of any
report pertaining to the investigation by the following departments:
      1.   Health and Sanitation Officer;
      2.   Fire and Police Departments; and
      3.   Building Department. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-9: TERMS OF LICENSE:
   A.   All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid for a
period of one year from the date of issuance. Any renewal of a license shall be
governed by the standards and procedures provided in this chapter.
   B.   If the licensee has received notice of violation of any law or
regulations, including disciplinary action against any past or current license,
the application for renewal shall include a copy of the notice of disciplinary
action. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-10: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person to conduct any of the
following activities:
      1.   Sell industrial hemp products at licensed industrial hemp
establishment at any time other than between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. daily;
      2.   Offer for sale and/or distribution industrial hemp at any location
other than the licensed premises;
      3.   Deliver industrial hemp to any person other than the licensed
premises;
      4.   The transfer of ownership of any license issued pursuant to this
chapter;
      5.   Sell marijuana or any product containing marijuana at any industrial
hemp establishment or at any other location;
      6.   Sell any food or beverage which contains either industrial hemp and/
or marijuana. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-11: CLASSES OF LICENSES AUTHORIZED:
   A.   For the purpose of regulating the cultivation, manufacture, testing,
transportation, storage, distribution, offer for sale, and sale of industrial
hemp, the Village at the Village's discretion, upon application in the
prescribed form made to the Village, may issue and grant the applicant a local
license for any of the following classes, subject to the provisions set forth
in this chapter:
      1.   Retail industrial hemp establishment;
      2.   Retail industrial hemp cultivation license. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-12: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
A licensee must provide on-demand access to on-premises records following a
request from the Village Manager during normal business hours of apparent
operation and must provide access to off-premises records within three (3)
business days following a request from the Village Manager. All records shall
include a tracking system to document the buying of industrial hemp products at
an industrial hemp establishment.
Prior to the expiration of any license awarded under this chapter, the owner(s)
of the industrial hemp establishment shall provide the Village an annual report
describing all information pertaining to the sale of industrial hemp for the
duration of the license. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-13: PROHIBITED LOCATIONS:
   A.   Any licensed industrial hemp establishment shall not be located within
three hundred feet (300') of any:
      1.   School;
      2.   Childcare establishment;
      3.   Cemetery;
      4.   Public park;
      5.   Forest preserve;
      6.   Public housing;
      7.   Industrial hemp establishment. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-14: SIGNS AND ADVERTISING:
Any owner or premises licensed pursuant to this chapter, shall comply with all
Village ordinances regulating signs and advertising. In addition, no owner or
licensed premises shall use any advertising material that is misleading,
deceptive, or false, or that, as evidenced either, by the content of
advertising material, by the medium, or the manner in which the advertising is
disseminated, is designed to appeal to minors. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-15: CHANGE OF LOCATION, MODIFICATION:
Any licensee desirous of changing the location of an industrial hemp
establishment or modifying such industrial hemp establishment premises shall
provide notice to the Village of any such action. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-16: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any business operating in violation of any provisions of this Code, may have
their business license revoked or suspended if the Village, upon an
adjudicatory process, deems that the owner or licensed premises is in violation
of any Village ordinance.
Any license or registration under this chapter may be revoked by the Village
President because of any violation of this chapter or of any other ordinance of
the Village, or of any State or Federal law, but not before the licensee has
been given at least three (3) days' notice and an opportunity to be heard by
the Village Manager on the issue of whether said license or registration should
be revoked. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-17: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), for each offense. In addition to said fine, any violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter may be grounds for revocation of any license
issued by the Village to any such violator, and in relation to the revocation
provisions provided herein. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-18: TAXATION:
In addition to the regulations provided herein, an "Industrial Hemp Tax", shall
be imposed in additional to all other taxes imposed by the Village of Oak Lawn,
State of Illinois, or any other municipal or political subdivision of the State
of Illinois. This Industrial Hemp Tax is imposed on the retail sale of
industrial hemp in the Village which is purchased at a licensed industrial hemp
establishment. The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax
is upon the purchaser of industrial hemp. Accordingly, said Industrial Hemp Tax
shall be imposed on each transaction, in an amount of twenty five cents ($0.25)
per industrial hemp product sold.
The tax shall be paid by any consumer, and nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to impose a tax on the occupation retail sales of industrial hemp
establishment. Any owner(s) of a licensed industrial hemp establishment shall
collect and remit this tax to the Village on a quarterly basis. The tax shall
be separately stated on a receipt provided to a person purchasing industrial
hemp. It shall be a violation of this chapter for an industrial hemp
establishment to fail to separately itemize the tax upon a person or to
otherwise absorb the tax on such sale.
If a person is desirous to claim an exemption to this Industrial Hemp Tax, the
person shall submit written proof of the exemption to the Village. Failure to
submit written proof of any exemption shall waive or bar receipt of any said
exemption. This tax shall not apply to the extent it would violate the United
States Constitution or the Constitution of the State of Illinois.
The amounts collected by this Industrial Hemp Tax shall be deposited into the
Village's Corporate Fund and will be expended by the Village to promote tourism
and conventions in the Village. (Ord. 19-06-10)
3-32-19: INCORPORATION OF INDUSTRIAL HEMP PILOT PROGRAM:
Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, this chapter incorporates the
requirements and procedures set forth in Ill. Admin. Code title 8, section
1100.0 et seq. (Ord. 19-06-10)
CHAPTER 33
[RESERVED]
CHAPTER 34
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
SECTION:
3-34-1:    Definitions
3-34-2:    Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited.
3-34-3:    Public Nuisance Declared.
3-34-4:    Violations
3-34-1: DEFINITIONS.
Definitions. The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this
Chapter shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section,
as follows:
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft grower,
processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization or
transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent. (Ord. 19-28-92)
3-34-2: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
All Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments are prohibited in the Village of
Oak Lawn. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated or
aide, abet or assist in the operation within the Village of Oak Lawn of any of
the following:
   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower
   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center
   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization
   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser
   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor
   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter (Ord. 19-28-92)
3-34-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the Village
of Oak Lawn in violation of the provisions of this Chapter is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies. (Ord.
19-28-92)
3-34-4:    VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this Chapter may be enforced in accordance with the any and all
applicable enforcement provisions provided in this Code.
(Ord. 19-28-92)
CHAPTER 35
CHARTERED TRANSPORTATION
SECTION:
3-35-1: Purpose
3-35-2: Applicability
3-35-3: Permit Required
3-35-4: Application For Permit
3-35-5: Issuance Of Permit; Conditions Imposed
3-35-6: Non-Liability Of Village
3-35-7: Punctuality
 
3-35-8: Violation; Penalty
3-35-1: PURPOSE:
The general purpose of this chapter is:
   To provide for the safe and sound disembarkment of passengers of privately
chartered buses or other transportation services within the Village. (Ord. 24-
01-02)
3-35-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This section shall apply to commercial motor vehicles operating as
common carriers when:
      1.   The vehicle is engaged in a privately chartered service;
      2.   The service includes disembarkation of ten (10) or more passengers
within the Village who will not reboard; and
      3.   The service does not include arrangements for round-trip
transportation.
   As used in this section, “privately chartered service” refers to services
wherein a motor vehicle is engaged by a person or entity for specific
transportation purposes, not including services that are part of regular,
publicly available transportation routes or schedules or any transportation
service offered by, or in cooperation with, the Village or Worth Township.
“Privately chartered service” does not include courtesy shuttles transporting
customers or guests to or from a fixed location as an incidental service
provided by a business. (Ord. 24-01-02)
3-35-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to offer or provide privately chartered
services disembarking passengers in the Village without a valid chartered
transportation permit issued in accordance with this chapter. A separate permit
shall be required for each motor vehicle providing the services and shall be
valid only for the date, time, and location specified in the permit.(Ord. 24-
01-02)
3-35-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   The owner, operator, or driver of any motor vehicle to which this
chapter applies which proposes to allow passengers to disembark in the Village
shall file an application with the Village Manager, or their designee. The
completed application shall contain all required information set forth in
subsection (2) below and shall be submitted at least fourteen (14) calendar
days prior to the date of the proposed disembarking date.
   B.   The Village Manager, or their designee shall prepare an application
form which shall, at a minimum, require an applicant to provide the following
information:
      1.   The full name, full address, full email address, and telephone
numbers of the owner, operator, and driver of the motor vehicle. The mobile
phone number of the driver of the vehicle shall also be provided.
      2.   The full name, full address, full email address, mobile and land-
line telephone numbers of the entity or individuals that have either directed,
paid for, or financed the transport of persons who will disembark in the
Village.
      3.   The full name, full address, full email address, and telephone
number of the applicant seeking the permit.
      4.   The full name of all persons that are proposed to disembark in the
Village along with copies of IDs for said persons to the extent such IDs exist
or are in the possession of the passengers.
      5.   The name, address, or location in the Village where the applicant
proposes to allow passengers to disembark.
      6.   The date and time at which the applicant’s passengers will disembark
in the Village, which shall be from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on a Monday through
Friday, excluding any federal, state, or Village holidays.
      7.   The name and address of all locations from which the passengers will
be picked up for transport to the Village.
      8.   The full name, full address, mobile and land-line telephone numbers,
and electronic mail addresses of all entities or individuals that shall be
present to meet and receive the passengers disembarking in the Village.
      9.   A detailed plan identifying how the disembarking passengers will be
cared for, housed, and fed, upon disembarking in the Village. The plan shall be
signed by the entity that agrees to be responsible for providing the actions
detailed in the plan.
      10.   Written confirmation from the owner of the property that contains
the proposed disembarkment location that the owner of the property consents to
the disembarkment of the specified passengers on the date, time and location
included on the application.
      11.   Any additional information the Village Manager, or their designee,
may require provided that such information is related to the purposes of this
section.
   C.   The person submitting an application shall swear or affirm that to the
best of their knowledge and belief the information set forth in such
application is true and correct, and such oath or affirmation shall be attested
to by a person authorized to administer oaths or witness affirmations within
the state or territory where the application is sworn to or affirmed. (Ord. 24-
01-02)
3-35-5: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS IMPOSED:
   A.   Upon receipt of an application pursuant to this section, the Village
Manager, or their designee, shall review the same and undertake a review of the
information contained in the application to verify its truth and authenticity.
If the application is not complete, the Village Manager, or their designee,
shall, in writing, advise the applicant of the additional items needed to
complete the application. Within seven (7) calendar days after receiving a
completed application, and upon payment of all required fees or fines due under
this Chapter and compliance with all other applicable requirements of this
Chapter, unless the Village Manager, or their designee, has determined that the
applicant is disqualified as provided below, the Village shall issue a
chartered transportation permit. Such chartered transportation permit shall
contain the approved date, time, and location for disembarkment of passengers
and may contain such conditions and limitations as are necessary to promote
safe and sound passenger disembarkment.
   B.   Upon approval of an application, the Village Manager, or their
designee, shall inform the applicant that the application is approved and shall
provide the applicant, or a person designated thereby, with a telephone number
to coordinate the arrival of the motor vehicle in the Village.
   C.   If the Village denies an application made under this section, the
Village Manager, or their designee, shall reduce the findings to writing and
transmit the same to the applicant within seven (7) calendar days. The
applicant may submit a new application or seek relief from the determination by
the Village Manager by submitting an appeal to the Village President, in
writing, for a hearing. The Village President shall either grant or deny the
appeal in writing within seven (7) calendar days of receiving the appeal.
   D.   Disqualification. The Village Manager, or their designee, shall not
approve an application for any person who:
      1.   Has supplied materially false or misleading information in
connection with an application under this section.
      2.   Has failed to ensure the care, housing, transportation, or feeding
of any passengers disembarking in the Village or otherwise failed to implement
or perform the detailed plan pursuant to the terms of an approved application.
(Ord. 24-01-02)
3-35-6: NON-LIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
The Village assumes no liability for any aspect of a chartered transportation
service or for the failure or neglect of any person associated with the
operation of such service. (Ord. 24-01-02)
3-35-7: PUNCTUALITY:
For any given approval, unscheduled buses must arrive no sooner than, and no
later than, thirty (30) minutes after the approved arrival time, otherwise the
permit shall be considered invalidated. Any loading/unloading of passengers
outside of this scheduled window shall result in a seven hundred and fifty
dollar ($750.00) fine per passenger to the bus operator. (Ord. 24-01-02)
3-35-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Complaints alleging any violation of this section for which the Village may
impose a fine upon the owner, operator, or driver of any motor vehicle to which
this section applies to shall be brought in the name of the Village and
adjudicated before an administrative adjudicator. The administrative
adjudicator shall impose a fine of not less than seven hundred and fifty
dollars ($750.00) per passenger. (Ord. 24-01-02)
CHAPTER 36
ELECTRONIC SWEEPSTAKES MACHINES
SECTION:
3-36-1: Definitions
3-36-2: Prohibitions
3-36-3: Penalties
3-36-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
ELECTRONIC MACHINE OR DEVICE. A mechanically, electronically operated machine
or device, that is owned, leased or otherwise property of a sweepstakes sponsor
or promotor, or any of the sweepstake sponsor's or promoter's partners,
affiliates, subsidiaries or contractors, that is intended to be used by a
recipient of a ticket or other indicia of entry into opportunity for any award
of cash or prizes ("hereinafter referred to as "recipient")., that uses energy,
and that is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism
for pecuniary gain or amusement. This shall specifically include machines that
dispense or accept any kind of gift card or gift certificate, including but not
limited to Product Promotion Kiosks.
ENTER OR ENTRY. The act of process by which a person becomes eligible to
receive any prize offered by electronic machine or device.
ENTERTAINMENT DISPLAY. Visual information capable of being seen by a
recipient that takes the form of actual game play or simulated game play of
games, including, but not limited to, a poker game or any other kind of playing
game; a bingo game; a craps game; a keno game, a lotto game, a race, an eight-
liner game; a pot-of-gold game; a game based on or involving the random or
change matching of different pictures, words, numbers or symbols not dependent
on the skill or dexterity of the player; a casino or gambling game; and any
other video game the outcome of which is not in whole or in part dependent on
the skill or dexterity of the player that is played in the course of revealing
a prize.
PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit of anything else of
value, which may be transferred to a person, whether possession of the prize is
transferred, or placed on an account or other record as evidence of the intent
to transfer ownership as control of the prize.
PRODUCT PROMOTION KIOSK. Devices used for the promotion and sale of gift cards
or gift certificates.
SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, advertising scheme or plan, or other promotion, which,
with or without payment of any consideration, a person may enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance.
SWEEPSTAKES SPONSOR/PROMOTER. An entity whether corporation, limited liability
company or individual that owns or leases the machines referenced herein. (Ord.
25-07-12)
3-36-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Except for licenses granted by the Illinois Gaming Board pursuant to
the provisions of the Illinois Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1, et seq. and this
Village Code, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate, display, or place
into operation, an electronic machine or device to do either of the following
in the Village:
      1.   Conduct sweepstakes through the use of an entertainment or video
display, including the entry process or the reveal of a prize.
      2.   Process a sweepstakes that is conducted through the use of an
entertainment or video display, including the entry process or the reveal of a
prize.
   B.   It is the intent of this section to prohibit any mechanism that seeks
to avoid application of this section through the use of subterfuge or pretense
whatsoever.
   C.   It is the intent of this Section to bar electronic machines/devices
whether they require payment or purchase or not. (Ord. 25-07-12)
3-36-3: PENALTIES:
Any person or entity that violates any provision of this Chapter shall be
punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day that a violation continues
is deemed a separate offense. A second or subsequent violation, after having
been found guilty of a first violation, occurring within twelve (12) months of
the finding of guilty, shall be a fine of not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 25-07-12)
CHAPTER 37
COMMERCIAL LANDLORD LICENSING AND COMMERCIAL OCCUPANCY PERMITS
FOR NON-OWNER OCCUPIED PROPERTIES
SECTION:
3-37-1: Declaration Of Purpose
3-37-2:    Definitions
3-37-3:    Applicability
3-37-4:    Licensing Of Commercial Landlords
3-37-5:    Commercial Rental Unit Occupancy Permit
3-37-6:    Occupancy Inspections; Commercial Rental Unit Occupancy Compliance
Reports; Commercial Rental Unit Occupancy Certificates
3-37-7:    Revocation Or Suspension Of Commercial Rental Unit Occupancy
Certificates
3-37-8:    Notice And Hearing Procedures For Revocation Or Suspension Of A
Commercial Rental Unit Occupancy Certificate
3-37-9:    Hearings On Suspension Or Revocation Of Commercial Landlord License
3-37-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the licensing of commercial
landlords, as defined herein, the inspection of non-owner occupied commercial
units within the village, and the issuance of commercial occupancy permits, in
order to facilitate more effective communication between the village and
commercial landlords, to protect the health, safety and welfare of the tenants,
residents and property owners of the village, to facilitate the enforcement of
minimum standards for maintenance of non-owner occupied commercial units to be
free from nuisance and substandard, unsafe and/or non-code compliant conditions
through a regulatory process involving the issuance of commercial occupancy
permits, as a supplementary tool in addition to complaint-driven enforcement,
and to aid in the development and preservation of the commercial areas of the
village and the preservation of the character of the village in general,
including but not limited to, its property values. This chapter further imposes
a commercial landlord licensing fee on certain non-owner occupied, non-tax
generating rented properties within the village in order to provide the
budgetary resources necessary to adequately support the growing presence of
such uses within the village.
(Ord. 25-12-35)
3-37-2: DEFINITIONS:
   Unless the context shall otherwise require, terms used in this section shall
have the following definitions:
   AFFILIATED ENTITY: An entity held in common ownership with a commercial
landlord, or having substantially the same ownership, managers, shareholders or
partners as the commercial landlord, as adequately demonstrated to the village.
   COMMERCIAL LANDLORD: An individual, firm, association, partnership, limited
liability company, corporation, trust, or other legal entity, that is the owner
of any commercial rental unit within the village.
   COMMERCIAL RENTAL UNIT: Any non-residential property, building or structure
wherein the owner of the property, building or structure or its agent and/or
manager allows an individual or entity to occupy space while charging a daily,
weekly, monthly, quarterly or annual fee for the privilege of occupying said
space for non-residential purposes. A unit of non-residential property,
building or structure that is occupied by the owner of the property, or an
affiliated entity, is not a commercial rental unit for purposes of this
chapter.
(Ord. 25-12-35)
3-37-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all commercial landlords
and commercial rental units, as defined herein, in the village.
   B.   This chapter establishes licensing requirements and licensing fees for
commercial landlords and minimum standards for the occupancy of commercial
rental units, and does not replace or modify the standards otherwise
established for the construction, replacement or repair of buildings contained
in the building ordinances of the village, except where such are in conflict
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 25-12-35)
3-37-4: LICENSING OF COMMERCIAL LANDLORDS:
   A.   License Required: Commencing January 1, 2026, no person shall engage in
the business of renting a commercial rental unit without first obtaining a
commercial landlord license from the village.
   B.   Licensing Period; Late Fee: The commercial landlord licensing period
shall run from January 1 to December 31 each year. Licensing shall be required
annually and shall be completed prior to March 31, 2026 for the initial year
following its enactment, and prior to January 1 of each year thereafter,
regardless of a property's initial licensing date.
   C.   License Fee: Except where exempted by subsection D below, all
commercial landlords as defined in this chapter 3-37 shall pay both a base fee
and a total square footage fee as set forth in Section
3-1-1-7 of this Code.
   D.   License Fee Exemption: The square footage of any commercial rental unit
where it is demonstrated by the commercial landlord to the satisfaction of the
Village that at least fifty percent (50%) of the gross revenues generated by
the lessee are subject to a municipal sales, video gaming or other village-
imposed tax other than property tax, shall be exempt from payment of the
licensing fee set forth in C above. Satisfactory evidence establishing this
exemption shall consist of sworn affidavits and/or sales and other tax records,
and such other evidence as may be required by the Village in its sole
discretion.
   E.   Penalty For Underreporting: Under- reported square footage is subject
to a fine of one dollar ($1.00) per square foot of under-reported interior
space.
   F.   Application: Application for a commercial landlord license or renewal
of a license hereunder shall be on a form provided by the village, which shall
be filled out in its entirety, truthfully and accurately. The following
information shall be provided by each commercial landlord licensing applicant:
      1.   The full legal name, physical address, email address and telephone
number of the commercial landlord;
      2.   The address of each commercial rental unit owned by the applicant,
and, if the property is held in trust, the name, physical address, telephone
numbers of the beneficiaries and the percentages of ownership of all the
beneficiaries of the trust, as well as appropriate corporate or partnership
information;
      3.   The occupancy status and square footage of all commercial rental
units owned by the applicant, including currently vacant units;
      4.   Information on any exemption sought by the applicant based on either
vacant space, or the license fee exemption set forth in subsection D above;
      5.   The name, physical address, email address and telephone number of
any management company and/or agent representing a commercial landlord;
      6.   Service address for service of notices of violation or citations
related to any commercial rental unit;
      7.   An acknowledgment that the commercial landlord or its management
company and/or agent shall be reasonably accessible to the village and have a
telephone number which shall be available for the village to use at any time.
The commercial landlord or agent shall have a local office available for
contact in Illinois;
      8.   Twenty four (24) hour emergency contact phone number;
      9.   A licensing fee and any applicable late fee;
      10.   The water account number associated with the commercial rental
unit; and
      11.   Such other information as may be required in the discretion of the
village.
      If an application is found to be incomplete, the applicant shall be
notified of the missing information, which shall be promptly provided.
   G.   Changes In Information During License Year: In the event any of the
provided information should change during the application process or licensing
year, it shall be the obligation of the commercial landlord to notify the
village in writing within thirty (30) days of the change. License fees paid on
time for the licensing year shall not be affected by informational changes or
changes in square footage of rental space made during the licensing year.
Commercial rental units that become vacant during the course of the licensing
year shall not entitle the commercial landlord to a refund.
   H.   Any existing licensing delinquency must be paid prior to issuance of a
license renewal.
(Ord. 25-12-35)
3-37-5: COMMERCIAL RENTAL UNIT OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
   A.   Commercial Rental Unit Occupancy Permit Required: Commencing on January
1, 2026, it shall be unlawful for any commercial landlord, or its manager and/
or agent, to knowingly permit the occupancy of any commercial rental unit for
any purpose until an inspection has been performed, a commercial rental unit
compliance report as required by this chapter has been issued by the Department
of Community Development, Division of Code Compliance, and a commercial rental
unit occupancy permit from the village has been applied for, issued, signed by
the commercial landlord and prospective tenant(s), and approved by the Division
of Code Compliance.
   B.   Eligibility: No commercial rental unit occupancy permit for a
commercial rental unit shall be issued to any commercial landlord or its
manager and/or agent, if such commercial landlord or its manager and/or agent
is indebted to the village and until all violations of this chapter and all
other applicable codes and ordinances of the village have been brought into
compliance.
(Ord. 25-12-35)
3-37-6: OCCUPANCY INSPECTIONS; COMMERCIAL RENTAL UNIT OCCUPANCY COMPLIANCE
REPORTS; COMMERCIAL RENTAL UNIT OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Occupancy Inspection Required: All areas of the commercial rental unit
to which a renter has the right of use or access shall be subject to an
occupancy inspection for compliance with the provisions of the village's
adopted property maintenance code and all other health, safety, zoning, and
building ordinances of the village. An occupancy inspection is required prior
to the issuance of a commercial rental unit compliance report and commercial
rental unit occupancy permit.
   B.   Inspection Fees (Per Commercial Rental Unit):
      1.   No fee for the first inspection.
      2.   First Reinspection: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   Second Reinspection: Two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      4.   Third And Subsequent Reinspections: Three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   C.   Preinspection Of Commercial Rental Units: A commercial landlord or its
agent and/or manager may request that a commercial rental unit be inspected for
code compliance even though there is no prospective new tenant for the unit.
   D.   Commercial Rental Unit Code Compliance Report: Following the occupancy
inspection, a commercial rental unit code compliance report detailing the
results of the inspection shall be generated by the department of inspectional
services. The possession of a commercial rental unit code compliance report, in
and of itself, does not authorize occupancy of said property.
   E.   Commercial Rental Unit Occupancy Certificate: If an occupancy
inspection establishes that a commercial rental unit complies with all the
provisions of the village's adopted property maintenance code and all other
health, safety, zoning, and building ordinances of the village, and
satisfaction of all other requirements of this chapter, then the department of
inspectional services shall issue a commercial rental unit occupancy
certificate for said unit noting the date of the occupancy inspection and that
the commercial rental unit complies with the requirements of the village's
adopted property maintenance code and all other health, safety, zoning and
building ordinances that apply to the unit. One copy of the occupancy
certificate shall be delivered to or mailed, via first class mail, to the
licensed commercial landlord or its manager and/or agent as designated in the
application. A record of all commercial rental unit occupancy certificates
shall be kept on file by the department, and copies shall be furnished upon
request to any person having a proprietary interest or tenancy interest in the
commercial rental unit affected. In cases where the violations identified are
minor and do not threaten the health or safety of a proposed tenant, a
conditional commercial rental unit occupancy certificate may, in the sole
discretion of the village, be issued. Every commercial rental unit certificate
of occupancy shall be issued for a period to run until there is a change in
occupancy, unless sooner revoked.
   F.   Violations; Reinspections: Whenever the building official determines
that any commercial rental unit fails to meet the requirements set forth in
this chapter, any applicable rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto, or
the adopted property maintenance code or all other health, safety, zoning, and
building ordinances of the village, the building official shall issue a notice
setting forth the alleged failures and advising the commercial landlord or its
manager and/or agent that such failures must be corrected. This notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing.
      2.   Set forth the alleged violations of this chapter, the applicable
rules and regulations issued pursuant hereto, or of the property maintenance
code and all other health, safety, zoning, and building ordinances of the
village.
      3.   Describe the commercial rental unit where the violations are alleged
to exist or to have been committed. Such written notice shall specify an
appropriate or acceptable method of correction.
      4.   Specify a specific date for the correction of any violation alleged.
      5.   Be personally served upon the commercial landlord or its manager
and/or agent by the building official via personal service or first class mail.
If a person or entity to whom such notice is addressed cannot be found after
diligent effort to do so, service may be made upon such persons by posting the
notice in or about the commercial rental unit described in the notice.
      6.   At the end of the period of time allowed for the correction of any
violation alleged, as stated in the violation notice, the building official
shall reinspect the commercial rental unit described in the notice.
      7.   If, upon reinspection, the violations are determined by the building
official not to have been corrected, the building official, in turn, may issue
a code compliance ticket to initiate legal proceedings to be handled in the
Village of Oak Lawn's housing court for the immediate correction of the alleged
violations.
(Ord. 25-12-35)
3-37-7: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF COMMERCIAL RENTAL UNIT OCCUPANCY
CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Power To Revoke Or Suspend: The village may seek the revocation or
suspension of a commercial landlord rental unit occupancy certificate for an
individual commercial rental unit at any time during the occupancy of the
commercial rental unit for which the commercial rental occupancy permit has
been issued, should the code enforcement officer determine, following a
reasonable investigation, that the unit no longer complies with the provisions
of this chapter due to physical defects or other code violations in the
commercial rental unit, or due to maintenance of a nuisance on the premises.
   B.   Circumstances Warranting Revocation Or Suspension Due To Maintaining A
Nuisance: Circumstances warranting the revocation or suspension of a commercial
landlord rental unit occupancy certificate due to maintenance of nuisance shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   A commercial landlord or its manager and/or agent, or a tenant's
knowingly permitting illegal drug activity to occur on or within the premises
subject to the certificate. The term "illegal drug related activity", as used
herein, shall mean any conduct which would violate any provision of the
Illinois controlled substances act, as amended, the Illinois cannabis control
act, as amended, the Illinois drug paraphernalia control act, as amended, or
any other local, state, or federal law prohibiting the manufacture,
distribution, delivery, use, or possession of a controlled substance.
      2.   A commercial landlord or its manager and/or agent, or a tenant's
knowingly permitting prostitution related activity to occur on or within the
premises subject to inspection under this chapter. The term "prostitution
related activity", as used herein, shall mean any conduct which violates any
provision of the prostitution related portions of the Illinois criminal code,
as amended, or any other local, state, or federal law prohibiting prostitution
related activity.
      3.   Any activity by a tenant, or by a guest of the tenant with the
tenant's sufferance or permission, which would constitute a nuisance. The term
"nuisance", as used herein shall mean any conduct of individuals or condition
of property that injures or endangers the health, safety, peace, and welfare of
the surrounding community or that obstructs the reasonable use of the property.
The term "nuisance" shall include that conduct or condition of property that
has been defined by Illinois or local law to constitute a nuisance. In
addition, a commercial rental unit shall be treated as a nuisance if either:
         a.   The commercial rental unit has been the subject of three (3) or
more complaints for police service within a twelve (12) month period due to the
misconduct either of the tenant(s) or of the guest(s) of the tenant(s) with the
tenant's sufferance or permission. The twelve (12) month period referred to in
this subsection shall be a continuously rolling period that shall be measured
not on a calendar year basis but on the basis of the twelve (12) months
immediately preceding the complaint, call for service, or violation; or
         b.   The village has declared the commercial rental unit or the
property on which the commercial rental unit is located a public nuisance due
to the condition of the property or the conduct of the tenants or guests
occupying the property.
(Ord. 25-12-35)
3-37-8: NOTICE AND HEARING PROCEDURES FOR REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF A
COMMERCIAL RENTAL UNIT OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Notice: Prior to seeking revocation or suspension of a commercial
landlord rental unit occupancy certificate, any police officer, building
inspector or code enforcement officer, shall issue a written notice directed to
the commercial landlord or its manager and/or agent, and to the tenant, stating
the defects, violations or nuisance noted and, where the violation is a type
that can be cured, providing a reasonable time for the correction of said
defects, violations or nuisance. The notice shall be served by personal service
or in writing via first class mail.
   B.   Emergency Revocation Or Suspension: In cases where the conditions of
the unit pose an immediate threat to the life and safety of the occupants, the
village manager may issue an emergency notice of revocation or suspension to
the owner or its manager and/or agent and the tenant immediately and shall then
cause the unit to be vacated without delay.
   C.   Hearing: Following issuance of written notice as specified in A above,
and upon the determination by the village manager or his or her designee that
there is reasonable cause to believe that a commercial rental unit occupancy
certificate should be revoked or suspended because of a violation of this
chapter, notice of a hearing, together with a written statement of charges,
shall be sent to the commercial landlord or its manager and/or agent, and to
the tenant(s). The hearing officer shall be the village president or his or her
designee. Such a hearing shall be held not less than five (5) calendar days
after notice of time, place and subject of the hearing has been received by the
commercial landlord or its manager and/or agent. The village's representative
shall present evidence in support of the suspension or revocation, and the
commercial landlord or its manager and/or agent and the tenant shall be
permitted to rebut such evidence and present any other evidence that is
relevant and material. Based on the evidence presented at the hearing, the
hearing officer shall issue a written decision. The hearing officer's decision
shall be final and binding unless appealed as hereinafter provided. The
suspension or revocation of any commercial rental unit occupancy certificate
shall not release or discharge the commercial landlord or its manager and/or
agent or tenant, as appropriate, from paying any fees due under this chapter,
nor shall such commercial landlord or its manager and/or agent or tenant be
released from prosecution for violating this article or from proceedings
seeking a suspension, non-renewal or revocation of a commercial landlord
license.
   D.   Determination; Cure: If the hearing officer determines that a violation
has occurred, the hearing officer may fine the violator and may also revoke or
suspend the commercial rental unit occupancy certificate or may allow a time
certain for curing the defect and/or violation or abatement of the nuisance
(the "cure period"). If a cure period is allowed by the hearing officer,
immediately upon termination of the cure period, the police officer, code
enforcement officer, or inspector of the building department who served the
notice, or any other police officer or inspector who shall be assigned by the
police (the "village code official"), shall investigate to determine whether or
not the defect, code violation and/or nuisance complained of has been abated.
   E.   Temporary Restraining Order; Injunction: In the event the person upon
whom notice has been served pursuant to this article has failed within the
prescribed time to demonstrate that the nuisance has been abated, in addition
to the payment of any fines or costs ordered by the hearing officer as a
penalty, the village code official may request that the village attorney seek a
restraining order and a preliminary injunction, as well as a permanent
injunction, before a court with proper jurisdiction over such an action in
order to remedy and abate the violation and to enjoin further violations of
this code.
   F.   Recovery Of Expenses: The hearing officer's decision may further
authorize the village to recover any expenses incurred by the village in
abating a public nuisance under the provisions of this article or as authorized
by any other applicable law or ordinance.
   G.   Appeal: Any person whose commercial rental unit occupancy certificate
has been suspended or revoked by the hearing officer after a hearing under this
section may appeal the hearing officer's decision to the board of trustees by
filing a written notice of appeal with the village board within three (3)
business days of the person's receipt of the hearing officer's decision. The
board of trustees, or its designated hearing committee, shall review the
hearing officer's decision and may affirm or reverse the decision or remand it
to the hearing officer for further action or review.
   H.   Fines And Penalties: The penalty for a violation of any section of this
chapter shall be not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00), and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 25-12-35)
3-37-9: HEARINGS ON SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF COMMERCIAL LANDLORD LICENSE:
   In cases where the village finds it appropriate to seek suspension, non-
renewal or revocation of a commercial landlord license, the procedures for
business license suspensions, non-renewals or revocations set forth in
Chapter 3-1 of this code shall apply.
(Ord. 25-12-35)
TITLE 4
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING PURPOSE, INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Short Title/Introduction
4-1-2: Purpose
4-1-3: Scope of Regulations
4-1-4: Interpretation
4-1-5: Regulations Used in Conjunction With Other Applicable Regulations
4-1-6: Definitions
4-1-1: SHORT TITLE/INTRODUCTION:
   A.   Title: This Title shall be known as THE OAK LAWN ZONING ORDINANCE OF
1975.
   B.   Introduction: Formal planning in Oak Lawn began with the appointment of
a Planning and Zoning Committee in 1937. A State planning grant was initiated
in 1960 and placed with the firm of Stanton and Rockwell. The mission was to
develop a guide for the future land use of Oak Lawn.
A Planning and Development Commission was named in 1963 and it became evident
that Oak Lawn was to be in the path of substantial growth and would need
direction and protection to achieve orderly development. A new Appeals and
Review Board was created at the same time to assist in this era of rapid
development.
After discussion of the Stanton and Rockwell recommendation, it was agreed that
further input from community organizations and residents was needed. A
community group met over a period of about two (2) years, reviewing the
community, block by block, taking field trips to examine the solutions in other
areas and consulting those affected by anticipated growth.
The study developed into a master plan consisting of the annotated zoning
ordinance and a zoning map reflecting current practice and further plans. The
ordinance created a Planning and Development Commission with the responsibility
of carrying out the ordinance, holding hearings, doing periodic reviews and
making recommendations for change. An Appeals and Review Board was also
instituted to carry out specific functions outlined in the ordinance (Ordinance
191).
Oak Lawn has always been in the vanguard of communities planning carefully for
the future. There are innovative features of Ordinance 191, now known as Title
4 of the 1985 Village Code, which have been widely copied. Oak Lawn is known
for its deliberate speed in considering change and for the opportunity of the
public to participate.
The Planning and Development Commission is hereby amended and renamed the
Zoning & Planning Commission, effective retroactively to June 1, 2019.
4-1-2: PURPOSE:
These zoning regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   Divide the Village into zones or districts, restricting and regulating
therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of the buildings, structures and land for trade, industry, residence and
other specified uses;
   B.   Regulate the intensity of the use of lot areas, and to regulate and
determine the area of open spaces surrounding such buildings;
   C.   Establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
specified industrial, business, residential and other uses within such areas;
   D.   Fix standards to which buildings or structures shall conform therein;
   E.   Prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the character
of such districts, respectively;
   F.   Prevent additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed hereunder;
   G.   Limit congestion in the public streets by providing for the off-street
parking and loading and unloading of vehicles;
   H.   Provide for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings and structures;
   I.   Prescribe penalties for the violation of this Title;
   J.   Secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
   K.   Provide adequate light and air;
   L.   Prevent the overcrowding of land;
   M.   Conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
Village; and
   N.   Promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
4-1-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The rules and regulations contained herein are upon the needs as established by
the President and Board of Trustees of the Village and may, from time to time,
appear to be in conflict with State statutes. However, the Village is a home
rule community under the new State Constitution which specifically gives the
Village all powers not specifically retained by the general assembly of the
State.
4-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this Title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this Title to interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinance or
rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued, and not in conflict
with any of the provisions hereof or which shall be adopted, or issued pursuant
to law relating to the use of buildings or premises, nor is it intended by this
title to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other
agreements between parties; provided, however, where this title imposes a
greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon height of
building or requires larger open spaces than are imposed or required by such
ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, or by easements, covenants or
agreements, the provisions of this title shall control.
4-1-5: REGULATIONS USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH OTHER APPLICABLE REGULATIONS:
This zoning title must be used in conjunction with all other applicable
ordinances and building codes of the village.
4-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number
shall include the plural and the plural the singular; the word "shall" is
mandatory and is not directory, and the word "person" includes firm,
association, trust, organization, partnership, company or corporation as well
as an individual. Unless otherwise stated, the requirements of this title are
minimum requirements.
Where there is no definition or category which fits a proposed use or new or
innovative idea, the proposed use shall be considered a "special use" and shall
comply with the provisions of chapter 14 of this title.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building or portion of the main building, the
use of which is incidental to that of the main building or to the principal use
of the premises, including garages, fallout shelters, storage sheds, storage
buildings and swimming pools (but only to the extent any such swimming pool is
completely covered in such a way that rainwater cannot enter the swimming
pool).
ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental to the principal or main use of the
premises.
ADDITION: An extension or increase in floor area or height of a building or
structure.
ALLEY: A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of
access to property abutting thereon.
ALTERATION: Applied to a building or structure to mean a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the exit facilities.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple- or two-family dwelling, or
where more than one living unit is established above nonresidential.
APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple-Family.
ATTIC: A space between the roof and the next lower ceiling, having an average
clear height of less than seven feet (7').
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Any building or premises used for the dispensing,
sale or offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels or oils. When the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale is incidental to the conduct of a public
garage, the premises are classified as a public garage.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: See title 6, chapter 14 of this code.
BASEMENT: A story having more than one-half (1/2) its height below the grade. A
basement shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of height.
BOARDING HOUSE: See definition of Lodging House.
BUFFER: A zone, area or strip used to separate uses or to serve as a protective
barrier between uses. For the purpose of this title, there are three (3) types
of buffers:
   A.   Buffer zone: Area used to separate uses.
      Example: An area used to develop distance or barriers between a shopping
center and an R-1 area.
   B.   Transitional zone: An area which gradually decreases intensity of use.
      Example: Decreasing from a commercial use to a multi-family use to a
single-family use. The reduction may be in height, bulk and density.
   C.   Buffer strip: A narrow strip of land used for the erection of a barrier
or landscaping where areas of different zoning are contiguous.
      Example: A landscaped and fenced area where a commercial zone abuts a
residence zone.
BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance measured from the established grade
for the building to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck
line for mansard roofs; and to the mean height level (between eaves and ridge)
for gable and hip roofs.
CELLAR: See definition of Basement.
COMMUNITY BUILDINGS: Any building used as a place of public assembly which is
of a public or quasi-public nature, which would qualify as a real estate tax
exempt structure.
COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A group home or specialized residential care home serving
unrelated persons with disabilities. Community residence does not include a
residence which serves persons as an alternative to incarceration for a
criminal offense.
CONVALESCENT, NURSING OR REST HOME: A public or private facility for the care
of children, adults, aged or the infirm or a place of residence, permanent or
temporary, for those suffering mental and physical disorders, but not including
facilities for surgery or contagious diseases.
DEVELOPMENT: Any use for a parcel of land which proposes to construct,
reconstruct or modify the building(s) occupying the land, or which proposes to
place a building on a parcel of land. Development implies a process in which
details are set forth in an orderly manner to evolve the possibilities of the
land and/or buildings in a manner compatible with the growth of the community,
and the objectives of planning and zoning of the village of Oak Lawn.
DISTRICT: A section or sections of the village of Oak Lawn for which the
regulations governing the use, height and bulk of buildings and premises are
uniform.
DUPLEX: See definition of Dwelling, Two-Family.
DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof, but not a trailer or mobile home,
designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy, including single-family
dwellings, two-family dwellings, and multiple-family dwellings, but not
including hotels, motels or lodging or boarding houses.
DWELLING, ATTACHED: A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling at one or
more sides of a party wall or walls. (See definition of Row House, Townhouses.)
DWELLING, DETACHED: A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open space on
the same lot.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building, or portion thereof, containing three (3)
or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building containing one dwelling unit only.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building containing two (2) dwelling units only.
DWELLING UNIT: Consists of one or more rooms which are arranged, designed or
used as living quarters for one family only.
EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room exclusive of
bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets or dining alcove directly off the principal
room, providing such dining alcove does not exceed one hundred twenty five
(125) square feet in area.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, with one kitchen constituting the cooking facilities for the
unit, whether or not related to each other by birth, adoption or marriage;
provided, however, that:
   A.   No unit consisting of all unrelated persons shall exceed three (3)
persons; and
   B.   No unit consisting of related and unrelated persons shall consist of
more than the related family and no more than two (2) other unrelated persons.
FARM: An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products such as
vegetables, fruit, trees and grain and their storage on the area, as well as
for the raising thereon of the usual farm poultry and farm animals for the use
or consumption of the person or persons operating the farm. The term farming
includes the operating of such an area for one or more of the above uses,
including the necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the produce;
provided, however, that the operation of such accessory uses shall be secondary
to that of the normal farming activities; and provided further, that farming
does not include the feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
FLOOD RESERVOIR: A manmade ponding area created for the purpose of impounding
floodwaters to alleviate any flood damage to the surrounding buildings and
area.
FLOODPLAIN: That continuous land area adjacent to a watercourse whose elevation
is equal to or below the flood base elevation, including any land which is
surrounded on more than one-half (1/2) its perimeter by land having an
elevation equal to or lower than the flood base elevation. (Also known as the
"flood hazard area".) See title 6, chapter 14 of this code.
FLOOR AREA FOR DETERMINING FLOOR AREA RATIO: The floor area of a building is
the sum of the gross horizontal areas of all of the floors of the building
measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline
of walls separating two (2) buildings. The floor area when more than one-half
(1/2) of the basement height is above the established curb level or above the
finished lot grade level where the curb level has not been established;
elevator shafts and stairwells; floor space used for mechanical equipment
except equipment located on the roof; attic space having headroom of seven feet
(7') or more; interior balconies and mezzanines and enclosed porches and floor
areas devoted to off street parking or loading for commercial use shall not be
included in the floor area. This definition shall not apply if there is a
specific floor area definition included in specific regulations such as planned
unit development, planned office and commercial, planned multiple-floored
residential or other such ordinances or regulations which may be developed in
the future.
FLOOR AREA FOR DETERMINING OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS: Floor
area when prescribed as the base of measurement for off street parking spaces
and loading berths or any use shall mean the sum of the gross horizontal areas
of all of the several floors of the building or portions thereof. This
definition shall not apply if there is a specific floor area definition
included in specific regulations such as planned unit development, planned
office and commercial and planned multiple-floored residential or other such
ordinances or regulations which may be developed in the future.
FREESTANDING ATM: A self-service, interactive device that is located outside of
and independent of the principal building or buildings, which is accessible to
the general public for the purposes of dispensing money or information.
FRONTAGE: All property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street and the dead end of the street. On a corner lot the
frontage is the side with the lesser dimension.
GARAGE, PARKING: A structure, private or public, for the purpose of parking or
storing automobiles. There shall be no dispensing of gasoline or oil and no
repairs being made to the vehicles.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building to a residence which houses motor driven
vehicles. Such garage may house not more than one commercial vehicle of not
more than one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity and may not be used for the
sale of motor fuel and/or oil or for the repair of motor vehicles.
GARAGE, SERVICE: A building used for housing, hiring, storing, equipping or
repairing of motor driven vehicles.
GARDEN HOME: See definition of Row House, Townhouses.
GRADE:
   A.   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the established
elevation of the highest point of the sidewalk along said one street. Where no
sidewalk exists, the highest point of the curb shall be used.
   B.   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the average
of the highest point of the sidewalks along said streets. Where no sidewalk
exists, the highest point of the curb shall be used.
GREEN STRIP: A street which is not currently required for vehicular traffic and
is developed with lawn and trees as a green area and with a walkway for
pedestrian traffic only. It remains public property and cannot be used for
private purposes.
HEALTH CLUBS: A business establishment which offers physical fitness facilities
such as swimming pools, workout rooms, handball or racquetball courts, running
tracks or other such facilities. A massage service may be provided as necessary
to the main function of physical fitness activities, provided it conforms to
all requirements of village ordinances.
HEARING: Generally, an item or petition to be brought before the Zoning and
Planning Commission or the Appeals and Review Board as a part of a regular
agenda; not to be confused with a public hearing.
HOME OCCUPATIONS: The village is not opposed to the development of a business
which starts as a small home occupation, providing that the home occupation
does not impinge upon the rights and privileges of the abutting and adjoining
homeowners and, further, that the home occupation is conducted in such a manner
that it does not change in any way the neighborhood atmosphere of an R-1, R-
2 or R-3 residential district. The following criteria shall be met by all home
occupations:
   A.   Home occupations in all residential districts shall be considered as a
revocable special use when such home occupation impinges upon the rights and
privileges of the residential district in which it takes place.
   B.   A home occupation shall be any business or occupation carried on by a
member of the immediate family residing within the dwelling unit.
   C.   The home occupation shall be incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling unit for dwelling purposes and shall not occupy more than one-fourth
(1/4) of the total area of any story, cellar, basement or accessory structure
of the dwelling unit.
   D.   There shall be no signs, advertising, display or activity that will
indicate from the exterior that the building is being used, in part, for any
purpose other than that of a dwelling.
   E.   Media advertising shall be limited to name, occupational specialty, an
office maildrop or post office box, telephone number and shall specify that
personal contact is by appointment only. The address of the dwelling unit shall
not be used in any advertising.
   F.   No commodities shall be sold on the premises except preordered
merchandise. Such merchandise shall be limited to specialty goods and services
only and shall not include general merchandise.
   G.   There shall be no commodity sold or services rendered that require
receipt or delivery of merchandise, goods or equipment by other than a
passenger motor vehicle, three-fourths (3/4) ton setup van, or by United States
letter carrier mail service.
   H.   The home occupation shall be conducted by members of the immediate
family only; except, that one additional employee may be utilized upon a
conditional basis, i.e., accountant, secretary, draftsman, etc., but not on a
full time basis.
   I.   All activities, including storage, shall be conducted completely within
the dwelling unit or accessory structure and in no case shall there be visible
outside storage of goods, supplies or equipment.
   J.   There shall be no perceptible noise, odor, smoke, electrical
interference or vibration emanating from the structure in which the home
occupation functions.
   K.   No mechanical or electrical equipment shall be used except such as is
permissible for purely domestic or household purposes; except, that small
business office equipment is permissible such as typewriters, calculators, etc.
   L.   A professional person may use his residence for consultations,
emergency treatment or the performance of religious rites, but not for the
general practice of his profession.
   M.   There shall be not more than one truck on the premises which shall not
exceed a three-fourths (3/4) ton capacity, parked behind the building line,
subject to chapter 13 of this title.
   N.   In no case shall appointments or other customer traffic be permitted
which creates parking problems for the neighbors, nor shall home visitation be
the principal source of customer business.
   O.   Catering and food manufacturing services are strictly prohibited as
home occupations.
HOTEL: A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to a
boarding house or lodging house.
LAND COVERAGE: The land coverage ratio of the building or buildings on any lot
is the floor area of the building or buildings and all accessory buildings on
that lot divided by the area of such lot, or, in the case of planned
developments, by the net site area after deducting street dedications.
LARGE COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A community residence serving nine (9) to twenty
(20) persons with disabilities.
LOADING BERTH: The ground area occupied or provided for a truck to unload at a
deck or door.
LODGING HOUSE: A building or place where lodging is provided (or which is
equipped regularly to provide lodging) by prearrangement for a definite period,
for compensation, for three (3) or more, but not exceeding eight (8)
individuals, not open to transient guests, in contradistinction to hotels open
to transients, and not including convalescent, rest or nursing homes or
community residences. The term “LODGING HOUSE” does not include short-term
rentals.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted in
this title, including one main building together with its accessory buildings,
the open spaces and parking spaces required by this title, and having its
principal frontage upon a street.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more rights of way at their
intersection.
LOT, COVERAGE: The area of a lot occupied by the principal and accessory
buildings.
LOT, DEPTH OF: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage of two (2) nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot of record when referred to in this title shall mean and
refer to a parcel of land which is a designated lot created and delineated in a
duly recorded plat of subdivision.
MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITIES: A facility authorized by Illinois law
and operated by an organization or business registered by the department of
agriculture to perform necessary activities to provide only registered medical
cannabis dispensing organizations with usable medical cannabis.
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING FACILITIES: A facility authorized by Illinois law
and operated by an organization or business registered by the department of
financial and professional regulation to acquire medical cannabis from a
registered medical cannabis cultivation facility for the purpose of dispensing
cannabis, paraphernalia, or related supplies and education materials to
registered qualifying patients.
MEDICAL OFFICE/CLINIC: A premises or part thereof where patients, who are not
lodged overnight, except for observation or emergency treatment, are treated by
one person or group of persons practicing any form of healing or health
building services to individuals, whether the practitioners are physicians
(i.e., medical doctors), chiropractors, osteopaths, chiropodists, podiatrists,
naturopaths, dentists, psychologists and counselors of all types,
psychiatrists, nurse practitioners, optometrists, physical therapists, or any
such profession, the practice of which is regulated by Illinois law. Ancillary
uses, such as pharmacies, eyewear centers, and the like may be located on the
premises.
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle, house car, camp car or any portable or mobile vehicle
on wheels, skids, rollers or blocks, either self-propelled or propelled by any
other means, which is used, or designed to be used, permanently or temporarily,
exclusively for residential occupancy.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any area or premises on which are parked two (2) or more
mobile homes or trailers or any premises on which space for parking of mobile
homes or trailers is rented, or held out for rent, or on which free occupancy
or camping is permitted to the owners or users of mobile homes or trailers for
the purpose of securing their trade. The term "mobile home park" does not
include sales lots on which unoccupied mobile homes or trailers, whether new or
used, are parked for the purpose of inspection and sale.
MOTEL: A building designed or intended to provide temporary sleeping
accommodations for automobile transients and having off street parking spaces
in the immediate vicinity of the building and not including facilities for the
storage, preparation or cooking of food.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at the time
of passage of the original zoning ordinance or any amendment thereto, which
does not conform after the passage of the zoning ordinance or amendment thereto
with the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.
NURSING HOME: A licensed public or private home or institute which provides
maintenance, personal care, and nursing for three (3) or more persons who by
reason of physical illness or infirmity are incapable of maintaining a private,
independent residence.
OFFICE OF QUALITY CONTROL: Department comprised of the bureaus of engineering
and traffic, building code enforcement, planning and zoning, health and
sanitation, and fire prevention. Administrative officers in this department
include the director of office of quality control, administrator of planning,
building and zoning, health/sanitation officer, and chief fire inspector.
PARKING SPACE: A durable surface area, in conformance with the requirements of
section
4-13-3-2 of this title, enclosed in the main building, in an accessory
building, or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one standard automobile,
and comprising an area of not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet,
with dimensions of not less than nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20'), exclusive
of a durably surfaced driveway connecting the parking space with a street or
alley and permitting satisfactory ingress and egress of an automobile. However,
for purposes of calculating the required square footage of parking area under
this title, a figure of two hundred eighty eight (288) square feet per parking
space shall be used so as to take into consideration the necessity of a
driveway to service the parking space.
PAYDAY LOAN: A loan transaction in which a postdated check, or other check that
the parties agree will be held for a period of time prior to presentment for
payment or deposit, is accepted as collateral for the loan.
PAYDAY LOAN STORE: A commercial establishment which engages in the business of
offering payday loans.
PERSON WITH A DISABILITY: Any individual whose disability:
   A.   Is attributable to mental, intellectual or physical impairments or a
combination of mental, intellectual or physical impairments; and
   B.   Is likely to continue for a significant amount of time or indefinitely;
and
   C.   Results in functional limitations in three (3) or more of the following
areas of major life activities:
      1.   Self-care;
      2.   Receptive or expressive language;
      3.   Learning;
      4.   Mobility;
      5.   Self-direction;
      6.   Capacity for independent living;
      7.   Economic self-sufficiency; and
   D.   Reflects the person's need for a combination and sequence of special
interdisciplinary or generic care, treatment or other services which are of a
lifelong or extended duration.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (OR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT): A zoning classification in
which several types of residence uses, such as single-family and multi-family,
may be combined and in which other uses, such as commercial, may be considered,
all under a comprehensive plan subject to the approval of the Zoning and
Planning Commission and the board of trustees.
PRECIOUS METALS DEALERS: An establishment primarily engaged in the business of
purchasing precious metals including, but not limited to, gold, silver,
platinum, stones, or gems in any form from the public. A business primarily
engages in the purchasing of precious metals from the public if twenty percent
(20%) or more of the businesses' total revenue during any month is procured
from the purchasing of precious metals. This definition specifically excludes
purchases by a dealer from a reputable wholesale supplier or other licensed
dealer of such elements or objects for resale to the public at retail.
PUBLIC HEARING: A hearing which complies with the formal requirements of
section
2-1-8-1 of this code.
RESTAURANT, BANQUET HALL: Petition required twenty five dollars ($25.00). A
food service establishment, other than a full service restaurant, which caters
to groups of people who are there for a specific purpose or event which may or
may not include the consumption of food. Permitted in C-1, C-2, C-3 or M-
1 zoning districts.
RESTAURANT, CAFETERIA: Petition required twenty five dollars ($25.00). A food
service establishment where the food is served from various types of containers
while the customer passes along a line of such foods which are on display for
his choice. The customer enters the building, picks up a tray, follows the
line, makes his food selection, carries the tray to a table and then consumes
the food. All food is consumed solely on the premises. Permitted in C-3 zoning
district only.
RESTAURANT, CARRYOUT: Petition required twenty five dollars ($25.00). A food
service establishment without interior or exterior facilities for eating, where
the customer either preorders his selection or places an order in person. The
food is packaged and the customer carries out the food off of the premises of
the establishment for consumption elsewhere, usually, but not always, in his
own home. A drive-through only restaurant facility shall be considered a
carryout restaurant; however, if used in combination with any other type
restaurant facility, the mixed use restaurant provisions shall apply. Permitted
in C-1, C-2, C-3 or M-1 zoning districts.
RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD: Petition required twenty five dollars ($25.00). A food
service establishment where the customer enters the establishment, places an
order, receives his order either on a tray (other than a cafeteria) or in some
form of package, and then either consumes the food in the building where such
food is prepared or elsewhere, on or off the premises, excepting therefrom the
carryout food type establishment where no food is consumed either inside or
outside the premises where the food was prepared. Permitted in C-3 zoning
district only.
RESTAURANT, FULL SERVICE: Petition required twenty five dollars ($25.00). Where
the customer is seated, a waiter or waitress takes the customer's order, brings
food and after the customer has consumed same, brings a bill for the food and
clears the table in preparation for the next customer. All food is consumed
inside of the establishment. Permitted in C-1, C-2, C-3 or M-1 zoning
districts.
RESTAURANT, MIXED USE: Petition required twenty five dollars ($25.00). A food
service establishment which combines two (2) or more of the restaurant uses as
defined above. For the purpose of establishing a proper zoning category the
following criteria shall be used:
   A.   Any fast food or cafeteria use in conjunction with any other restaurant
use shall place the entire facility into a C-3 zoning classification.
   B.   A food service establishment which combines a full service restaurant,
banquet hall and/or a carryout restaurant may be placed into any commercial or
manufacturing zone.
RETAIL JEWELRY STORE: An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of
jewelry or other items made of precious metals, stones, or gems to the public
and may include repair, cleaning, and incidental fabrication but may not
include casting of metals. A business primarily engages in the retail sale of
jewelry or other items made of precious metals, stones, or gems to the public
if eighty percent (80%) or more of its total revenue is procured from the
retail sale of jewelry or other items made of precious metals, stones or gems.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Lodging House. The term “ROOMING HOUSE” does
not include short-term rentals.
ROW HOUSE, TOWNHOUSES: A group of single-family dwellings having a common wall,
without openings, between two (2) units. For the purpose of this title, they
shall be considered as a "dwelling, multiple".
SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA: Any dish type satellite signal receiving station or
disc antenna with an essentially solid surface, whether flat, concave, or
parabolic which is designed for receiving television, radio, or data microwave
signals from satellites or other sources, or for transmitting such signals to a
receiving station.
SHELTER, FALLOUT: A structure or portion of a structure intended to provide
protection to human life during periods of danger to human life from nuclear
fallout, air raids, storms or other emergencies, and shall be considered as an
accessory use, if not as an integral part, of the principal structure on a lot.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL: A single room or a portion thereof in single-family
dwelling, a partial or entire single-family dwelling, or a dwelling unit in a
multi-unit structure, condominium, cooperative, timeshare, or similar joint
tenancy property ownership arrangement, that is offered for rent for a period
shorter than thirty (30) consecutive days to any person other than a member of
the owner's family. The term "short-term rental" shall not include hotels,
rooming house, motels, or lodging establishments lawfully established and
licensed pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance and the Village Code, or a unit that
is used for non-residential purposes such as educational, healthcare, retail,
restaurant, banquet space, event center, or other similar uses, and "short-term
rental" shall also not include dwelling units owned by the federal government,
the State, or any of their agencies or political subdivisions and facilities
licensed by the State as health care facilities.
SMALL COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A community residence serving eight (8) or fewer
persons with disabilities in a family like atmosphere.
SPECIAL DISTRICT: A geographic area with clearly defined boundaries created by
the village for the purpose of developing or redeveloping said area within
special regulations promulgated by the village.
STORY: That portion of a building other than a basement, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or, if there
be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next
above it, including a story which has more than one-half (1/2) of its height
above grade.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof having an average clear height of
seven feet six inches (7'6") over not more than sixty percent (60%) of the
floor area.
STREET: All property dedicated or intended for public or private street,
highway, freeway or roadway purposes or subject to easements therefor.
STREET LINE: A dividing line between a lot, parcel or tract of land and a
contiguous street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
or temporary location on or in the ground or attached to something having a
permanent or temporary location on or in the ground, including, but without
limiting, the generality of the foregoing; building, advertising signs,
backstops for tennis courts, billboards, pergolas and swimming pools; provided
however, that this definition shall not include underground tanks for the
storage of any type of fuel.
SWIMMING POOL: Any temporary or permanent artificial pool or receptacle for
water installed, constructed or maintained in, on or above the ground (not
including those enclosed and located entirely within a dwelling), having a
perimeter of more than twenty five feet (25') and/or a depth of more than two
feet (2') at any point. A swimming pool shall be considered to be a main
building and use; provided, however, that a permanent, inground swimming pool
may be considered to be an accessory building or use customarily incident to a
dwelling when located on the same lot therewith and designed and used for
swimming pool or bathing in connection with such dwelling solely by the persons
living therein or their private guests. No swimming pool designed or used for
any commercial or other nonresidential purpose shall be considered to be an
accessory building or use customarily incident to a dwelling.
TRAILER: See definition of Mobile Home.
TRANSPORTATION SHELTERS: Privately owned, permanent structures on or adjoining
principal rights of way on arterial streets, erected for the purpose of
providing shelter from the weather for public mass transportation passengers
and containing up to six (6) panels of backlighted advertising.
USE, CHANGE OF: An alteration by change of use in a building heretofore
existing to a new use group which imposes other special provisions of law
governing building and zoning.
WING WALL: A short section of wall used in building construction as an
ornamental extension of the exterior wall of a building.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining
the width of a side yard, the depth of the front yard, or the depth of a rear
yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line and the nearest
vertical projection of a structure shall be used.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side lot
lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line and
the main building or any projection thereof other than the projection of the
usual steps.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot, between the side lot
lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps. On corner
lots, the rear yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which
the lot has its least dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the
rear yard shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front
yard.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the main building and the side lot line, extending
from the front yard line to the rear yard line. (Ords. 75-10-55, 77-8-7, 77-29-
48, 81-17-29, 81-36-77, 85-18-58, 87-17-70, 88-22-84, 90-16-68, 92-11-45, 93-9-
24, 94-01-01, 95-14-45, 00-5-12, 04-07-27, 12-05-17, 14-23-49, 14-27-63, 15-16-
63, 19-13-40, 19-16-65, 19-16-66, 22-16-54)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS AND CONDITIONS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Conformance With District Regulations
4-2-2: Lots
4-2-3: Use Regulations
4-2-4: Buildings And Structures Regulated
4-2-4-1: Accessory Buildings
4-2-4-2: Temporary Buildings And Structures
4-2-4-3: Abandoned Buildings
4-2-4-4: Transportation Shelters
4-2-5: Engineered Structures
4-2-6: Landscape Requirements
4-2-7: Water And Sewer Service
4-2-8: Height And Area Exceptions
4-2-9: Amendments
4-2-10: Enforcement
4-2-11: Penalty
4-2-12: Satellite Dish Antennas
4-2-13: R-3 Multi-Family Residence/R-1 Single-Family Residence Buffer
Requirement
4-2-14: Swimming Pools, Setbacks
4-2-1: CONFORMANCE WITH DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used
except for a purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is
located.
   B.   Building Height: No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein
established for the district in which the building is located.
   C.   Area: No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed
or structurally altered except in conformance with the area regulations of the
district in which the building is located.
4-2-2: LOTS:
   A.   Number Of Buildings On A Lot: Every building hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be located on a "lot" as herein defined, and in no
case shall there be more than one main building on one lot unless otherwise
specified and provided in this title.
   B.   Yards And Open Spaces:
      1.   Minimum Requirements: The minimum yards and open spaces, including
lot area per family, required by this title for each and every building
existing at the effective date hereof or for any building hereafter erected,
shall not be encroached upon or considered as yard or open space requirements
for any other building.
      2.   Front Yards: The front yard requirements on both streets of a corner
lot shall be observed for all buildings and structures including accessory
buildings. Where a building or structure is located on a lot which would be a
corner lot except that a permanent street pavement has been replaced by a green
strip, all front yard requirements shall be observed as though the building or
structure were on a corner lot.
   C.   Vision Obstructions: On any corner lot where a front or side yard is
required or provided, no building, fence, hedge or other sight obstruction
shall be placed so as to interfere with clear vision from one street to the
other across the corner 1 .
   D.   Section Line Streets: On all section line streets, the street line for
the purpose of determining building setback lines is hereby established to be
lines parallel to and fifty feet (50') from the center of such section line
street, and the building setback line shall be measured from the street line
thus defined. On all half section line streets, the street line for the purpose
of determining building setback lines is hereby established to be lines
parallel to and forty feet (40') from the center of such half section line
street, and the building setback line shall be measured from the street line
thus defined.
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 2 of this code.
4-2-3: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: All activities permitted in a given district shall be
conducted within a building or buildings erected according to the provisions of
this title and the building codes and other applicable ordinances of the
village. The use of any temporary structure or mobile unit is subject to prior
approval by the board of trustees, which shall set a time limit on such use.
Activities not conducted within a building are regulated by this title within
the categories where permitted.
   B.   Unlisted Uses: Where a use is permitted in a zoning district in which
it is not specifically listed or regulated by this title, the regulations of
the zoning district in which it is permitted to be located shall apply. In
addition, the appropriate board may set other requirements.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses: Any use which is, by its location, a nonconforming
use within that district shall be governed by the applicable rules of both the
zoning district in which it falls, as well as regulations of the district in
which it should be. In the case of conflict of regulations, the more stringent
regulations shall apply.
   D.   Miscellaneous Use Provisions:
      1.   Basements: No basement in any dwelling shall be used for, nor shall
it contain any quarters for, sleeping or cooking, unless used by the family
living above.
      2.   Half Stories: No half story shall contain cooking facilities, and
any space therein may be used only by the family living on the floor
immediately below.
4-2-4: BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES REGULATED:
4-2-4-1: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Accessory buildings, as otherwise permitted in this title, shall comply with
the following regulations:
   A.   Attached Accessory Buildings: Where an accessory building is
structurally attached to the principal building, it shall be subject to and
must conform to all regulations of this title applicable to the principal
building.
   B.   Detached Accessory Buildings, Location: No detached accessory building
shall be located closer than three feet (3') to any principal building;
provided, that any accessory building located within ten feet (10') of any
principal building shall be of one hour fire rated construction for at least
ten feet (10') in all directions of the principal building.
   C.   Construction Regulations: No accessory building may be erected prior to
the establishment or construction of the principal use of the building; except,
that a temporary building used in conjunction with the construction work only
may be permitted during the period that the principal building is being
constructed; provided further, that such temporary building shall be removed
upon completion of the construction work.
No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of
the main building has been actually commenced.
   D.   Yards: Side yards for private garages and accessory buildings shall be
three feet (3') or more, except when the building is on or extending on the
front one-half (1/2) of the lot, in which case the side yard shall be the same
as required for the main building, and in no case shall an accessory building
be closer to the street than fifteen feet (15') nor closer to the rear lot line
than five feet (5'); and provided further, that in R-1 and R-2 residence
districts no accessory building shall be located within ten feet (10') of its
rear or side lot line where either such line forms part of the front one-half
(1/2) of the side lot line of an adjacent lot. No accessory building shall be
located on any easement area. See subsection 4-13-3-2H2 of this title for
exceptions permitted in residence districts.
   E.   Residential Use Prohibited: No accessory building shall be used for
residential purposes unless otherwise provided in this title.
   F.   Garages: No garage shall be constructed to exceed eight hundred forty
(840) square feet in area nor shall any side of the garage exceed thirty five
feet (35') in length. Further, no door opening shall exceed eight feet (8') in
height nor shall the overall height of the garage exceed sixteen feet (16')
over grade at the front of the garage. No more than one garage of not more than
three (3) cars' capacity shall be constructed on any one R-1 district zoning
lot.
4-2-4-2: TEMPORARY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
Temporary buildings and/or construction trailers that are used in conjunction
with construction work only may be permitted in any district during the period
that the building is being constructed, but such temporary buildings shall be
removed upon completion of the construction work. All such temporary buildings
must be placed wholly on the property where construction is taking place.
4-2-4-3: ABANDONED BUILDINGS:
Where a building is abandoned for any reason, the owner shall, within ninety
(90) days, or if the public safety is involved, upon notice by the Village,
render the building and/or grounds harmless to the general public. This shall
include, but not be limited to, boarding up of all doors and windows, removal
of pumps, filling of underground tanks, blocking off of driveways and all
parking lots and/or areas, removal of all advertising signs and materials,
removal of all outdoor equipment, trucks, trailers or other vehicles. The owner
shall also keep the weeds cut and shall either satisfactorily maintain the
building or have it removed at his expense.
4-2-4-4: TRANSPORTATION SHELTERS:
Transportation shelters may only be erected with the prior specific approval of
the Zoning and Planning Commission and the President and Board of Trustees.
Public hearings for variations of zoning are not required for the placement of
the transportation shelters on public rights of way or on privately owned
property; provided, that prior approval was given by the respective boards or
commissions. All transportation shelters and the advertising thereon shall be
covered by the clauses and provisions of a specific contract which shall be
executed by the transportation shelter corporation, firm, person or
association, and the President and Board of Trustees.
4-2-5: ENGINEERED STRUCTURES:
All required structures such as retention/detention basins, flood reservoirs or
other similar engineered structures shall be wholly upon the property to be
served. Where such structures will serve land under more than one owner or land
in more than one zoning district, a proportionate amount of the area of the
structure shall be upon the site served. The Zoning and Planning Commission
shall determine the acceptability of the location of the engineered structure
when unique land configurations are involved.
4-2-6: LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The landscaping and screening requirements specified herein
are intended to foster aesthetically pleasing development which will protect
and preserve the appearance, character, health, safety, and welfare of the
community. Specifically, these regulations are intended to increase the
compatibility of adjacent uses, and, in doing so, minimize the harmful impact
of noise, dust and other debris, motor vehicle headlight glare or other
artificial light intrusions, and other objectionable activities or impacts
conducted or created by an adjoining or nearby use.
   B.   Scope And Application:
      1.   Scope Of Regulations: Landscaping, in accordance with the provisions
of this Section, will be required for all new construction and development
activities and for all redevelopments which are determined to exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the estimated market value of a structure or structures
located upon an improved parcel or lot.
         Except as required by subsection M of this Section, all single-family
residential developments and redevelopments shall be exempted from the
regulations set forth in this Section.
      2.   Landscape Plan Required: A landscape plan shall be required for all
new construction, development, and redevelopment activities identified in the
scope of regulations. Such landscape plan shall conform with the requirements
specified in this Section. Landscape plans must be approved by the Director of
Quality Control prior to the issuance of a building permit for exterior
construction and development.
      3.   Content Of Landscape Plan: All landscape plans submitted for
approval shall contain, or have attached thereto, the following information:
         a.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures, parking lots and drives, roadways and rights of way, sidewalks,
bicycle paths, signs, refuse disposal areas, bicycle parking areas, fences,
freestanding electrical equipment, tot lots and other recreational facilities,
and other freestanding structural features as determined necessary by the
Director of Quality Control. Said plan shall be drawn to a scale which is
coordinated with and identical to the scale used for site and engineering
plans.
         b.   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and common
names, of all proposed planting materials.
         c.   The location of existing buildings, structures and plant
materials on adjacent property within one hundred feet (100') of the site.
         d.   Existing and proposed grading of the site, including proposed
berming, indicating contours, at one foot (1') intervals.
         e.   Specification of the type and boundaries of all proposed ground
cover.
         f.   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and common
names, of all existing planting materials to be preserved, along with specific
plans and procedures to protect and maintain said planting materials.
         g.   Elevations of all fences proposed for location on the site.
         h.   Elevations, cross sections and other details as determined
necessary by the Director of Quality Control.
         i.   Plans for landscaping shall be prepared by a professional
landscape architect or landscape designer.
      4.   Landscape Plan Review And Approval: A landscape plan shall be
submitted by the developer for review and approval by the Director of Quality
Control. In the event that such plan review is deemed to be unusually large,
unique, or complicated, the Director may send them to an independent, third-
party agency for plan review. The cost of such review shall be borne by the
developer or applicant and is in addition to such other fees charged by the
Village.
   C.   Selection, Installation And Maintenance Of Plant Materials:
      1.   Section: Planting materials used in conformance with the provisions
of this Section shall be of good quality, of a species normally grown in
northeastern Illinois, and capable of withstanding the extremes of individual
site microclimates. Size and density of plant material, both at the time of
planting and at maturity, are additional criteria which must be considered when
selecting plant materials. Shrubs, in particular, shall be properly placed in
accordance with approved plans.
      2.   Installation: All landscaping materials shall be installed in
accordance with the current planting procedures established by the American
Association of Nurserymen.
      3.   Maintenance:
         a.   Responsibility: The owner of the premises shall be responsible
for the maintenance, repair, and replacement of all landscaping materials and
barriers, including refuse disposal areas, as may be required by the provisions
of this Section.
         b.   Landscaping Materials: All landscaping materials shall be
maintained in good condition so as to present a healthy, neat and orderly
appearance, and plant material not in this condition shall be replaced, when
necessary, and shall be kept free of refuse and debris.
         c.   Fences and Walls: Fences, walls, and other barriers shall be
maintained in good repair.
   D.   Design Criteria: Landscape plans described above shall be prepared
based on the following design criteria. The evaluation and approval shall also
be based on these design criteria.
      1.   Scale and Nature of Landscaping Material: The scale and nature of
landscaping materials should be appropriate to the size of the building and the
lot. Large scaled buildings, for example, should generally be complemented by
larger scaled plants. The plants' diameters, as shown on the landscape plans,
preferably should reflect the plants' anticipated spreads that will be reached
at maturity.
      2.   Selection of Plant Material: Plant material should be selected for
its form, texture, color, and concern for its ultimate growth. The use of
silver maples, box elders, russian olives, lombard poplars, and other weak
wooded species shall not be permitted (see full listing of restricted and
recommended species contained herein). Plants which are potentially messy or
harmful should not be used in high traffic areas such as sidewalks, building
entrances, parking lots or playgrounds.
      3.   Evergreens: Evergreens should be incorporated into the landscape
treatment of a site, particularly in those areas where screening parking lots
from dedicated public rights of way or property zoned for residential use is
required. However, evergreens should not be used in areas where salt tolerance
is expected.
      4.   Shade Trees: All shade trees shall have a minimum trunk size of two
and one-half inches (21/2") in diameter upon installation, as measured eighteen
inches (18") above the established ground level.
      5.   Softening of Walls and Fences: Plant material should be placed
intermittently against long expanses of building walls, fences, and other
barriers to soften the appearance of the structure.
      6.   Planting Beds: Planting beds should be mulched with bark chips,
shredded hardwood, feather rocks, river gravel or similar materials to reduce
maintenance and weed growth. Organic mulching is highly recommended.
      7.   Detention/Retention Basins and Ponds: Detention/retention basins and
ponds shall be designed and landscaped as aesthetic amenities. Such landscaping
should include shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, and/
or other planting materials. Flood tolerant plant species are recommended where
it is expected that planting materials will be inundated with seasonal flood
waters.
      8.   Watering Plant Material: A permanent means of watering plant
material should be provided. Installation of an automatic underground
sprinkling system is recommended.
      9.   Energy Conservation:
         a.   Deciduous trees should be placed on the south and west sides of
buildings to provide shade from the summer sun.
         b.   Evergreens and other plant materials should be concentrated on
the north and northwest sides of buildings to dissipate the effect of winter
winds.
      10.   Preservation of Existing Plant Material: Existing plant material
should, wherever practical as determined by the Director of Quality Control, be
preserved and incorporated into the landscape treatment of a site.
      11.   Berming: Earthen berms and existing topography should be, whenever
determined practical by the Director of Quality Control, incorporated into the
landscape treatment of a site, particularly when combined with plant material
to facilitate screening.
   E.   Right of Way Landscaping:
      1.   Applicability: Where a parcel abuts a dedicated public right of way,
landscaping shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of this
Section.
      2.   Graded and Sodded: The unpaved portion of a public right of way
shall be fine graded and sodded, except for public sidewalks and driveway
aprons.
      3.   Parkway Trees:
         a.   Quantity: Parkway trees shall be provided at the equivalent of no
more than forty feet (40') apart in the street right of way adjacent to the
parcel.
         b.   Spacing: Such trees may be clustered or spaced linearly in the
street right of way so as not to cause a sight restriction and as determined
appropriate by the Director of Quality Control.
         c.   Size: Parkway trees shall have a minimum trunk size of two and
one-half inches (21/2") in diameter, as measured eighteen inches (18") above
the established ground level at the tree location.
         d.   Species: Parkway trees shall be limited to the following species.
However, a variety of compatible species from this list should be included in
the planting plan for a specific site or development:
            (1)   Little leaf linden (Tilia cordata)
            (2)   Maple, excluding silver maple and other similar softwood
species (Acer saccarum, Acer rubrum, Acer plantanoldes)
            (3)   Hackberry (Celtis occidentalus)
            (4)   Ginkgo, male (Ginko biloba)
            (5)   Oak (Quercus macrocarpa, Quercus rubra)
            (6)   Bradford pear (Pyrus calleryana "Bradford")
            (7)   Kentucky coffee tree, male (Gymnocladus diolcus)
            (8)   Zelkova (Zelkova serrata)
            (9)   Elm, disease resistant
         e.   Landscape material not recommended, due to over-planting in
recent years:
            (1)   Ash
            (2)   Honey locust
            (3)   Pin oak
         f.   Landscape material strictly prohibited:
            (1)   Box elder
            (2)   Ailanthus (Tree of Heaven)
            (3)   Any species of hawthorn
            (4)   Soft (silver) maple
            (5)   Any variety of poplar
            (6)   Any species of evergreen conifer
            (7)   Willow
            (8)   Elm (not disease resistant)
            (9)   Catalpa
   F.   Parking Lot Landscaping:
      1.   Applicability: All parking lots (designed for 15 or more parking
spaces, as specified in Title 4, Chapter 13), shall provide landscaping in
accordance with the provisions of this Section.
      2.   Interior Landscaping:
         a.   Area Required: Not less than five percent (5%) of the interior of
a parking lot shall be devoted to landscaping. Landscaping areas located along
the perimeter of a parking lot as required in subsection F3 of this Section
shall not be included toward satisfying this requirement. Moreover, foundation
landscaping areas as specified in subsection H of this Section shall not be
included toward satisfying the interior parking lot landscaping requirements.
         b.   Landscaped Areas: The "landscaped areas" defined in subsection
F2a, above, shall be delineated and improved in conformance with the following:
            (1)   Interior parking lot landscaping areas (planting islands)
shall be dispersed throughout the parking lot in a design and configuration
satisfactory to the Director of Quality Control.
            (2)   Interior parking lot landscaping areas shall be a minimum of
one hundred twenty (120) square feet in area and shall be a minimum of seven
feet (7') in width, as measured from back of curb to back of curb.
            (3)   Landscape Material: The plant material used to improve the
"landscape areas" defined above shall conform to the following:
               A.    Type: The primary plant materials used in parking lots
shall be shade tree species in conformance with subsection E3d, above.
Ornamental trees, shrubbery, hedges, and other plant materials may be used to
supplement the shade tree plantings, but shall not be the sole contribution to
such landscaping.
               B.    Quantity: One shade tree shall be provided for every one
hundred twenty (120) square feet of landscaping area.
               C.    Ground Cover: A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of every
interior parking lot landscaping area shall be improved with approved ground
cover, as determined appropriate by the Director of Quality Control.
      3.   Perimeter Parking Lot Landscaping: Where a parking lot is located
within a required yard, or within twenty feet (20') of a lot line, perimeter
landscaping shall be required along the corresponding edge of the parking lot
in conformance with the following provisions.
         a.   Landscape Area: Where perimeter landscaping is required, it shall
be provided within landscape areas five feet (5') in width, as measured from
the back of curb and excluding any parking space overhang area.
         b.   Requirements Along Front and Corner Side Yards:
            (1)   Across from Residential Property: Where a parking lot is
located across a dedicated public right of way from property zoned for
residential use, the following landscape improvements shall be required.
               A.    Plant Material: Continuous landscaping of evergreen or
dense deciduous shrubs shall be provided across one hundred percent (100%) of
the street frontage to a minimum height of four feet (4'). The height of such
shrubs may be reduced if berming is provided so that the combined height of
shrubs and berming is not less than four feet (4'). In addition, shade or
ornamental trees shall be provided within this landscape area, with the number
of trees not less than one tree per fifty feet (50') of frontage with the
number of trees required, rounded to the nearest whole number. However, where
parkway trees are required as provided for in subsection E3, above, such
parkway trees may be counted toward compliance with perimeter landscape
requirements.
Additional plantings may be provided, subject to the approval of the Director
of Quality Control. All landscaping described above shall conform to Section
9-2-2.
               B.    Ground Cover: Except where occupied by planting beds, all
landscaping areas located in front and corner side yards shall be planted with
ground cover as determined appropriate by the Director of Quality Control.
            (2)   Across from Nonresidential Property: Where a parking lot is
located across a dedicated public right of way from property zoned for
nonresidential use, the following landscape improvements shall be required.
               A.    Plant Material: Landscaping of evergreen or dense
deciduous shrubs shall be provided across fifty percent (50%) of the street
frontage to a minimum height of four feet (4'). The height of such shrubs may
be reduced if berming is provided so that the combined height of shrubs and
berming is not less than four feet (4'). Additional plantings may be provided,
subject to the approval of the Director of Quality Control. All landscaping
described above shall conform to Section
9-2-2 of this Code.
               B.    Ground Cover: Except where occupied by planting beds, all
landscaping areas located in front and corner side yards shall be planted with
ground cover as determined appropriate by the Director of Quality Control.
         c.   Requirements Along Rear and Interior Side Yards: Where the
provisions of subsection G, below, do not apply, landscaping shall be provided
in conformance with the following requirements.
            (1)   Plant Material: Where a parking lot abuts property zoned for
nonresidential use, landscaping shall be provided across fifty percent (50%) of
that portion of the parking lot abutting the property line to a minimum height
of four feet (4'). The height of such shrubs may be reduced if berming is
provided so that the combined height of shrubs and berming is not less than
four feet (4'). Such plantings shall be concentrated into shrub masses,
typically containing seven (7) to nine (9) shrubs per shrub mass. Additional
plantings may be provided, subject to the approval of the Director of Quality
Control.
            (2)   Ground Cover: Except where occupied by planting beds, all
side and rear yard perimeter parking lot landscaping shall be planted with
ground cover, as determined appropriate by the Director of Quality Control.
   G.   Transitional Yard Landscaping: Where transitional landscape yards are
required in the district regulations of each district, such landscape yards
shall be improved in conformance with the following requirements which shall be
provided in addition to other required landscaping.
      1.   Size of Transitional Landscape Yards: The size of transitional
landscape yards in the districts identified below shall be as follows:
         a.   C-3 Districts: Where a lot in the C-3 District abuts a lot in the
R1, R2 or R3 District, a transitional landscape yard thirty feet (30') in width
shall be provided along such lot line.
         b.   C-1 and C-2 Districts: Where a lot in the C-1 or C-2 District
abuts a lot in a residence district, a transitional landscape yard ten feet
(10') in width shall be provided along such lot line.
         c.   O Districts: Where a lot in the O District abuts a lot in a
residence district, a transitional landscape yard thirty feet (30') in width
shall be provided along such lot line.
         d.   M-1 Districts: Where a lot in the M-1 District abuts a lot in a
residence district, a transitional landscape yard thirty feet (30') in width
shall be provided along such lot line.
         e.   PK Districts: Where a lot in the PK District abuts a lot in a
residence district, a transitional landscape yard ten feet (10') in width shall
be provided along such lot line.
      2.   Transitional Landscape Yard Improvements: Within the "transitional
landscape yards" defined above, required planting and fencing shall be required
in conformance with the following provisions.
         a.   C-3 Districts: Within required transitional landscape yards, the
following improvements shall be required:
            (1)   Shade trees shall be required in conformance with subsection
E3d, above, with one tree every forty feet (40') along the entire length of the
landscape yard. Shade trees may be clustered subject to the approval of the
Director of Quality Control.
            (2)   Shrub masses, at least two (2) rows deep and with shrubs
alternately spaced, shall be provided along seventy five percent (75%) of the
length of the landscape yard. Shrubs shall be installed at a height of three
feet (3') and shall reach a mature height of not less than six feet (6'). Shrub
masses may be curvilinear in shape.
            (3)   Areas not planted with trees or shrubs shall be maintained as
lawn.
         b.   C-1 and C-2 Districts: Within required transitional landscape
yards, the following improvements shall be required.
            (1)   A solid masonry fence constructed of the same face brick
material used for the principal building, the design of which shall be subject
to the approval of the Director of Quality Control, shall be provided along the
entire length of the landscape yard. Such fence shall be six feet (6') in
height and shall be located not less than eight feet (8') from the lot line and
shall conform to subsection
4-13-3-2E.
            (2)   A continuous evergreen or dense deciduous shrub hedge
extending the entire length of the landscape yard shall be planted a minimum of
two and one-half feet (21/2') on center from the fence described above. The
shrub hedge shall be installed at height of three feet (3') and shall be
planted on the outside of the fence. The spacing of shrubs shall be five feet
(5') on center, or as approved by the Director of Quality Control.
            (3)   Shade trees shall be required in conformance with subsection
E3d, above, with one tree every forty feet (40') along the entire length of the
landscape yard. Shade trees shall be located five feet (5') on center to the
outside of the fence described above. Shade trees may be clustered subject to
the approval of the Director of Quality Control.
            (4)   The area between the shrub hedge and the lot line shall be
either sodded and maintained as lawn or provided with ground cover or mulch.
            (5)   Planted areas shall be maintained in mulch and kept free of
weeds.
         c.   O Districts: Within required transitional landscape yards, the
following improvements shall be required:
            (1)   All service areas shall be screened by a solid masonry fence
constructed of the same face brick material used for the principal building,
the design of which shall be subject to the approval of the Director of Quality
Control. Such fence shall be six feet (6') in height and shall be located on
the inside edge of the landscape area.
            (2)   Shade trees shall be required in conformance with subsection
E3d, above, with one tree every forty feet (40') along the entire length of the
landscape yard. Shade trees may be clustered subject to the approval of the
Director of Quality Control.
            (3)   Shrub masses, at least two (2) rows deep and with shrubs
alternately spaced, shall be provided along seventy five percent (75%) of the
length of the landscape yard. Shrubs shall be installed at a height of three
feet (3') and shall reach a mature height of not less than six feet (6'). Shrub
masses may be curvilinear in shape.
            (4)   Areas not planted with trees or shrubs shall be maintained as
lawn or ground cover.
         d.   M-1 Districts: Within required transitional landscape yards, the
following improvements shall be required.
            (1)   A solid masonry fence constructed of the same face brick
material used for the principal building, the design of which shall be subject
to the approval of the Director of Quality Control, shall be provided along the
entire length of the landscape yard. Such fence shall be six feet (6') in
height and shall be located along the inside edge of the landscape area.
            (2)   Shade trees shall be required in conformance with subsection
E3d, above, with one tree every forty feet (40') along the entire length of the
landscape yard. Shade trees may be clustered subject to the approval of the
Director of Quality Control.
            (3)   Shrub masses, at least two (2) rows deep and with shrubs
alternately spaced, shall be provided along seventy five percent (75%) of the
length of the landscape yard. Shrubs shall be installed at a height of three
feet (3') and shall reach a mature height of not less than six feet (6'). Shrub
masses may be curvilinear in shape.
            (4)   Areas not planted with trees or shrubs shall be maintained as
lawn or ground cover.
         e.   PK Districts: Within required transitional landscape yards, the
following improvements shall be required:
            (1)   A solid masonry fence constructed of the same face brick
material used for the principal building, the design of which shall be subject
to the approval of the Director of Quality Control, shall be provided along the
entire length of the landscape yard. Such fence shall be six feet (6') in
height and shall be located not less than eight feet (8') from the lot line and
shall conform to subsection
4-13-3-2E.
            (2)   A continuous evergreen or dense deciduous shrub hedge
extending the entire length of the landscape yard shall be planted a minimum of
two and one-half feet (21/2') on center from the fence described above. The
shrub hedge shall be installed at a height of three feet (3') and shall be
planted on the outside of the fence. The spacing of shrubs shall be five feet
(5') on center, or as approved by the Director of Quality Control.
            (3)   Shade trees shall be required in conformance with subsection
E3d, above, with one tree every forty feet (40') along the entire length of the
landscape yard. Shade trees shall be located five feet (5') on center to the
outside of the fence described above. Shade trees may be clustered subject to
the approval of the Director of Quality Control.
            (4)   The area between the shrub hedge and the lot line shall be
either sodded and maintained as lawn or provided with ground cover or mulch.
            (5)   Planted areas shall be maintained in mulch and kept free of
weeds.
   H.   Foundation Landscaping: Landscaping shall be required at the base of
all principal buildings to help achieve harmony between the buildings and the
landscape in conformance with the requirements set forth below:
      1.   Required Landscape Area: Unless otherwise authorized by the Director
of Quality Control, a landscaped area a minimum of ten feet (10') in width
shall be located around the perimeter of all buildings. Retail commercial
buildings may, at the discretion of the Director of Quality Control, be
exempted from this requirement if such landscape area would interfere with
access to the buildings from the parking lot. Where such exemptions are made,
landscaping equivalent in area and plantings to required foundation landscaping
area shall be added to other required landscaping as described in this Section.
      2.   Coverage: Required foundation landscaping areas shall remain open
and free of all paving except where walks to buildings and other access paving
is required.
      3.   Plant Material: Foundation landscaping shall be provided for all
principal buildings. Such landscaping shall consist of shade or ornamental
trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other herbaceous plant material.
Particular attention shall be paid toward screening mechanical equipment,
bicycle parking areas and loading docks, softening large expanses of building
walls; and accenting building entrances and architectural features.
      4.   Ground Cover: Except where occupied by planting beds, all foundation
landscaping areas shall be sodded (if substantial enough for mowing) or planted
with another comparable ground cover, or landscape stone, as determined
appropriate by the Director of Quality Control.
   I.   Perimeter Lot Landscaping: To help enhance the attractiveness of
individual properties within the Village and provide physical and visual
separation between individual properties, landscaping along the periphery of
each lot shall be required.
      1.   Applicability: All lots, except those in the C-1, C-2, R-2, R-3 and
planned R-2/R-3 Districts, shall provide perimeter landscaping in accordance
with the provisions of this subsection. Also, the requirements of this Section
shall not apply where the provisions of subsection F or G of this Section are
applicable.
      2.   Required Landscape Improvements: Landscaping shall be required
around the perimeter of a lot, shall be located within a landscape yard not
less than five feet (5') in width and shall be in conformance with the
following:
         a.   Shade Trees: Shade trees, conforming to the provisions of
subsection E3d of this Section, shall be provided along the abutting property
line. The number of trees required shall be equivalent to one tree for every
seventy five feet (75') of lot line length. Such trees may be clustered or
spaced linearly as determined appropriate by the Director of Quality Control.
         b.   Other Plant Material: Other landscaping materials including
berms, ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other herbaceous
planting material, as determined necessary by the Director of Quality Control,
shall be provided at appropriate locations along the abutting property line.
         c.   Ground Cover: Except where occupied by planting beds, all
perimeter landscape areas shall be sodded (if substantial enough for mowing) or
planted with another comparable ground cover, as determined appropriate by the
Director of Quality Control.
   J.   Screening Of Refuse Disposal Areas: All refuse disposal areas shall be
screened on all sides by a solid masonry fence or an equivalent material,
approved by the Director of Quality Control, to a height of not less than six
feet (6') but not more than eight feet (8').
   K.   Innovative Landscaping: Innovative landscape design is encouraged and
shall be considered as a positive attribute in connection with any request for
a variation from the requirements of this Section.
   L.   Changes To Approved Landscape Plans: Any change or deviation to an
approved landscape plan, which is in conformance with this Section, shall
require the approval of the Director of Quality Control. Changes which do not
conform to this Section shall be subject to the procedures for a variation as
established in Section
2-2-2 of this Code.
   M.   Single-Family Residential Landscaping: All new single- family
residences in relation to which an occupancy permit was/is issued after January
1, 1997, shall, on or before July 1, 1997, or six (6) months from the issuance
of an occupancy certificate by the Village, whichever is later, comply with the
following landscaping standards:
      1.   All unpaved portions of the public right of way (parkway) abutting
the property upon which said residence is located shall be fine graded and
sodded or seeded with grass seed, except for public sidewalks and driveway
aprons. Said area may contain additional live landscaping only as provided in
subsection E of this Section. The use of decorative stone, rock, gravel,
bricks, landscaping timbers or other nonlive landscaping materials shall be
allowed on the unpaved portion of publics rights of way (parkways), provided
said materials shall not cover more than twenty five percent (25%) of the
landscaped (nonimpervious surface) area of the parkway.
      2.   All areas of the property upon which said residence is located, not
covered by impervious surface (i.e., structures, sidewalks or driveways), shall
be fine graded and: a) sodded; b) seeded with grass seed; c) covered with live
landscaping; or d) any combination of a), b) and c). Decorative stone, rock,
gravel, bricks, landscaping timbers or other nonlive landscaping materials may
be used only to edge planting beds, trees, or other live landscaping, or as
ground cover within planting beds.
      3.   Where grass seed is used, it shall be the obligation of the property
owner to continue to reseed if necessary so as to produce a lawn.
4-2-7: WATER AND SEWER SERVICE:
All buildings erected or altered shall be served by the water and sanitary
sewer systems of the village.
4-2-8: HEIGHT AND AREA EXCEPTIONS:
The district regulations hereinafter set forth in this section qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in
this title.
   A.   Public Buildings: Public, semipublic or public service buildings,
hospitals, schools or institutions, when permitted by a special use, may be
erected to a height not exceeding eighty five feet (85'), and churches and
temples may be erected to a height not exceeding seventy five feet (75') if the
building is set back from each yard line at least one foot (1') for each foot
of additional building height above the height limit otherwise provided in the
district in which the building is located.
   B.   Residential Dwellings: Single-family and two-family dwellings may be
increased in height by not more than an additional fifteen feet (15') when the
side yards (in total) and the rear yard are increased over the yard
requirements of the district in which the dwelling is located by one foot (1')
for each additional one foot (1'), or portion thereof, in building height
beyond the thirty foot (30') maximum building height limitation of subsection
4-5A-3A or
4-5B-3A1 of this title. In no event, however, shall any such dwelling exceed
two and one-half (21/2) stories in height.
   C.   Chimneys, Cooling Towers, Etc.: Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, fire towers, monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts,
tanks, water towers, ornamental spires, church steeples, radio towers or
necessary mechanical appurtenances, may be erected to the maximum height in
accordance with the district provisions in which the structure is located and
as provided in this section.
   D.   Projections Into Yards: Every part of a required yard shall be open to
the sky, unobstructed, except for accessory buildings in a rear yard, and
except for the horizontal projections of roof overhangs, sills, cornices and
ornamental features projections not to exceed twenty four inches (24"),
accessory buildings not to exceed twelve inches (12").
   E.   Fences: Fences may be erected on the lot lines and in the required
yards, but such fences shall conform to all standards and requirements of the
ordinances of the Village, from time to time, in force.
   F.   Fire Escapes: Fire escapes may project into a rear yard not more than
five feet (5'), and the ordinary projections of chimneys and flues into the
rear yard shall be permitted.
   G.   Yards:
      1.   Side Yards: For the purpose of this side yard regulation, a two-
family row house or a multiple-family dwelling or multiple dwelling shall be
considered as one building or structure.
   H.   High-Rise Buildings: Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
exclude high-rise apartment buildings in Planned R-3 Districts and high-rise
office buildings or structures in the O Office District, when recommended by
the Zoning and Planning Commission pursuant to Title 2, Chapter 1 of this Code.
Further, no such building or structure may be erected to exceed a height of
eighty five feet (85').
   I.   Conflicting Regulations: Whenever any ordinance or deed restriction
regulates the front yard or setback requirements along any street in any
district and the requirements of such ordinance or deed restriction are greater
than the front yard regulations of this Title, the provisions of such ordinance
or deed restriction shall apply and shall be deemed superior to the front yard
regulations of this Title.
4-2-9: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Amendment Of Regulations, Hearing: The regulations imposed and the
districts created under this Zoning Title may be amended from time to time by
ordinance after this Title has gone into effect, but no such amendments shall
be made without a hearing before the Zoning and Planning Commission. The
applicant requesting an amendment of regulations and districts shall follow the
procedure as set forth in Section
2-1-7 of this Code.
   B.   Costs: Before any action is taken upon any application as provided in
this Section, the applicant shall pay to the Village the sum of two hundred
dollars ($200.00), no part of which shall be refundable, to cover the cost of
the hearing. This payment shall be credited to the General Corporate Fund of
the Village.
4-2-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Generally: It shall be the duty of the Village Manager and the Director
of the Office of Quality Control to enforce this Title. It shall also be the
duty of the officers and employees of the Village, and especially of the Police
Department to assist the Village Manager and the Director of the Office of
Quality Control by reporting upon new construction, reconstruction or land uses
or upon seeming violations.
   B.   Substandard Structures, Eminent Domain: The Village may acquire by
purchase, condemnation or otherwise any buildings or structures which do not
conform to the standards fixed by the Village under 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-13-1 et seq., and all land which is necessary or appropriate for
the rehabilitation or redevelopment of any area blighted by substandard
buildings or structures; may remove or demolish all substandard buildings and
structures so acquired; may hold and use any remaining property for public
purposes; and may sell, lease or exchange such property as is not required for
public purposes subject to the provisions of this Title.
   C.   Proceedings To Prevent Violation: In case any building or structure is
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any
building, structure or land is used in violation of this Title or of any
ordinance or other regulation made under the authority conferred thereby, the
proper Village authorities, or any owner or tenant of real property in the same
contiguous zoning district as the building or structure in question, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding
to:
      1.   Prevent the unlawful construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance or use.
      2.   Prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or land.
      3.   Prevent any illegal act, conduct of business or use in or about the
premises.
      4.   Restrain, correct or abate the violation.
When any such action is instituted by an owner or tenant, notice of such action
shall be served upon the Village at the time suit is begun, by serving a copy
of the complaint on the Village Manager. No such action may be maintained until
such notice has been given.
4-2-11: PENALTY:
Any person or agents, employees or contractors of such person who violates,
disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists enforcement
of any provision of this Title shall be subject to a fine of not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense; and each day a
violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
4-2-12: SATELLITE DISH ANTENNAS:
   A.   Village Policy: It is the stated policy of the Village that the
installation of satellite dish antennas and equipment can, unless controlled,
adversely affect health, safety and aesthetic values and objectives of the
Village and its residents in all zoning districts, and, in particular, in
residential zoning districts. The Village considers its residential character
with natural landscaping to be an extremely important aspect of the community's
quality of life. Great care is taken to protect these aesthetic values through
preservation of natural resources and protection of the visual environment.
One of the very important means by which this goal can be achieved is by
recognizing that satellite dish antennas of all sizes, shapes, varieties and
uses constitute physical additions and potential hazards to the Village of such
character that their construction, placement, installation and use requires
close examination and constant review by the Village. Satellite dish antennas
are structures quite different in appearance from typical structures
anticipated by this Code and the installation of satellite dish antennas may
not be compatible with existing structures and residential land uses in the
Village. The appearance of the "dish" from neighboring properties and the
removal of desirable vegetation to allow placement of the "dish" are major
negative consequences of such "dishes".
In addition, it is extremely important that all safety aspects be addressed to
protect persons and property, including wind loads, sight lines on roadways,
and other factors not presently anticipated.
That in view of the foregoing, in order to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the Village, and to provide for reasonable regulation, all exterior
satellite dish antennas, including all forms of receivers of satellite
transmissions, shall be considered structures subject to the terms of this
Section and all other applicable provisions of this Code.
   B.   Permits And Regulations: Under the Illinois Compiled Statutes which
grant the Village the right to regulate and limit the intensity of lot areas,
and to fix standards to which buildings and structures shall conform, to
promote the public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare, together with
its home rule powers, the Department of Quality Control shall receive
applications and issue both building and electrical permits for the
installation of all satellite dish antennas or any dish-type satellite signal
receiving stations (hereafter collectively referred to as "satellite dishes").
Said application shall be made on a form provided by the Village and, when
submitted, shall be accompanied by a certified technological statement signed
by the installer (described below), and an as-built sketch of the subject
property, drawn to scale, or a plat of survey of same, showing the following:
      1.   The exact location of the satellite dish in relation to the lot
lines and side and rear yard setback lines of the subject property;
      2.   The dimensions of the proposed satellite dish, including its
diameter and its height above the level of its base;
      3.   The proposed general direction in which the satellite dish will be
faced;
      4.   The location of all existing improvements, buildings and structures
located on the subject property where the satellite dish is proposed to be
located;
      5.   The location of the principal structure, building or dwelling and
any auxiliary structures on the immediate adjacent properties;
      6.   The location of the existing vegetation on the subject property; and
      7.   The type and exact location of screening to be installed on the
subject property around the satellite dish.
The certified technological statement, signed by the installer of the satellite
dish, must state the specific reason(s) why the satellite dish must be situated
at a particular location on the subject property, and any screening limitations
in regard to the specific location selected.
Prior to final installation of the proposed satellite dish, any change in the
information contained in the application or any of its components, including
any change as to information contained on the as-built sketch of the subject
property or plat of survey, shall be documented by the applicant, in writing,
and shall be submitted by the applicant to the Department of Quality Control.
The Department of Quality Control shall make sure that said change(s) do not
violate any provision of this Code and, if no violation exists, said Department
shall amend the application to reflect said changes.
In reviewing an application, the Department of Quality Control shall make sure
the satellite dish meets the following additional requirements:
      1.   Satellite dishes shall not be linked to receivers which are not
located on the same lot as the satellite dish.
      2.   In residential districts, satellite dishes shall be located only in
rear yards, as defined by this Title, and shall be located entirely behind the
principal building or structure located on the subject property. Where the
principal building or structure on a lot immediately adjacent to the subject
property is set back farther into the rear yard than the principal building or
structure on the subject property, the satellite dish shall not be located in
that part of the rear yard of the subject property between the principal
building or structure on the subject property and a line drawn across the
subject property, said line being an extension of the exterior wall of the
principal building or structure on the immediately adjacent lot(s) which is
located nearest the rear lot line. In nonresidential districts, satellite
dishes shall be located only in rear yards or on the roof. If the satellite
dish is mounted on the rooftop, it shall be reviewed by, and the design
certified by, an engineer or architect who is licensed in the State of
Illinois, and said installation shall comply with all applicable building code
1  provisions.
      3.   No part of the satellite dish, in any of its positions, or its base,
shall be located closer than ten feet (10') from the inner side yard lines in
residential districts, five feet (5') from the inner side yard lines in
nonresidential districts, and ten feet (10') from the rear lot line in all
districts.
      4.   The applicant shall provide an earth berm, fence, walls, arbors or
other appropriate landscaping, including trees, shrubs, bushes and hedges, in
accordance with the screening set forth in the as-built sketch of the subject
property or plat of survey, to screen the satellite dish as completely as
possible, without preventing reception by such satellite dish, so as to conceal
the satellite dish from view of the adjoining properties and public and private
streets the year round, and to preserve the aesthetic character of the
neighborhood in which the satellite dish is installed.
      5.   Front yard or side yard installation shall not be permitted.
      6.   Roof mounted installation shall not be permitted except in
nonresidential districts.
      7.   The height of the satellite dish, or any portion thereof, shall not
extend in any event above fifteen feet (15') from ground level when located in
a rear yard, or above fifteen feet (15') from roof level when roof mounted.
      8.   The maximum diameter of any satellite dish shall not exceed ten feet
(10').
      9.   The satellite dish must be constructed of noncombustible and
corrosive resistant material and be erected in a secure wind resistant manner
and be adequately grounded for protection against a direct strike of lightning.
      10.   In residential districts, no more than one satellite dish per lot
shall be allowed.
   C.   Variations: Where strict compliance with any of the aforementioned
requirements in subsection B of this section would prevent reception by the
satellite dish, the applicant may petition the Zoning and Planning Commission
for a variation from the requirement(s) which would prevent reception. At the
time the petition for variation is heard, the petitioner shall be required to
furnish an affidavit setting forth the names and addresses of the persons who
paid the taxes during the last preceding year on each lot or parcel of property
lying within the village, and within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the
boundary lines of the lot or parcel on which the variation is requested, and
stating that written notice of the hearing on said petition for variation has
been served to said owners of record at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
date of the meeting at which said petition is being heard, and certifying that
owners of tax exempt properties within the same one hundred fifty feet (150')
of the boundaries have been notified.
The notices to the property owners of record shall include, but not be limited
to:
      1.   Time, date and place of the meeting at which said petition will be
heard;
      2.   Location of the property by legal description, real estate index
number and common address;
      3.   A brief description of the variation being sought; and
      4.   A brief description of the proposed location of the satellite dish
if the variation is granted.
Evidence that notices have been mailed twenty (20) days prior to the meeting at
which said petition is being heard shall be accepted as meeting this
notification requirement.
A variation shall only be allowed to the extent necessary to allow for
reception by the satellite dish and upon findings by the Zoning and Planning
Commission that: a) strict compliance with the requirements of subsection B of
this section, by the applicant, would prevent reception by the satellite dish,
and b) the variation requested is the variation which will have the most
minimal negative effect on the character of the surrounding properties and
neighborhood, while allowing for reception. The burden shall be upon the
applicant to show that strict compliance with the requirements of subsection B
of this section would prevent reception by the satellite dish and that the
variation requested is the variation which will have the most minimal negative
effect on the character of the surrounding properties and neighborhood, while
allowing for reception. All variations shall be subject to final approval by
the president and board of trustees.
   D.   Application Of Other Codes: The provisions of the building and
electrical codes of the village including, but not limited to, those provisions
in regard to permits and inspections, and fees in relation thereto, shall be
applicable to the installation or erection of a satellite dish.
   E.   Penalty: Any person including, but not limited to, any owner of
property or any satellite dish antenna installer, who owns, operates,
maintains, places, constructs, erects or otherwise causes any satellite dish
antenna to be in violation of any provision of this section shall be required
to remove the satellite dish antenna which is in violation of the provisions of
this section, and shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense; and each day a violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense. Said fine shall be in
addition to, and not in lieu of, the removal of the satellite dish antenna
which is in violation of the provisions of this section.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 6 of this Code.
4-2-13: R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE/R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE BUFFER
REQUIREMENT:
Notwithstanding the underlying zoning, where an R-3 multi- family residence use
abuts an R-1 single-family residence use, the owner of the R-3 multi-family
residence use shall be required to install a solid privacy fence of not less
than five feet (5') in height, or a solid row of shrubbery of not less than
five feet (5') in height, at all locations at which the property on which said
R-3 multi-family residence use is located abuts the property on which the R-
1 single-family use is located.
4-2-14: SWIMMING POOLS, SETBACKS:
A swimming pool shall be located on a lot such that it is in compliance with
the setbacks applicable to accessory buildings, regardless of whether or not
said swimming pool falls within the definition of an "accessory building".
(Ords. 75-10-55, 77-8-7, 77-29-48, 85-14-45, 85-18-58, 87-1-1, 92-09-37, 92-11-
45, 93-9-24, 93-24-107, 94-23-102, 95-23-100, 96-6-24, 97-3-15, 98-1-2, 98-20-
92, 99-5-11, 01-14-45, 03-05-16, 04-07-27, 19-16-66)
CHAPTER 3
BUILDING REQUIREMENTS; PERMITS; CERTIFICATES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Completing Of Buildings Under Existing Permits
4-3-2: Lots Of Record
4-3-3: Exterior Walls
4-3-4: Certificate Of Occupancy
4-3-5: Zoning Certificates
4-3-6: Plats
4-3-7: Miscellaneous Construction Requirements
4-3-8: Temporary Buildings, Trailers, Portable Storage Units
4-3-9: Administrative Occupancy Permit For Community Residences
4-3-1: COMPLETING OF BUILDINGS UNDER EXISTING PERMITS:
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans, construction or
designated use of a building for which a building permit has been heretofore
issued or complete plans for which are on file with the office of the director
of office of quality control at the effective date hereof and the construction
of which, in either case, shall have been diligently prosecuted within three
(3) months of the date of such permit, and which entire building shall have
been completed according to such plans as filed within one year from the
effective date hereof.
4-3-2: LOTS OF RECORD:
No building permit shall be issued on any substandard lot, which lot was of
record at the effective date hereof, unless said lot or a combination of
existing substandard lots or parts of substandard lots equal fifty feet (50')
in lot width and six thousand two hundred fifty (6,250) square feet of lot
area. Combining of substandard lots or parts of substandard lots to provide the
above minimum frontage and square foot area must be approved by the Zoning and
Planning Commission and the board of trustees and a plat of resubdivision is
required.
4-3-3: EXTERIOR WALLS:
   A.   In R-1 and R-2 districts, the exterior walls of all buildings and
attached accessory buildings shall be constructed of a minimum of fifty percent
(50%) face brick or fifty percent (50%) face brick veneer.
   B.   In all zoning districts other than R-1 and R-2, the exterior walls of
all buildings and accessory buildings shall be constructed of materials other
than exposed concrete, concrete/cinder block (except that solid nonflat face
concrete block shall be allowed provided it has a compression strength of at
least 2,500 psi), wood, sheet metal or horizontal lap siding, and, in addition,
said exterior walls shall not be of frame construction. An appeal from the
provisions of this paragraph shall be directed to the Zoning & Planning
Commission and shall comply with the procedures as set forth in Section
2-1-7-2 of this Code. (Ord. 23-11-35)
4-3-4: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required: No building, or addition thereto, constructed
after the effective date hereof, and no addition to a previously existing
building shall be occupied, and no land vacant on the effective date hereof
shall be used for any purpose until a certificate of occupancy has been issued
by the director of office of quality control. No change in a use other than
that of a permitted use shall be made until a certificate of occupancy shall be
issued by said director. Every certificate of occupancy shall state that the
use or occupancy complies with all the provisions of this title.
   B.   Application For Certificate, Fees: Every application for a building
permit shall be deemed to be an application for an occupancy certificate. Every
application for an occupancy certificate for a new use of land where no
building permit is required shall be made directly to the director of office of
quality control on forms provided by the village. The fee for said certificate
shall be as provided by section
6-1A-9 of this code.
   C.   Issuance Of Certificate:
      1.   Compliance Required:
         a.   No occupancy certificate for a building or addition thereto
constructed after the effective date hereof shall be issued until construction
has been completed and the premises inspected and certified by the director of
office of quality control to be in conformity with the plans and specifications
upon which the zoning certificate was based.
         b.   No occupancy certificate for a building or addition thereto
constructed after the effective date hereof shall be issued and no addition to
a previously existing building shall be occupied until the premises has been
inspected and certified by the director of office of quality control to be in
compliance with all the applicable performance standards of the zoning district
in which it is located.
      2.   Temporary Certificate: Pending the issuance of a regular
certificate, a temporary certificate may be issued, to be valid for a period
not to exceed six (6) months from its date during completion of any addition or
during partial occupancy of the premises.
      3.   Time Limit: An occupancy certificate shall be issued, or written
notice shall be given to the applicant stating the reasons why a certificate
cannot be issued, not later than fourteen (14) days after the director of
office of quality control and zoning is notified in writing that the building
or premises is ready for occupancy.
   D.   Records: A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on
file in the office of the director of office of quality control and copies
shall be furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy
interest in land or in a building affected by such certificate of occupancy.
4-3-5: ZONING CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Certificate Required: Except as hereinafter provided, no permit
pertaining to the use of land or buildings shall be issued by any officer,
department or employee of the village unless the application for such permit
has been examined by the director of office of quality control and has affixed
to it a certificate of the director of office of quality control indicating
that the proposed building or structure complies with all the provisions of
this zoning title. Any permit or certificate of occupancy issued in conflict
with the provisions of this title shall be null and void.
   B.   Application For Certificate, Issuance: In the event that an application
has affixed to it the certificate of an architect or structural engineer
licensed by the state of Illinois certifying that the building or structure and
the use thereof comply with all provisions of this title respecting performance
standards, the director of office of quality control shall, upon receipt of
such application, approve and authorize the issuance of a zoning certificate
provided all other relevant provisions of this title are complied with. Such
certificate shall be valid for all purposes. However, within fifteen (15) days
after the date of such approval, the director of office of quality control
shall examine said application and shall advise the architect or engineer in
writing if the building, structure or use thereof does not in fact comply with
the performance standards. Failure of the architect to show compliance within
thirty (30) days of such notification shall be cause for revocation of the
zoning certificate.
4-3-6: PLATS:
Every application for a building permit shall be accompanied by the following:
   A.   A plat of the piece or parcel of land, lot, lots, block or blocks, or
parts or portions thereof, drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions and
certified by a land surveyor or civil engineer licensed by the state of
Illinois as a true copy of the piece or parcel, lot, lots, block or blocks, or
parts or portions thereof, according to the registered or recorded plat of such
land. One copy of the plat shall be attached to the application for a building
permit when it is submitted to the director of office of quality control for a
zoning certificate and shall be retained by the said director as a public
record.
   B.   A plat, drawn to scale in such form as may, from time to time, be
prescribed by the director of office of quality control, showing the ground
area, height and bulk of the building or structure, the building lines in
relation to lot lines, the use to be made of the building, structure or land,
and such other information as may be required by the director of office of
quality control for the proper enforcement of this title. One copy of plat
shall be attached to the application for a building permit when it is submitted
to the director of office of quality control for a zoning certificate and shall
be retained by the said director as a public record.
   C.   A recent surveyor's plat of survey of the lot in duplicate, or
duplicate prints thereof, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the
lot to be built upon, the size, shape and location of the building to be
erected, the size, shape and location of any existing buildings, area for
parking, and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of this title. A record of applicants and plats shall be kept in
the office of the director of office of quality control. One copy of a similar
surveyor's plat, showing the actual building location, shall be filed with the
director of office of quality control prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
   D.   For all planned developments, residential, commercial and/or office,
there shall be filed with the village an as constructed, spot-in survey
certified by a registered land surveyor or civil engineer licensed by the state
of Illinois, showing the actual square footages of green space, parking areas,
aisles and driveways, loading areas and garbage facilities. The administration
shall report any deficiencies from the plans as approved by the board of
trustees.
4-3-7: MISCELLANEOUS CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
No dwelling unit shall have the finished floor of the main floor below the
outside grade.
4-3-8: TEMPORARY BUILDINGS, TRAILERS, PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS:
   A.   Except for temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction
work as provided in section
4-2-4-2 of this title, temporary buildings shall not be allowed in any zoning
district unless approved by the president and board of trustees, and if
approved, shall be removed by the owner or person in control thereof upon
expiration of the time limit established by the president and board of
trustees.
   B.   Except for temporary construction trailers used in conjunction with
construction work as provided in section
4-2-4-2 of this title, storage trailers and portable storage units (including
portable on demand storage units) shall be permitted on property in the village
only for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days during any twelve (12) month
period. Before a storage trailer or portable storage unit may be permitted, the
owner of the property on which the trailer or storage unit will be located
shall apply for a permit upon forms furnished by the department of quality
control. The trailer or storage unit shall be allowed only in the location
identified in the permit. The permit shall be valid for thirty (30) days and,
upon application, may be renewed for an additional thirty (30) days, subject to
the sixty (60) day limitation set forth above. The fee for the original permit
shall be thirty dollars ($30.00). The charge for renewal of the permit shall be
sixty dollars ($60.00), which renewal charge shall be comprised of a thirty
dollar ($30.00) permit fee and a thirty dollar ($30.00) refundable deposit. The
refundable deposit shall be returned to the permittee, provided that the
storage trailer or portable storage unit is removed from the site on or before
the expiration date of the renewal permit.
   C.   The number of storage trailers or public storage units allowed on any
residential property shall be limited to two (2).
   D.   The placement of temporary buildings, construction trailers or portable
storage units on property owned or in use by public and private schools, park
districts, libraries, hospitals and charitable organizations or causes shall be
exempt from the requirements of this section.
   E.   It shall be unlawful to allow or permit any temporary building, trailer
or portable storage unit to remain after the expiration of the time period
allowed by this section, and each day said temporary building, trailer or
portable storage unit remains after the expiration of said time period shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
4-3-9: ADMINISTRATIVE OCCUPANCY PERMIT FOR COMMUNITY RESIDENCES:
   A.   A community residence shall not be occupied by any resident unless the
sponsor shall have first obtained from the department of quality control an
administrative occupancy permit authorizing the use of the dwelling unit as a
community residence.
   B.   All administrative occupancy permits shall be issued upon written
application upon forms furnished by the department of quality control. The
application shall be under oath and shall state the following:
      1.   The date of application;
      2.   The name and address of the applicant, and if a corporation the name
and address of the registered agent, president, secretary and treasurer, and if
a partnership, the name and address of all partners, including limited
partners;
      3.   The proposed location of the community residence;
      4.   The number of residents to be housed in the community residence;
      5.   The proposed date of occupancy by residents;
      6.   The number of other persons that will reside within the community
residence, classified according to their respective duties;
      7.   The number of other persons that will work at the community
residence or provide support services at the community residence to its
residents, classified according to their respective duties; and
      8.   Any other information that the department of quality control may
reasonably require.
   C.   The application shall be accompanied by reliable evidence that the
sponsor is licensed or similarly authorized by an agency of the state of
competent jurisdiction to operate the proposed community residence in the
proposed location. A duplicate document filed with the licensing agency shall
accompany the application. The absence of such evidence shall constitute
sufficient grounds to deny the administrative occupancy permit.
   D.   The application shall also be accompanied by the certificate or
affidavit of the sponsor that the residents to be housed in the community
residence have been evaluated and screened as required under applicable
statutes and administrative regulations and that the residents are capable of
community living if provided with an appropriate level of supervision,
assistance, and support services.
   E.   No administrative occupancy permit shall be issued for a community
residence that does not comply with any ordinance of the village or applicable
regulation of the state or its agencies.
   F.   No administrative occupancy permit shall be issued for a community
residence that does not comply with the spacing provisions relative to
community residences.
   G.   The information provided on an administrative occupancy permit
application shall be updated by the applicant every six (6) months after the
issuance of the administrative occupancy permit. Said update shall be on a form
to be provided by the department of quality control.
   H.   The village manager may revoke an administrative occupancy permit on
the following grounds:
      1.   The permit was obtained by fraudulent means, material
misrepresentation or by submitting false information;
      2.   The sponsor is no longer licensed or authorized by an agency of the
state of competent jurisdiction to operate a community residence at the
location specified in the permit;
      3.   The sponsor has unlawfully refused to permit an inspection of the
community residence by an authorized official of the village; or
      4.   The community residence has been determined by an appropriate
official of the village to be unsafe for human habitation.
Prior to the revocation of an administrative occupancy permit, the village
manager or his designee shall investigate whether probable cause for revocation
may exist and, if so, shall notify the sponsor in writing of reasons for the
proposed revocation and grant the sponsor the opportunity to appear before the
village manager or his designee at a time and place specified within such
notice. Such hearing shall be held not less than ten (10) days after the notice
is received by the sponsor. Hearings shall be conducted under rules issued by
the village manager. Such rules shall be consistent with the nature of the
proceedings and shall ensure that each party may present evidence, cross
examine witnesses and be represented by legal counsel. If after the hearing the
village manager or his designee determines that the permit should be revoked, a
written order revoking the permit shall be issued.
   I.   An administrative occupancy permit is not transferable to any other
person.
   J.   For purposes of this section, "sponsor" shall mean any person licensed
or similarly authorized by an agency of the state of competent jurisdiction to
operate a community residence. (Ords. 75-10-55, 77-8-7, 81-36-77, 85-9-23, 85-
14-46, 88-22-84, 90-11-46, 90-16-68, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 94-4-13, 07-08-27, 19-
16-66)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
4-4-1: Districts Established
4-4-2: Zoning Map
4-4-3: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
4-4-4: Zoning Of Annexed Areas
4-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to regulate and limit the use of lot areas and buildings, the
erection, restoration and alteration of buildings, and the erection of
additions thereto; to classify, regulate, and restrict the location of trades,
industries and the location of buildings for specified uses; to regulate and
limit the height and bulk of buildings so as to secure adequate light, pure air
and safety from fires and other dangers; to conserve the taxable value of lands
and buildings throughout the Village; to lessen or avoid congestion in public
streets; and to otherwise promote the public health, safety, comfort, morals
and welfare, the Village is hereby divided into districts as follows:
R-1    Residence District
R-2    Residence District
R-3    Residence District
R-4    Residence District
C-1    General Business District
C-2    General Service District
C-3    Regional Shopping District
O      Office District
M-1    Restricted Manufacturing District
PL     Public Lands District
PK     Parking District
PD R-1 Planned Residence District
PD R-2 Planned Residence District
PD R-3 Planned Residence District
 
No building shall be erected or altered nor shall any building or premises be
used for any purpose other than is permitted in the district in which said
building or premises is located, except as provided in chapter 12 of this title
relating to nonconforming uses, and as provided in chapter 14 of this title,
relating to special uses.
4-4-2: ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of said districts are as indicated on the Zoning Map of the
Village, a copy of which is on file in the Office of the Village Clerk in the
Village Hall, and is identified on its face as part of this title, and said
Zoning Map, with all notations, references and other matters thereon, is as
much a part of this title as if such notations, references and other matters
were specifically set forth herein.
4-4-3: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
In the event uncertainties exist with respect to the intended boundaries of the
various districts as shown on the Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   The district boundaries are the center lines of streets unless
otherwise indicated, and where the designation of a boundary line on the Zoning
Map coincides with the location of a street, the center line of such street
shall be construed to be the boundary of such districts.
   B.   Where the district boundaries do not coincide with the location of
streets but do coincide with lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be
the boundary of such districts.
   C.   Where the district boundaries do not coincide with the location of
street or lot lines, the district boundaries shall be determined by the use of
the scale indicated on the Zoning Map.
4-4-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS:
Any area annexed to the Village shall be automatically zoned R-1; except, that
the Board of Trustees, considering recommendations by the Zoning and Planning
Commission may execute a preannexation agreement. The Zoning and Planning
Commission shall submit recommendations for the zoning of annexed areas within
ninety (90) days after effective date of annexation. (Ords. 75-10-55, 81-36-77,
87-17-70, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 17-14-48, 19-16-66)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
4-5A-1: General Regulations
4-5A-2: Use Regulations
4-5A-3: Site And Structure Requirements
4-5A-4: Performance Standards
4-5A-5: Off Street Parking Regulations
4-5A-6: Second Story Additions
4-5A-7: Residential Flatwork And Impervious Surfaces
4-5A-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this article, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this article, are the district regulations in the R-
1 single-family residence district.
4-5A-2: USE REGULATIONS:
A building or premises shall be used for the following purposes:
   Accessory buildings, subject to section
4-2-4-1 of this title.
   Home occupations, subject to section
4-1-6 of this title.
   No truck in excess of one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity may be parked,
except momentarily, on private property in this district.
   Parking in conjunction with the use established in the district and subject
to the provisions of chapter 13 of this title.
   Parks, playgrounds and community buildings owned or operated by public
agencies and used solely for recreational purposes.
   Public and private elementary, junior high and high schools teaching a
general education curriculum in accordance with the educational requirements
for elementary, junior high and high schools as established by the state of
Illinois educational authorities, having no rooms regularly used for housing or
sleeping purposes.
   Public libraries.
   Satellite dish antennas subject to section
4-2-12 of this title (permit required, $25.00).
   Signs limited to advertising premises for sale or for rent.
   Single-family dwellings.
   Small community residences, provided:
   A.   They are not located within one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') of
another community residence;
   B.   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied for
and received (see section
4-3-5 of this title); and
   C.   Prior to occupancy, an administrative occupancy permit is applied for
and received (see section
4-3-9 of this title). (Ord. 22-16-54)
4-5A-3: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories nor shall it exceed thirty feet (30') in height, except as provided in
section
4-2-8 of this title.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less
than twenty five feet (25'), except that:
         a.   Where lots comprising forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage
between two (2) streets are developed with buildings, the minimum front yard
shall be the average of such existing front yards, but in no case greater than
thirty feet (30'); except, that in a planned subdivision of six (6) or more
lots, a staggered setback line exceeding thirty feet (30') may be established,
providing that any staggered setback line returns to the established setback
line at any contiguous subdivision which is not under the same ownership as
that where a staggered building has been used.
         b.   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall
be provided on both streets.
         c.   On a corner lot, the side yard facing the street (corner side
yard) shall be the greater of fifteen feet (15') or the average setback
distance of all developed lots abutting said street and on the same block, and
on the same side of the block, as the lot in question.
         d.   Projections, not including steps, into front yards shall be as
follows: Roof overhangs and vertical walls for porches shall be limited to a
four foot (4') total allowance into front yards.
         e.   Decks which meet village construction standards and which are not
enclosed or habitable, but which are open to the environment, may encroach into
the front yard setback provided such encroachments shall not exceed the
following amounts:
            (1)   An eight foot (8') encroachment if the floor of the deck is
constructed at grade level;
            (2)   A six foot (6') encroachment if the floor of the deck is
constructed on the first floor level; or
            (3)   A four foot (4') encroachment if the floor of the deck is
constructed on the second floor level.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Except as provided in subsections B1c and B2b of this section,
and subject to subsection B2c of this section, there shall be a side yard on
each side of the lot of not less than ten percent (10%) of the width of the lot
or five feet (5'), whichever is greater.
         b.   Except as provided in subsection B1c of this section, and subject
to subsection B2c of this section, when a side yard is used for a driveway,
said side yard shall be not less than ten percent (10%) of the width of the lot
or nine feet (9'), whichever is greater.
         c.   Except as absolutely necessary to comply with subsections B1c
and/or B2b of this section, where the parcel in question cannot be subdivided
without the need for variation, the two (2) side yards, or the side yard and
the corner side yard relative to a corner lot, shall be equal in width.
         d.   Chimneys and wing walls may encroach by an amount not to exceed
two feet (2') upon side yard setbacks.
      3.   Rear Yard: Except as provided in section
4-2-8 of this title, there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
thirty feet (30') or twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot, whichever
amount is smaller.
   C.   Lot Area: Every lot or tract of land upon which a residential building
is erected shall be at least fifty five feet (55') wide at the building setback
line for interior lots, and sixty feet (60') wide for corner lots, and shall be
at least six thousand eight hundred seventy five (6,875) square feet in area
for interior lots, and seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet in area
for corner lots, except smaller lots as defined in section
4-1-6 of this title and as provided in section
4-3-2 of this title.
   D.   Lot Coverage: No more than thirty five percent (35%) of the area of the
lot may be covered by a dwelling and its accessory buildings; except a corner
lot may be covered by a dwelling and its accessory buildings up to forty
percent (40%) of the area of the lot.
   E.   Elevations And Facades: No two (2) detached single-family dwellings of
substantially similar or identical front elevation or facade shall be
constructed or located on adjacent lots, nor shall there be constructed or
located more than twenty five percent (25%) of single-family dwellings of the
same or substantially similar elevations or facades in any block. A change of
front elevations or facades shall be deemed to exist when there is a
substantial difference in roofline, type and location of windows, and kind and
arrangement of materials.
   F.   Establishment Of Foundation Grades: The top of the foundation wall
shall be set at a height such that the slope between the top of said foundation
wall and the highest elevation of the curb on the street abutting the property
on which the foundation wall exists does not exceed six percent (6%), based on
the following formula:
 
(height of top of foundation wall) - (elevation at highest point on the = Slope
                                     curb)
distance between back of curb and foundation wall                        
 
Where there are existing buildings in the block, foundation grades shall be set
to equalize the height of all buildings in the block where practicable, unless
the existing buildings in the block are set too low in relation to the existing
or proposed curb elevations where it then becomes necessary to place a new
building foundation grade higher than the existing buildings in the block.
Provision shall then be made to protect the lower elevation buildings from the
water runoff of the new buildings. Parts of the foundation which are placed at
a higher elevation for architectural effect shall not extend for more than
forty percent (40%) of the perimeter of the building. However, in all cases,
foundation grades must conform to title 6, chapter 14, "Flood Control And
Protection", of this code.
4-5A-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Buildings, premises and uses permitted in this district are subject to the
applicable performance standards in section
4-8-8 of this title.
4-5A-5: OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Area: The required off street parking spaces shall be at least nine
feet (9') in width and at least twenty feet (20') in length, and shall have a
vertical clearance of at least seven feet (7').
   B.   Location: The required parking spaces shall be located inside of and
within all building lines.
   C.   Construction: Parking spaces and access drives shall be constructed
with a minimum base of four inches (4") of granular material surfaced with four
inches (4") of concrete, or with base of six inches (6") of compacted stone and
screenings surfaced with two inches (2") of asphalt.
4-5A-6: SECOND STORY ADDITIONS:
   A.   No second story addition to any existing single-family residence within
the village shall be constructed with any portion of said addition being
located beyond the boundaries of the exterior walls of the underlying story of
said residence, with the exception of the following structural designs which
shall be allowed:
      1.   A cantilever overhang of no more than two feet (2');
      2.   A balcony; or
      3.   An overhang supported by posts, with a porch area located
underneath.
   B.   All building permit applications for second story additions shall be
accompanied by a detailed drawing showing the existing single-family residence,
as well as the proposed addition, so that the department of quality control can
verify:
      1.   That said addition will comply with the provisions of this section;
and
      2.   That the existing single-family residence, and addition when
completed, will fully comply with all provisions of this article and all
applicable codes of the village.
4-5A-7: RESIDENTIAL FLATWORK AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACES:
   A.   Concrete Flatwork: No person, firm, or corporation shall construct or
alter any concrete flatwork, asphalt paving or brick pavers, without first
obtaining a permit from the department of community development and growth
management. "Concrete flatwork" is defined as any concrete, asphalt or brick
paved surface such as a sidewalk, driveway or patio. "Concrete formwork" is
defined as the framing material, commonly made of wood or aluminum, placed
prior to the pouring of concrete flatwork.
   B.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The total lot area occupied by any principal
building(s) and accessory building(s), together with all impervious surfaces,
including concrete flatwork, shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total
lot area. In any case, lot coverage for dwellings and accessory buildings shall
not exceed limits set in section
4-5A-3, "Site And Structure Requirements", of this article.
   C.   Application For Concrete Flatwork: An application for a permit to
construct concrete flatwork shall be submitted to the department of community
development and growth management on forms provided by the department. The
application shall designate the location of the proposed concrete flatwork, the
name and address of the applicant, the name and address of the owner of the
property to be served by the concrete flatwork, and include a plat of survey
indicating the proposed concrete flatwork location and dimensions. An updated
survey of the property may be required at the discretion of the building
official when a sketch of the new flatwork is not adequate to calculate the
percentage of lot coverage. The department of community development and growth
management shall issue a permit to construct concrete flatwork provided that
the permit application is complete, is in accordance with these regulations and
the applicable permit fee and inspection fee have been paid.
   D.   Inspections Of Concrete Flatwork: The building official, or other
representative designated by the director, shall measure and inspect the
permitted and installed concrete flatwork to ensure compliance with this
section. The permittee shall give notice to the department twenty four (24)
hours prior to concrete formwork being placed, to allow for inspection of the
framework prior to the pouring of any concrete.
   E.   Drainage: All concrete flatwork shall be constructed in a manner that
is consistent with the requirements of sections
5-3-3-1, "Grading For Drainage", and
5-4-5, "Stormwater Drainage", of this code.
   F.   Fee Schedule: The following fees shall be paid at the time of
application:
 
Permit fee     $30.00
Inspection fee 40.00
 
(Ords. 75-10-55, 81-17-29, 81-36-77, 85-18-58, 87-1-1, 87-17-70, 90-13-54, 90-
16-68, 93-24-107, 94-01-01, 95-14-46, 01-14-45, 01-15-56, 11-18-42, 19-13-40)
ARTICLE B. R-2 LIMITED MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
4-5B-1: General Regulations
4-5B-2: Use Regulations
4-5B-3: Site And Structure Requirements
4-5B-4: Performance Standards
4-5B-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this article, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this article, are the R-2 limited multi-family residence
district regulations.
4-5B-2: USE REGULATIONS:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   Any use permitted in the R-1 single-family district, except single-family
dwellings.
   Accessory buildings, subject to section
4-2-4-1 of this title.
   No truck in excess of one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity may be parked,
except momentarily, on private property in this district.
   Parking as accessory use allowed in the R-2 district and subject to chapter
13 of this title.
   Satellite dish antennas subject to section
4-2-12 of this title (permit required, $25.00).
   Signs limited to advertising premises for sale or for rent.
   Small community residences, provided:
      1.   They are not located within one thousand two hundred feet (1,200')
of another community residence;
      2.   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received (see section
4-3-5 of this title); and
      3.   Prior to occupancy, an administrative occupancy permit is applied
for and received (see section
4-3-9 of this title).
   Two-family dwellings.
4-5B-3: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Regulations:
      1.   Building Height: No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories nor shall it exceed thirty feet (30') in height, except as provided in
section
4-2-8 of this title.
      2.   Windows In Basements: In no case shall there be basement windows in
any elevation of the building facing a public street, nor shall the total
square footage area of all windows exceed five percent (5%) of the floor area
of the basement.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less
than twenty five feet (25'), except that:
         a.   Where lots comprising forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage
between two (2) streets are developed with buildings, the minimum front yard
shall be the average of such existing front yards, but in no case greater than
thirty feet (30').
         b.   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall
be provided on both streets.
         c.   On a corner lot, there shall be a front yard on each street side
of such lot; except, that the front yard on the side street may be reduced in
depth to the extent necessary to permit a buildable width on said lot of forty
feet (40'), provided the depth of said yard shall not be reduced to less than
fifteen feet (15').
         d.   A staggered building line may be established in a subdivision of
six (6) or more lots, providing any staggered setback returns to the
established setback in any contiguous subdivision which is not under the same
ownership as that where a staggered building setback line has been used.
         e.   Projections into front yard not including steps shall be as
follows: roof overhangs and vertical walls for porches shall be limited to a
four foot (4') total allowance into front yards.
         f.   Decks which meet village construction standards and which are not
enclosed or habitable, but which are open to the environment, may encroach into
the front yard setback provided such encroachments shall not exceed the
following amounts:
            (1)   An eight foot (8') encroachment if the floor of the deck is
constructed at grade level;
            (2)   A six foot (6') encroachment if the floor of the deck is
constructed on the first floor level; or
            (3)   A four foot (4') encroachment if the floor of the deck is
constructed on the second floor level.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   There shall be a side yard on each side of the lot not less than
five feet (5') and a combined total of side yards of not less than twenty
percent (20%) of the average width of the lot.
         b.   There shall be a side yard of not less than nine feet (9') in
width, when same is used as a side drive.
         c.   Chimneys and wing walls may encroach by an amount not to exceed
two feet (2') upon side yard setbacks.
      3.   Rear Yard: Except as provided in section
4-2-8 of this title, there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
thirty feet (30') or twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot, whichever
amount is smaller. No accessory building shall be permitted within five feet
(5') of the rear lot line or within a utility easement.
   C.   Lot Area: Except as provided in section
4-2-8 of this title and title 2, chapter 2 of this code, every dwelling
hereafter erected, enlarged, relocated or reconstructed shall be located upon
lots containing the following areas:
      1.   A lot on which there is erected a two-family dwelling shall have an
area of not less than three thousand (3,000) square feet per family unit and
not less than fifty (50) lineal feet of width at the building line.
      2.   A corner lot in this district shall be at least sixty feet (60')
wide.
   D.   Lot Coverage: Not more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot
may be covered by buildings.
   E.   Dwelling Standards: Each and every apartment unit built in the R-
2 residence district must contain the following minimum square footages of
floor area measured from the inside surface of the perimeter walls containing
the individual unit. Measurements are exclusive of common halls, stairways or
other common areas within the total building.
 
Efficiency unit or 1 bedroom apartment 550 sq. ft.
2 bedroom apartment                    800 sq. ft.
3 bedroom apartment                    1,000 sq. ft.
4 bedroom or larger apartment          1,200 sq. ft.
 
   F.   Courts: Courts are permitted, provided the depth of the court is not
greater than the width of the court.
   G.   Conversions: No conversion of single-family dwellings into apartments
shall be permitted.
   H.   Elevations And Facades: No two (2) two- family dwellings of identical
or similar front elevations or facades shall be constructed or located on
adjacent lots, nor shall there be constructed or located more than twenty five
percent (25%) of two-family dwellings of the same or similar elevation or
facade in any one block. A change of front elevation or facade shall be deemed
to exist when there is a substantial difference in roofline, type and location
of windows, and type, kind, color and arrangement of materials. Two (2) or more
two-family dwellings of identical or similar front elevations or facades may be
located adjacent to one another for design and aesthetic purposes for carrying
out a theme of architecture, subject to approval of the Zoning and Planning
Commission and the president and board of trustees for the overall plan of the
two-family dwellings to be constructed.
   I.   Establishment Of Foundation Grades: The top of the foundation wall
shall be set at a height such that the slope between the top of said foundation
wall and the highest elevation of the curb on the street abutting the property
on which the foundation wall exists does not exceed six percent (6%), based on
the following formula:
 
Height of top of foundation wall - Elevation at highest point on the
                                   curb                              = Slope
Distance between back of curb and foundation wall
 
Where there are existing buildings in the block, foundation grades shall be set
to equalize the height of all buildings in the block where practicable, unless
the existing buildings in the block are set too low in relation to the existing
or proposed curb elevation where it then becomes necessary to place a new
building foundation grade higher than the existing buildings in the block.
Provision shall then be made to protect the lower elevation buildings from the
water runoff of the new buildings. Parts of the foundation which are placed at
a higher elevation for architectural effect shall not extend for more than
forty percent (40%) of the perimeter of the building. However, in all cases,
foundation grades must conform to title 6, chapter 14 of this code, flood
control and protection.
4-5B-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Buildings, premises and uses permitted in this district are subject to the
applicable performance standards in chapter 8 of this title. (Ords. 75-10-55,
77-29-48, 81-36-77, 85-18-58, 87-1-1, 90-16-68, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 94-01-01,
95-14-46, 01-14-45, 19-16-66)
ARTICLE C. R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
4-5C-1: General Provisions
4-5C-2: Use Regulations
4-5C-3: Site And Structure Requirements
4-5C-4: Performance Standards
4-5C-5: Ridgeland Avenue Area Sub-District
4-5C-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The regulations set forth in this Article, or set forth elsewhere in this Title
when referred to in this Article, are the district regulations in the R-
3 Multi-Family Residence District.
4-5C-2: USE REGULATIONS:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Accessory buildings, subject to Section
4-2-4-1 of this Title.
Any use permitted in the R-1 Residence District or the R-2 Limited Multi-Family
District regulations, except single-family dwellings.
Boarding and lodging houses.
Large Community Residences, provided:
      1.   They are not located within one thousand two hundred feet (1,200')
of another Community Residence;
      2.   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received (see Section
4-3-5 of this Title); and
      3.   Prior to occupancy, an administrative occupancy permit is applied
for and received (see Section
4-3-9 of this Title).
Multiple-family dwellings.
No truck in excess of one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity may be parked,
except momentarily, on private property in this District.
Parking in conjunction with the use established in the District and subject to
Chapter 13 of this Title.
Row houses, townhouses or garden-type homes.
Satellite dish antennas subject to Section
4-2-12 of this Title. (Permit required, $25.00.)
Signs limited to advertising premises for sale or for rent.
Small Community Residences, provided:
      1.   They are not located within one thousand two hundred feet (1,200')
of another Community Residence;
      2.   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received (see Section
4-3-5 of this Title); and
      3.   Prior to occupancy, an administrative occupancy permit is applied
for and received (see Section
4-3-9 of this Title).
Two-family dwellings.
4-5C-3: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building height shall exceed three (3) stories nor
shall it exceed forty feet (40') in height, except as provided in Section
4-2-8 of this Title.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard:
         a.   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than
twenty feet (20').
         b.   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall
be provided on both streets.
         c.   On a corner lot, there shall be a front yard on each street side
of such lot; except, that the front yard on the side street may be reduced in
depth to the extent necessary to permit a buildable width on said lot of forty
feet (40'), provided the depth of said yard shall not be reduced to less than
fifteen feet (15').
         d.   A staggered building line may be established in a subdivision of
six (6) or more lots, providing any staggered setback returns to the
established setback in any contiguous subdivision which is not under the same
ownership as that where a staggered building setback line has been used.
         e.   Decks which meet Village construction standards and which are not
enclosed or habitable, but which are open to the environment, may encroach into
the front yard setback, provided such encroachments shall not exceed the
following amounts:
            (1)   An eight foot (8') encroachment if the floor of the deck is
constructed at grade level;
            (2)   A six foot (6') encroachment if the floor of the deck is
constructed on the first floor level; or
            (3)   A four foot (4') encroachment if the floor of the deck is
constructed on the second or third floor level.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   There shall be a side yard on each side of the lot of not less
than five feet (5') and a combined total of side yards of not less than twenty
feet (20').
         b.   There shall be a side yard of not less than nine feet (9') in
width when same is used as a side drive.
         c.   Chimneys and wing walls may encroach by an amount not to exceed
two feet (2') upon side yard setbacks.
      3.   Rear Yard: Except as provided in Section
4-2-8 of this Title, there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty five feet (25') or twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot,
whichever is smaller.
   C.   Lot Area: Except as provided in Section
4-2-8 and Title 2, Chapter 2 of this Code, every dwelling hereafter erected,
enlarged, relocated or reconstructed shall be located upon lots containing the
following areas:
      1.   A lot on which there is erected a two-family dwelling shall have an
area of not less than three thousand (3,000) square feet per family unit and
not less than fifty (50) lineal feet of width at the building line.
      2.   A lot on which there is erected a multi-family dwelling in excess of
two (2) units shall contain a land area of not less than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet of land per dwelling unit, but in no case shall the
combined floor area of all dwelling units exceed the total lot area of the lot
or parcel of ground on which the dwelling is to be erected. There shall not be
less than fifty (50) lineal feet of width at the building line.
      3.   A corner lot in this District shall be at least sixty feet (60')
wide.
   D.   Lot Coverage: Not more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot
may be covered by buildings.
   E.   Dwelling Standards: Each and every apartment unit built in the R-
3 Residence District must contain the following minimum square footages of
floor area measured from the inside surface of the perimeter walls containing
the individual unit. Measurements are exclusive of common halls, stairways or
other common areas within the total building.
 
Efficiency unit or 1-bedroom apartment 650 sq. ft.
2-bedroom apartment                    800 sq. ft.
3-bedroom apartment                    1,000 sq. ft.
4-bedroom or larger apartment          1,200 sq. ft.
 
   F.   Courts: Courts are permitted; provided, the depth of the court is not
greater than the width of the court.
   G.   Conversions: No conversion of a single-family dwelling into apartments
shall be permitted.
   H.   Elevations And Facades: No two (2) multi- family dwellings of identical
or similar front elevations or facades shall be constructed or located on
adjacent lots, nor shall there be constructed or located more than twenty five
percent (25%) of multi-family dwellings of the same or similar elevation or
facade in any one block. A change of front elevation or facade shall be deemed
to exist when there is a substantial difference in roofline, type and location
of windows, and type, kind, color and arrangement of materials. Two (2) or more
multi-family dwellings of identical or similar front elevations or facades may
be located adjacent to one another for design and aesthetic purposes for
carrying out a theme of architecture, subject to approval of the Zoning and
Planning Commission and the President and Board of Trustees for the overall
plan of the multi-family dwellings to be constructed.
   I.   Establishment Of Foundation Grades: The top of the foundation wall
shall be set at a height such that the slope between the top of said foundation
wall and the highest elevation of the curb on the street abutting the property
on which the foundation wall exists does not exceed six percent (6%), based on
the following formula:
 
Height of top of foundation wall - Elevation at highest point on the
                                   curb                              = Slope
Distance between back of curb and foundation wall
 
Where there are existing buildings in the block, foundation grades shall be set
to equalize the height of all buildings in the block where practicable, unless
the existing buildings in the block are set too low in relation to the existing
or proposed curb elevation where it then becomes necessary to place a new
building foundation grade higher than the existing buildings in the block.
Provision shall then be made to protect the lower elevation buildings from the
water runoff of the new buildings in the block. Parts of the foundation which
are placed at a higher elevation for architectural effect shall not extend for
more than forty percent (40%) of the perimeter of the building. However, in all
cases, foundation grades must conform to Title 6, Chapter 14 of this Code,
Flood Control and Protection.
4-5C-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Buildings, premises and uses permitted in this District are subject to the
applicable performance standards in Section
4-8-8 of this Title.
4-5C-5: RIDGELAND AVENUE AREA SUB-DISTRICT:
   A.   Lot Size: Within the R-3 Multi-Family Residence District there is
hereby created a Ridgeland Avenue Area Sub-District which shall be subject to
all the requirements of this Article relative to R-3 Multi-Family Residence
Districts, except that within the Ridgeland Avenue Area Sub-District, the lot
size restriction set forth in subsection
4-5C-3C2 of this Article shall be one thousand (1,000) square feet per dwelling
unit.
   B.   Boundaries: The boundaries of the Ridgeland Avenue Area Sub- District
shall be as follows:
The R-3 Multi-Family Residence District bordered by the first alley South of
95th Street on the North, by 99th Street on the South, by the first alley East
of Ridgeland Avenue on the East and Ridgeland Avenue on the West.
   C.   Findings: It is specifically found by the President and Board of
Trustees that a greater density is required in the Ridgeland Avenue Area Sub-
District for the following reasons:
      1.   Because of its proximity to major business districts, a higher
density of population is necessary in the Ridgeland Avenue Area Sub-District to
help ensure sufficient walk-in traffic into businesses.
      2.   Unlike the other R-3 Multi-Family Residence Districts in the
Village, the Ridgeland Avenue Area Sub-District is adjacent to a major regional
enclosed retail shopping center.
      3.   Property owners with the few remaining single-family residential use
properties in the Ridgeland Avenue Area Sub- District have had their single-
family residential use property values lowered, due to the construction of
multi-family dwellings over the years, to the point where their properties'
sole marketability will lie in being able to be sold to a developer for the
construction of a multi-family building, and such marketability would be
significantly impaired if the lot-size amendment were applied to the Ridgeland
Avenue Area Sub-District.
      4.   Unlike other R-3 Multi-Family Residential Districts within the
Village which currently contain single-family residential uses, the Ridgeland
Avenue Area Sub-District has been developed, exclusively, except for the few
remaining single-family residences referenced in subsection C3 of this Section,
with multi-family residential uses based on one thousand (1,000) square feet of
lot size per unit. (Ords. 75-10-55, 81-36-77, 85-18-58, 87-1-1, 90-16-68, 92-
11-45, 93-9-24, 94-01-01, 95-14-46, 97-10-44, 97-16-66, 19-16-66)
ARTICLE D. R-4 TOWNHOME RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
4-5D-1: General Regulations
4-5D-2: Use Regulations
4-5D-3: Townhome Defined
4-5D-4: Site And Structure Requirements
4-5D-5: Performance Standards
4-5D-6: Off Street Parking Regulations
4-5D-7: Residential Flatwork And Impervious Surfaces
4-5D-8: Approvals
4-5D-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this article, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this article, are the district regulations in the R-
4 Townhome Residence District.
4-5D-2: USE REGULATIONS:
A building or premises shall be used for the following purposes:
Accessory buildings, subject to section
4-2-4-1 of this title.
Home occupations, subject to section
4-1-6 of this title.
No truck in excess of one and one-half (11/2) tons capacity may be parked,
except momentarily, on private property in this district.
Parking in conjunction with the use established in the district and subject to
the provisions of chapter 13 of this title.
Satellite dish antennas subject to section
4-2-12 of this title.
Signs limited to advertising premises for sale or for rent.
4-5D-3: TOWNHOME DEFINED:
A single family dwelling unit with a row of a minimum of two (2) units up to a
maximum of three (3) units constructed horizontally. Each unit extends from the
foundation to the roof with units not stacked. Each unit must have its own
front and rear entrance. Each townhome shall be privately owned by only one (1)
owner. No more than three (3) dwelling units are permitted in one (1) townhome
parcel.
4-5D-4: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories nor shall it exceed thirty feet (30') in height, except as provided in
section
4-2-8 of this title.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less
than twenty five feet (25'); except that:
         a.   Where lots comprising forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage
between two (2) streets are developed with buildings, the minimum front yard
shall be the average of such existing front yards, but in no case greater than
thirty feet (30'); except, that in a planned subdivision of six (6) or more
lots, a staggered setback line exceeding thirty feet (30') may be established,
providing that any staggered setback line returns to the established setback
line at any contiguous subdivision which is not under the same ownership as
that where a staggered building has been used.
         b.   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall
be provided on both streets.
         c.   On a corner lot, the side yard facing the street (corner side
yard) shall be the greater of fifteen feet (15') or the average setback
distance of all developed lots abutting said street and on the same block, and
on the same side of the block, as the lot in question.
         d.   Projections, not including steps, into front yards shall be as
follows: Roof overhangs and vertical walls for porches shall be limited to a
four foot (4') total allowance into front yards.
         e.   Decks which meet Village construction standards and which are not
enclosed or habitable, but which are open to the environment, may encroach into
the front yard setback provided such encroachments shall not exceed the
following amounts:
            (1)   An eight foot (8') encroachment if the floor of the deck is
constructed at grade level;
            (2)   A six foot (6') encroachment if the floor of the deck is
constructed on the first floor level; or
            (3)   A four foot (4') encroachment if the floor of the deck is
constructed on the second floor level.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Not less than ten percent (10%) of the width of the lot or five
feet (5'), whichever is greater.
         b.   Where there is a combined side yard, said side yard shall not be
less than fifteen feet (15').
         c.   When a side yard is adjacent to a street, said side yard shall
not be less than fifteen feet (15').
         d.   When a side yard is used for a driveway, said side yard shall be
not less than thirty percent (30%) of the width of the lot or ten feet (10'),
whichever is greater.
         e.   Chimneys and wing walls may encroach by an amount not to exceed
two feet (2') upon side yard setbacks.
      3.   Rear Yard: Except as provided in section
4-2-8 of this title, there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty five feet (25') or twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot,
whichever is less.
   C.   Lot Area: Every lot or tract of land upon which a townhome is erected
shall be at least fifty five feet (55') wide at the building setback line for
interior lots and sixty feet (60') wide for corner lots and shall be at least
six thousand eight hundred seventy five (6,875) square feet in area for
interior lots, and seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet in area for
corner lots, except smaller lots as defined in section
4-1-6 of this title and as provided in section
4-3-2 of this title. Each unit must have a minimum of three thousand (3,000)
square feet per unit.
   D.   Wall Separations: Townhomes shall be separated by a two (2) hour fire
rated non-combustible wall assembly when located on a lot line between units
and shall be continuous from the foundation to the underside to the fire
retardant roof sheathing. Exterior walls when located on or near lot lines and
open to a separate non-buildable lot of at least thirty feet (30') in width
used as a common yard or open to a public way (street), may have zero (0) hour
fire rating.
   E.   Building Materials: Subsection
4-3-3A of this title is hereby incorporated by reference and shall apply
equally to all townhomes sought to be constructed.
   F.   Lot Coverage: No more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot
may be covered by a dwelling and its accessory buildings; except a corner lot
may be covered by a dwelling and its accessory buildings up to fifty percent
(50%) of the area of the lot.
   G.   Establishment Of Foundation Grades: The top of the foundation wall
shall be set at a height such that the slope between the top of said foundation
wall and the highest elevation of the curb on the street abutting the property
on which the foundation wall exists does not exceed six percent (6%), based on
the following formula:
 
Height of top of foundation wall - Elevation at highest point on the
                                   curb                              = Slope
Distance between back of curb and foundation wall
 
Where there are existing buildings in the block, foundation grades shall be set
to equalize the height of all buildings in the block, where practicable, unless
the existing buildings in the block are set too low in relation to the existing
or proposed curb elevations where it then becomes necessary to place a new
building foundation grade higher than the existing buildings in the block.
Provisions shall then be made to protect the lower elevation buildings from the
water runoff of the new buildings. However, in all cases, foundation grades
must conform to title 6, chapter 14, "Flood Control And Protection", of this
Code.
4-5D-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Buildings, premises and uses permitted in this district are subject to the
applicable performance standards in section
4-8-8 of this title.
4-5D-6: OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Parking Required: A minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces shall
be provided for the residents of each townhome unit. One (1) space as required
may be within the driveway of the front yard setback area.
   B.   Area: The required off street parking spaces shall be at least nine
feet (9') in width and at least twenty feet (20') in length, and shall have a
vertical clearance of at least seven feet (7').
   C.   Location: The required parking spaces shall be located inside of and
within all building lines.
   D.   Construction: All permanent off-street parking spaces and access areas
thereto shall be paved. Parking spaces and access drives shall be constructed
with a minimum base of four inches (4") of granular material surfaced with four
inches (4") of concrete, or with base of six inches (6") of compacted stone and
screenings surfaced with two inches (2") of asphalt. All off- street parking
facilities shall be completed before occupancy of the building.
4-5D-7: RESIDENTIAL FLATWORK AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACES:
   A.   Concrete Flatwork: No person, firm or corporation shall construct or
alter any concrete flatwork, asphalt paving or brick pavers, without first
obtaining a permit from the Department of Community Development and Growth
Management. "Concrete flatwork" is defined as any concrete, asphalt or brick
paved surface such as a sidewalk, driveway or patio. "Concrete formwork" is
defined as the framing material, commonly made of wood or aluminum, placed
prior to the pouring of concrete flatwork.
   B.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The total lot area occupied by any principal
building(s) and accessory building(s), together with all impervious surfaces,
including concrete flatwork, shall not exceed sixty percent (60%) of the total
lot area. In any case, lot coverage for dwellings and accessory buildings shall
not exceed limits set in section
4-5D-4, "Site And Structure Requirements", of this article.
   C.   Application For Concrete Flatwork: An application for a permit to
construct concrete flatwork shall be submitted to the Department of Community
Development and Growth Management on forms provided by the department. The
application shall designate the location of the proposed concrete flatwork, the
name and address of the applicant, the name and address of the owner of the
property to be served by the concrete flatwork, and include a plat of survey
indicating the proposed concrete flatwork location and dimensions. An updated
survey of the property may be required at the discretion of the building
official when a sketch of the new framework is not adequate to calculate the
percentage of lot coverage. The Department of Community Development and Growth
Management shall issue a permit to construct concrete flatwork provided that
the permit application is complete, is in accordance with these regulations and
the applicable permit fee and inspection fee have been paid.
   D.   Inspections Of Concrete Flatwork: The building official, or other
representative designated by the Director, shall measure and inspect the
permitted and installed concrete flatwork to ensure compliance with this
section. The permittee shall give notice to the department twenty four (24)
hours prior to concrete formwork being placed, to allow for inspection of the
framework prior to the pouring of any concrete.
   E.   Drainage: All concrete flatwork shall be constructed in a manner that
is consistent with the requirements of sections
5-3-3-1, "Grading For Drainage", and
5-4-5, "Stormwater Drainage", of this Code.
   F.   Fee Schedule: The following fees shall be paid at the time of
application:
 
Permit fee     $30.00
Inspection fee 40.00
 
4-5D-8: APPROVALS:
An application for permit to develop or improve a townhome shall be submitted
to the Zoning and Planning Commission for review and recommendation before it
is submitted and approved by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Oak Lawn.
(Ords. 17-14-48, 21-19-86)
CHAPTER 6
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Village Policy On Rezoning
4-6-2: Payday Loan Stores
4-6-1: VILLAGE POLICY ON REZONING:
Residential property immediately contiguous to existing commercial zoning or
commercial zoning created by ordinance may be rezoned in the appropriate zoning
classification when extension of the commercial use is contemplated, provided
that the criteria set forth in subsection
2-1-8-2D of this code shall be used in analyzing each request for the
aforementioned rezoning, and further provided:
   A.   That the commercial use requesting zoning in depth needs the additional
zoning in order to meet the parking, loading and yard requirements of this
title.
   B.   That the residential property proposed for rezoning extends no deeper
than two (2) residential lots, not to exceed a combined total of one hundred
feet (100') from the lot line of the commercial use or from an alley contiguous
to the commercial use.
   C.   That the commercial use creates a landscaped area, fenced or hedged, or
not less than five feet (5') immediately adjacent to all residential property
or to an alley which serves residential property. Such landscaped buffer zone
shall not be used for parking, storage of containers, or any use accessory to
the commercial use but shall be maintained as a green strip buffer for the
protection of the residential property.
   D.   The land so affected may be designated PK parking to distinguish its
use, in which case the provisions of chapter 10 of this title, shall be
followed. Any land permitted to be used for parking under this section shall
meet provisions of chapter 10 of this title.
4-6-2: PAYDAY LOAN STORES:
In regard to the zoning of payday loan stores, the president and board of
trustees find as follows:
   A.   The village has a substantial governmental interest in protecting the
village residents and persons who work in and visit the village from the
negative impacts of payday loan stores.
   B.   In various portions of the village, the rapid growth of payday loan
stores is especially harmful to individuals struggling to join the work force
and better their economic position.
   C.   Payday loan stores attract criminal activity in the neighborhoods where
they are located because they are well advertised quick sources of cash.
   D.   Payday loan stores are best located in high commercial traffic areas,
such as the C-3 regional shopping district, where an individual is less likely
to be the subject of a crime because of the large number of people (potential
witnesses) present.
   E.   While it is vital that state legislation be enacted to outlaw payday
loan store lending abuses, it is also essential for the village to regulate the
location of payday loan stores in order to protect public health, safety, and
welfare that is placed at risk by the continuing proliferation of payday loan
stores.
Based on the foregoing, payday loan stores are only appropriate as permitted
uses in the C-3 regional shopping district. (Ords. 75-10-55, 86-9-27, 00-5-12)
ARTICLE A. C-1 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
4-6A-1: Purpose
4-6A-2: Use Regulations
4-6A-3: Site And Structure Requirements
4-6A-4: Performance Standards
4-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The C-1 general business district area is designed primarily for the retail
shopping activities of persons residing in the trading area and to permit such
service and retail uses as shall be compatible with each other as distinguished
from nonretail activities which are not conducive to enhancing a retail
shopping area.
4-6A-2: USE REGULATIONS:
Bakeries where all goods are sold on the premises at retail.
Banks, currency exchanges, savings and loan associations and finance companies
(but not payday loan stores). Drive-up windows and freestanding ATMs shall be
permitted only as an accessory use when they are auxiliary to the indoor
banking or financial operations and physically integrated with the principal
building. No freestanding ATMs shall be located within any setback or existing
parking spaces.
Barbershops and beauty parlors.
Book and stationery stores.
Churches and uses incidental thereto, including rectories and parish houses.
Cleaning establishments where work is done elsewhere (pick up stations only).
Convents, monasteries and seminaries.
Department stores.
Dress and millinery shops employing not more than five (5) persons engaged in
the making of dresses or hats.
Drugstores.
Electric appliance shops employing not more than five (5) persons engaged in
repairing.
Florist shops.
Furniture stores.
General retail stores.
Grocery and fruit stores.
Hand laundries employing not more than five (5) persons.
Hardware stores.
Junior colleges, community colleges, colleges and universities, and uses
accessory and incidental thereto.
Launderettes (self-service laundries).
Meat markets where no stripping or slaughtering is involved.
Medical office/clinic; except when a medical office/clinic or a portion of a
premises to be occupied by a medical office/clinic is in excess of four
thousand (4,000) gross square feet and the location of the proposed medical
office/clinic is on 95th Street or Cicero Avenue then a special use permit is
required.
Offices; except, that medical, dental or healthcare offices must meet the
parking requirements of subsection
4-13-4G of this title.
Parking in conjunction with the uses established in the district and subject to
chapter 13 of this title.
Pet shops with no permanent boarding of animals.
Photographic studios.
Public parking lots or garages for the temporary parking of vehicles, but not
including repair service.
Radio, television sales and service and radio and TV studios if an accessory
operation.
Restaurants (banquet hall, carryout and full service).
Retail jewelry stores.
Satellite dish antennas subject to section
4-2-12 of this title (permit required, $25.00).
Self-service dry cleaning establishments.
Shoe repair shops.
Signs, subject to provisions of the sign regulations.
Tailor shops employing not more than five (5) persons engaged in making
clothes.
Uses customarily incidental to any of the above uses and accessory buildings
when located on the same lot.
All business or service of aforesaid stores, shops and businesses shall be
conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building, except for automobile
parking and off street loading areas.
The parking of trucks as an accessory use, when used in the conduct of a
permitted business listed in this section shall be limited to one vehicle per
permitted use of not more than one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity. If the
vehicles are housed in a wholly enclosed garage, the number of such vehicles
may be increased to four (4) provided there is no violation of setback in area
regulation provisions.
Transportation shelters by approval only (see section
4-2-4-4 of this title).
Provided they are located above the main floor and above a business use
permitted in this district, the following uses are permitted:
Apartments by special use only.
Business, music, dance, beauty or commercial schools, excluding trade schools.
Lodge rooms and halls.
Offices.
Radio and TV studios. (Ord. 20-13-32)
4-6A-3: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building shall be erected or enlarged to exceed a
height of three (3) stories nor shall it exceed forty five feet (45') in
height, except as otherwise provided in section
4-2-8 of this title.
   B.   Yards: No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or
structure, shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the following yards
and lot areas, including adequate off street parking facilities as defined in
chapter 13 of this title, are provided and maintained in connection with such
building, structure or enlargement:
      1.   Front Yard: All new structures permitted in this district shall be
set back from all street lot lines a distance of five feet (5').
      2.   Side Yard: Where a lot is used for any of the purposes permitted in
this district and is located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets,
and where a residence district or residence lot adjoins the rear of said lot,
the side yard on the side of the lot adjacent to the street shall not be less
than ten feet (10') in width; except, that the building width of the lot shall
not be reduced to less than twenty feet (20'). In all other cases, a side yard
is not required except on the side of a lot adjoining a residence district or a
residence lot, in which case there shall be a side yard of not less than five
feet (5').
      3.   Rear Yard:
         a.   Where the rear lot line abuts a public alley adjacent to a
residential area, no rear lot is required if adequate and usable loading and
unloading and refuse disposal facilities are provided elsewhere. Where adequate
loading and unloading and refuse disposal facilities are not otherwise
provided, there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than ten feet
(10').
         b.   Where no public alley exists, there shall be a rear yard of the
same depth as that required for either the rear or side yard, whichever is
lesser, in the adjacent residential lot; however, in no case shall the rear
yard be less than ten feet (10').
         c.   Where a lot in this district abuts a lot in the nonresidential
district, there shall be a rear yard of not less than five feet (5').
4-6A-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Buildings, premises and uses permitted in this district are subject to the
applicable performance standards listed in section
4-8-8 of this title. (Ords. 75-10-55, 77-8-7, 77-29-48, 81-17-29, 87-17-70, 93-
23-107, 00-5-12, 08-21-66, 12-05-17, 14-23-49, 15-16-63)
ARTICLE B. C-2 GENERAL SERVICE DISTRICT
SECTION:
4-6B-1: Purpose
4-6B-2: Standards
4-6B-3: Use Regulations
4-6B-4: Site And Structure Requirements
4-6B-5: Performance Standards
4-6B-1: PURPOSE:
The C-2 general service district is designed primarily to permit secondary
retail, administrative, wholesale and other related activities. All of the
following restrictions are imposed to protect and foster the character of the
village.
4-6B-2: STANDARDS:
All buildings, structures and uses in the C-2 general service district shall
comply with the following regulations:
   A.   Operations Within Enclosed Building: All operations and activities
shall be conducted or maintained wholly inside enclosed buildings, except for
automobile parking, off street loading areas, and sale of automobile fuel and
lubricants. Outdoor storage of material and motor vehicles is permitted;
provided, that any areas so utilized shall be effectively screened, the year
around, to a height necessary but not less than four feet (4').
   B.   Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever
necessary to avoid casting direct light upon any residence lot or into public
streets, parks or schools.
   C.   Processing Raw Materials Restricted: No raw materials shall be
processed into any of the following basic products: metals of any kind, gases,
plastics, textiles, paper and leather.
   D.   Grounds: All premises shall be furnished with all weather surface
walks, and, except for parking areas, ground shall be planted and landscaped.
   E.   Automobile Service Stations: Overnight storage of vehicles in
automobile service stations shall be limited to the number which can be
accommodated inside the building except that additional outside parking of
vehicles may be permitted if the vehicles are to be repaired during the next
working day.
4-6B-3: USE REGULATIONS:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Any use permitted in the C-1 general business district regulations.
Amusements.
Apartments by special use only.
Automobile repair shops, exclusive of automobile collision repair services and
automobile painting businesses as referenced in section
4-8-3 of this title.
Automobile service stations for the retail sale and dispensing of fuel,
lubricants, tires, batteries, accessories and supplies, including installation
and minor services customarily incidental thereto. Facilities for chassis and
gear lubrication and for washing of not more than four (4) vehicles are
permitted only if enclosed in a building.
Automotive vehicle rental/leasing.
Bicycle shops.
Bowling alleys.
Business and commercial offices and music and dance studios.
Business, music, dance, beauty or commercial schools, excluding trade schools.
Car wash operations, when accessory to an automobile service station use. For
approval of car washes as a principal use in the C-2 and C-3 Zoning Districts,
see Section
4-14-8 .
Catering services.
Cleaning establishments employing not more than ten (10) persons.
Conservatories and greenhouses.
Delicatessens, providing there is no consumption of food on the premises or on
the property.
Dyeing establishments employing not more than ten (10) persons.
Employment agencies.
Health clubs.
Hospitals and clinics for animals, but without open kennels and runways.
Hotels and motels.
Laboratories.
Laundries employing not more than ten (10) persons.
Locksmith shops.
Lodge halls.
Medical office/clinic; except when a medical office/clinic or a portion of a
premises to be occupied by a medical office/clinic is in excess of four
thousand (4,000) gross square feet and the location of the proposed medical
office/clinic is on 95th Street or Cicero Avenue then a special use permit is
required.
Messenger and telegraph service stations.
Nursing and convalescent homes.
Offices; except, that medical, dental or other healthcare offices must meet the
parking requirements of subsection
4-13-4G of this title.
Parking in conjunction with the uses established in this district and subject
to chapter 13 of this title.
Printing shops.
Public garages for temporary storage of vehicles but not including repair.
Radio and television studios.
Roofing, plastering, carpentry, plumbing and electric shops (no outside
storage).
Sales and show rooms, providing all operations and activities shall be
conducted or maintained inside wholly enclosed buildings except that area for
outdoor display of new and used merchandise shall be restricted to a maximum of
two (2) square feet of outdoor space for each one square foot of sales area
within the building on the same site. Parking requirements shall be deducted
before computations are made by the above formula.
Satellite dish antennas subject to section
4-2-12 of this title (permit required, $25.00).
Sharpening and grinding shops.
Signs.
Taverns and cocktail lounges. (See subsection 2-2-2G of this code.) Petition
required of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
Tire and battery shops.
Transportation shelters by approval only (see section
4-2-4-4 of this title).
Undertaking establishments.
The parking of trucks as an accessory use when used in the conduct of a
permitted business listed in this section, shall be limited to one vehicle per
permitted use, of not more than one and one-half (11/2) tons’ capacity. If the
vehicles are housed in a wholly enclosed garage, the number of such vehicles
may be increased to four (4), provided there is no violation of setback and
area regulation provisions. (Ords. 20-13-32, 24-09-29)
4-6B-4: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building shall be erected nor shall any existing
structure be enlarged or altered so as to exceed forty five feet (45') in
height or a maximum of three (3) stories, except as provided in section
4-2-8 of this title.
   B.   Yards: No building shall be erected nor shall any existing structure be
enlarged or altered unless the following yards and lot areas are provided and
maintained in connection with such building, structure or enlargement:
      1.   Front Yard: All new structures permitted in this district shall be
set back from all street lot lines a distance of five feet (5').
      2.   Side Yard: Where a lot is used for any of the purposes permitted in
this district and is located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets,
and where a residence district or residence lot adjoins the rear of said lot,
the side yard on the side of the lot adjacent to the street shall not be less
than ten feet (10') in width; except, that the building width of the lot shall
not be reduced to less than twenty feet (20'). In all other cases, a side yard
is not required except on the side of a lot adjoining a residence district or a
residence lot, in which case there shall be a side yard of not less than five
feet (5').
      3.   Rear Yard:
         a.   Where a rear lot line abuts a public alley adjacent to a
residential area, no rear yard is required if adequate and usable loading and
unloading and refuse disposal facilities are provided elsewhere. Where adequate
loading and unloading and refuse disposal facilities are not otherwise
provided, there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than ten feet
(10').
         b.   Where no public alley exists, there shall be a rear yard of the
same depth as that required for either the rear or side yard whichever is
lesser in the adjacent residential lot, however, in no case shall the rear yard
be less than ten feet (10').
         c.   Where a lot in this district abuts a lot in a nonresidential
district, there shall be a rear yard of not less than five feet (5').
4-6B-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Buildings, premises and uses permitted in this district are subject to all
performance standards listed in chapter 8 of this title. (Ords. 75-10-55, 77-8-
7, 77-29-48, 81-17-29, 87-17-70, 93-24-107, 01-19-69, 15-16-63)
ARTICLE C. C-3 REGIONAL SHOPPING DISTRICT
SECTION:
4-6C-1: Purpose
4-6C-2: Use Regulations
4-6C-3: Site And Structure Requirements
4-6C-4: Parking Requirements
4-6C-5: Development Plan
4-6C-6: Zoning Requirements
4-6C-1: PURPOSE:
A regional shopping district is designed primarily to embrace comprehensive
shopping centers where all phases of retail business operations are carried on
as one unit or a series of units. In light of the foregoing, no less than
seventy five percent (75%) of the total square footage of the building(s)
located on a parcel zoned C-3 regional shopping district shall be devoted to
retail business uses, as opposed to service business or other uses.
4-6C-2: USE REGULATIONS:
A building or premises within the C-3 district shall be used only for the
following purposes:
   A.   Uses Permitted:
      Any use permitted in the C-1 general business district or C-2 general
service district, except residential uses.
      Bus depots and cab stands.
      Churches and uses incidental thereto, including rectories and parish
houses.
      Convents, monasteries and seminaries.
      Drive-in restaurants, fast food or cafeteria style restaurants.
      First aid stations for the treatment of emergency cases.
      Junior colleges, community colleges, colleges and universities, and uses
accessory and incidental thereto.
      Outdoor amusements; provided, however, that the total ground area
occupied by such outdoor amusement uses shall not exceed five percent (5%) of
the total C-3 regional shopping district area.
      Payday loan stores.
      Residential uses.
      Satellite dish antennas subject to section
4-2-12 of this title (permit required, $25.00).
   B.   Accessory Buildings And Uses:
      1.   Building Setback: No building or structure shall be erected or
maintained within twenty five feet (25') of any residential district boundary
line or within twenty five feet (25') of any dedicated public right of way. The
first ten feet (10') of such required setback shall be landscaped as a minimum
according to a plan approved by the Zoning and Planning Commission. The
remaining fifteen feet (15') of the setback may be used for access drives but
shall not be used for the parking of customer vehicles or for loading dock
facilities. If the fifteen feet (15') is not used as an access drive, then the
fifteen feet (15') shall be landscaped.
      2.   Accessory uses shall include signs and nameplates, but the size and
location of any signs shall conform to the following requirements:
         a.   There may be a total of not more than two (2) freestanding ground
signs, providing none of such signs shall exceed a total of one thousand
(1,000) square feet of total face area on all faces and all signs shall be
limited to advertising the shopping district, its merchandise or services. No
sign shall exceed forty five feet (45') in height above grade.
         b.   Signs may be attached to one or more facades or to the roof of
any building providing they conform to the following requirements:
            (1)   They shall not project more than twenty four inches (24")
from any facade.
            (2)   The total area of signs attached to a facade or roof of a
building shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the gross floor area including
basements of the building to which such sign is attached, but in no event shall
the total area of any single sign exceed two thousand (2,000) square feet for
combined faces, but it need not contain less than fifty (50) square feet.
   C.   Open Areas; Merchandise Storage And Sale: No merchandise, material or
equipment shall be stored in any open areas, but may be kept and displayed in
an open area for immediate sale or temporary display not to exceed three (3)
days in any one month. However, garden merchandise of a seasonal nature may be
sold from an open area providing no required parking spaces are used.
   D.   Parking: Parking subject to chapter 13 of this title, except where
specifically covered herein.
   E.   Signs: Signs subject to village ordinance, except where specifically
covered herein 1 .
   F.   Transportation Shelters: Transportation shelters by approval only (see
section
4-2-4-4 of this title).
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 8 of this code.
4-6C-3: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building or other structure shall exceed three (3)
stories in height nor exceed forty five feet (45') in height; provided, that an
exception may be made for elevator penthouses, water towers and decorative
building projections; and further provided, that a single structure having a
maximum area on any one floor above the third story not exceeding ten thousand
(10,000) square feet and which is located not less than two hundred fifty feet
(250') from each boundary of the district may be erected to a height of not
more than ten (10) stories, or one hundred fifty feet (150').
   B.   Setback And Landscaping:
      1.   Building Setback: No building or structure shall be erected or
maintained within twenty five feet (25') of any residential district boundary
line or within twenty five feet (25') of any dedicated public right of way. The
first ten feet (10') of such required setback shall be landscaped as a minimum
according to a plan approved by the planning and development commission. The
remaining fifteen feet (15') of the setback may be used for access drives but
shall not be used for the parking of customer vehicles or for loading dock
facilities. If the fifteen feet (15') is not used as an access drive, then the
fifteen feet (15') shall be landscaped.
      2.   Buffer Strip To Residential: A buffer strip not less than twenty
five feet (25') wide shall be provided along any residential boundary line
abutting or adjoining any boundary line of the regional shopping district. Such
buffer strip shall be sodded, planted and shrubbed in such a manner as to form
a green area and a permanent screen not less than six feet (6') in height.
4-6C-4: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Where the C-3 regional shopping district contains a gross area of ten
(10) acres or less, the area for vehicular parking shall be not less than three
and one-half (31/2) times the gross floor area of all structures erected on
land used for the purpose permitted herein.
Where a portion of the gross floor area of any structure erected is used for a
business, music, dance, beauty or commercial school, the amount of said gross
floor area devoted to said school use(s) shall not be included in the gross
floor area of all structures erected on the land for the purposes of making the
parking area calculation provided for in this subsection. Instead, the parking
requirements for said school use(s) shall be calculated as provided for in
subsection 4-13-4E of this title, and shall be in addition to the parking area
calculation, based on gross floor area, provided for in this subsection.
When a parcel of property is developed independently of the rest of the C-
3 shopping center and is, in fact, a fractional portion of the entire C-
3 district and such fractional parcel is less than five (5) net acres in area,
then the parking requirements for the specific use or uses contained therein
shall be the same as the parking requirements contained in chapter 13 of this
title for the individual use or uses.
Where a portion of the gross floor area of any structure erected is used for a
telemarketing or mass mailing business, the amount of said gross floor area
devoted to said business use(s) shall not be included in the gross floor area
of all structures erected on the land for the purposes of making the parking
area calculation provided for in this subsection. Instead, the parking
requirements for said business use(s) shall be calculated as provided for in
subsection 4-13-4I of this title, and shall be in addition to the parking area
calculation, based on gross floor area, provided for in this subsection.
   B.   Where the C-3 regional shopping district contains a gross area of more
than ten (10) acres, the area for vehicular parking shall be not less than
three (3) times the gross floor area of all of the structures erected on land
used for the purposes permitted herein.
Where a portion of the gross floor area of any structure erected is used for a
business, music, dance, beauty or commercial school, the amount of said gross
floor area devoted to said school use(s) shall not be included in the gross
floor area of all structures erected on the land for the purposes of making the
parking area calculation provided for in this subsection. Instead, the parking
requirements for said school use(s) shall be calculated as provided for in
subsection 4-13-4E of this title, and shall be in addition to the parking area
calculation, based on gross floor area, provided for in this subsection.
Where a portion of the gross floor area of any structure erected is used for a
telemarketing or mass mailing business, the amount of said gross floor area
devoted to said business use(s) shall not be included in the gross floor area
of all structures erected on the land for the purposes of making the parking
area calculation provided for in this subsection. Instead, the parking
requirements for said business use(s) shall be calculated as provided for in
subsection 4-13-4I of this title, and shall be in addition to the parking area
calculation, based on gross floor area, provided for in this subsection.
   C.   When the existing C-3 regional shopping district does not meet the
present parking requirements, there shall not be a change of use within any of
the buildings that currently exist that would include the following uses,
unless all present parking is increased to accommodate the increased number of
car stalls which would result from such a change in use:
      Amusements.
      Banquet halls.
      Bowling alleys.
      Business, music, dance, beauty or commercial schools.
      Car wash.
      Dance studios.
      Gasoline and oil stations.
      Hotels and motels.
      Lodge and meeting halls.
      Radio and television studios.
      Restaurants.
      Taverns and cocktail lounges.
   D.   In addition to the parking requirements as set forth herein, drive-in
restaurants shall provide additional parking spaces equal in number to fifty
percent (50%) of the capacity in persons of any indoor eating facilities.
4-6C-5: DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Tentative Site Plan: A tentative site plan indicating the areas to be
developed for buildings, the anticipated total gross floor space, the areas to
be developed for parking, the points of ingress and egress, including access
streets where required, and such surveys prepared by qualified experts as may
be required in setting forth and analyzing the effects of the proposed regional
shopping district upon the village shall be submitted to the village manager as
a preliminary to any development of the site.
   B.   Multiple Ownership: Where contiguous land zoned for C-3 purposes is not
under one ownership and when owners of individual pieces from such contiguous
zoning wish to develop their land, notice must be given by the owners to the
Zoning and Planning Commission with complete preliminary plans for the
improvements they intend to make, along with such data as the Zoning and
Planning Commission shall require to decide whether such development is
satisfactory to the future use of the remaining area so zoned.
   C.   Tentative Development Plan: A tentative site and development plan for
the entire C-3 zoned property to be developed, or
any fraction thereof, shall be submitted to the Zoning and Planning Commission.
Acceptance of the site layout and development plan for all or any portion of
the C-3 zoned shopping center district must be approved by the Zoning and
Planning Commission and by the board of trustees of the village prior to any
construction taking place.
   D.   Encouragement Of Innovation: Nothing in this section is intended to
discourage or prohibit innovative ideas. The Zoning and Planning Commission
shall entertain projects which may contain other similar commercial retail and
service uses and residence uses which will be compatible for the purposes of
developing and maintaining a successful commercial, and environmentally
pleasing atmosphere. The Zoning and Planning Commission shall also entertain
uses which, because of rapid technological changes and business innovations do
not presently exist or are not currently being listed in normal zoning use
groups.
4-6C-6: ZONING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No land may be zoned to C-3 unless it has a minimum of ten (10) acres
of land under one ownership.
   B.   Land which is zoned to C-3, subsequent to the effective date hereof,
must be developed as a unit and may not be subdivided. (Ords. 75-10-55, 77-8-7,
77-29-48, 81-17-29, 81-36-77, 87-7-26, 87-17-70, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 93-24-107,
95-17-59, 00-5-12, 00-18-49, 00-20-62, 08-21-66, 19-16-66)
CHAPTER 7
O OFFICE DISTRICT
SECTION:
4-7-1: General Regulations
4-7-2: Use Regulations
4-7-3: Site And Structure Requirements
4-7-4: Parking Requirements
4-7-5: Performance Standards
4-7-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter, are the O office district regulations.
4-7-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Uses Permitted: No building or premises shall be used and no buildings
shall hereafter be erected or altered within the O office district except for
the necessary use to which any one of the following places or establishments
may be put:
      Business offices, such as district offices, sales offices, branch
offices.
      Dental and medical clinics and/or offices.
      Insurance, real estate, financial institutions, finance companies and
other similar business and professional offices.
      Private or professional schools, except those of an industrial character
and except trade schools.
      Signs, subject to village ordinances 1 .
      Transportation shelters by approval only (see section
4-2-4-4 of this title).
   B.   Additional Uses Permitted: As part of an office complex and contained
within the building whose main use is listed in subsection A of this section,
the following uses are permitted provided that the combined total of such uses
within the building shall not occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the
total floor area:
      Barbershops.
      Drugstores.
      Restaurants (full service).
      Satellite dish antennas subject to section
4-2-12 of this title (permit required, $25.00).
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 8 of this code.
4-7-3: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building hereafter erected or structurally altered
in the O office district shall exceed forty five feet (45') in height or three
(3) stories.
   B.   Yards: No building shall be erected nor shall any existing structure be
enlarged or altered unless the following yards and lot areas are provided and
maintained in connection with such building, structure or enlargement:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than five feet (5') in depth
along the front lot line shall be provided.
      2.   Rear Yard:
         a.   Where the rear lot line abuts a public alley adjacent to a
residential area, no rear yard is required if adequate and usable loading and
unloading and refuse disposal facilities are provided elsewhere. Where adequate
loading and unloading and refuse disposal facilities are not otherwise
provided, there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than ten feet
(10').
         b.   Where no public alley exists, there shall be a rear yard of the
same depth as that required for either the rear or side yard, whichever is
lesser, in the adjacent residential lot.
         c.   Where a lot in this district abuts a lot in a nonresidential
district, there shall be a rear lot of not less than five feet (5').
      3.   Side Yard: A side yard is not required except on the side of a lot
adjoining a residence district or residential lot, in which case there shall be
a side yard of not less than five feet (5').
   C.   Courts: Courts are permitted, provided the depth of the court is not
greater than the width of the court.
4-7-4: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Parking provisions for uses in this district are set forth in chapter 13 of
this title.
4-7-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The performance standards provided in section
4-8-8 of this title apply to the O office district. (Ords. 75-10-55, 77-29-48,
81-17-29, 87-17-70, 93-24-107, 08-21-66)
CHAPTER 8
M-1 RESTRICTED MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
SECTION:
4-8-1: General Conditions
4-8-2: Conditions Of Use
4-8-3: Uses Permitted
4-8-4: Special Uses
4-8-5: Yards
4-8-6: Maximum Floor Area Ratio
4-8-7: Regulations Along Business And Residence District Boundaries
4-8-8: Performance Standards
4-8-8-1: Noise
4-8-8-2: Vibration
4-8-8-3: Smoke And Particulate Matter
4-8-8-4: Toxic Matter
4-8-8-5: Noxious And Odorous Matter
4-8-8-6: Fire And Explosive Hazards
4-8-8-7: Glare And Heat
4-8-8-8: Review
4-8-9: Height Limitations
4-8-10: Adult Uses
4-8-1: GENERAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   Permitted uses of land or buildings, as hereinafter listed, shall be
permitted only under the conditions specified. No buildings or land shall be
devoted to any use other than a use permitted hereinafter with the exception of
the following:
      1.   Uses lawfully established on the effective date hereof.
      2.   Special uses allowed in accordance with the provisions of section
4-8-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Uses lawfully established on the effective date hereof and rendered
nonconforming by the provisions hereof shall be subject to the regulations of
chapter 12 of this title.
   C.   Activities involving the storage, utilization or manufacture of
materials or products which decompose by detonation are permitted only when
specifically allowed by the board of trustees.
4-8-2: CONDITIONS OF USE:
Uses permitted in the M-1 restricted manufacturing district are subject to the
following conditions:
   A.   All business, servicing or processing, except for off street parking
and off street loading as regulated by chapter 13 of this title or
establishments of the drive in type offering goods or services directly to
customers waiting in parked motor vehicles, shall be conducted within
completely enclosed buildings, unless otherwise provided hereinafter.
   B.   All storage within one hundred feet (100') of a residence district
boundary, except motor vehicles in operable condition, shall be within
completely enclosed buildings or effectively screened by a solid wall or fence
(including solid entrance and exit gates) not less than six feet (6') nor more
than eight feet (8') in height.
   C.   Outdoor storage yards shall be effectively screened by a solid wall or
fence (including solid entrance and exit gates) not less than eight feet (8')
in height.
4-8-3: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses are permitted in the M-1 restricted manufacturing district:
Accessory uses, incidental to and on the same zoning lot as a principal use.
Adult uses as defined and provided for in section
4-8-10 of this chapter.
Agricultural buildings and structures.
Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or storage of
materials, goods or products, except those uses involving the storage,
utilization or manufacture of materials or products which decompose by
detonation, which conform with the performance standards set forth in section
4-8-8 of this chapter which shall not be injurious or offensive to the
occupants of adjacent premises by reason of the emission or creation of noise,
vibration, smoke, dust or other particulate matter, toxic or noxious materials,
odors, fire or explosive hazards or glare of heat. Storage facility businesses
that provide temporary storage for vehicles, boats, equipment, and other
personal property are included within this permitted use and are subject to the
above conditions for such a use.
Auto laundries.
Automobile collision repair services which include vehicle body, frame and/or
fender straightening and repair, dent removal and the painting of vehicles in
relation thereto.
Automobile dealers. New car show rooms, auto preparation areas, auto storage
and other accessory uses normally consistent with a new car dealership.
Automobile painting businesses.
Automobile service stations for the retail sale and dispensing of fuel,
lubricants, tires, batteries, accessories and supplies, including installation
and minor services customarily incidental thereto. Facilities for chassis and
gear lubrication are permitted only if enclosed in a building.
Automotive vehicle rental/leasing.
Banks and other financial institutions (but not payday loan stores).
Building material sales and storage.
Cartage and express facilities, truck terminals, truck parking and any fleet
truck operations.
Contractors', architects' and engineers' offices, shops and yards, such as
building, cement, electrical, heating, ventilating and air conditioning,
masonry, painting, plumbing, refrigeration and roofing.
Currency exchanges.
Drugstores.
Dry cleaning establishments, with no limitation on number of employees.
Dwelling units for watchmen and their families located on the premises where
they are employed in such capacity, subject to approval by the Zoning and
Planning Commission and the board of trustees.
Fuel and ice sales.
Garages for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles.
Greenhouses, wholesale.
Highway maintenance shops and yards.
Laundries, with no limitation on number of employees.
Lodges and offices of organizations.
Mail order houses.
Medical and dental clinics.
Packing and crating.
Parking lots, other than accessory, and subject to the provisions of chapter 13
of this title.
Printing.
Public utility and service uses, as follows:
Bus stations, bus terminals, bus turnarounds (off street), bus garages and bus
lots.
Electric substations.
Fire stations.
Gas regulator stations.
Police stations.
Railroad passenger stations.
Railroad rights of way.
Telephone exchanges, telephone transmission equipment buildings and microwave
relay towers.
Utility service substations; electric, gas, telephone and water.
Waterworks, reservoirs, pumping stations and filtration plants.
Publishing.
Radar installations and towers.
Radio and television studios, stations and towers, transmitting and receiving.
Recreational buildings and community centers, commercial or noncommercial.
Restaurants (banquet halls, carryout and full service).
Retail and wholesale sales and showrooms when connected with a manufacturing
use.
Satellite dish antennas subject to section
4-2-12 of this title (permit required $25.00).
Signs, subject to village ordinances 1 .
Stadiums, auditoriums and arenas, open or enclosed.
Telephone booths and coin telephones (outdoor).
Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period not to exceed the
duration of such construction.
Temporary real estate tract offices for the purpose of conducting the sale of
the tract upon which such tract office is located, for a period not to exceed
two (2) years.
Trade schools.
Transportation shelters by approval only (see Section
4-2-4-4 of this Title).
Water systems, individual, as regulated by Village ordinances.
Weighing stations operated by the State of Illinois.
Wholesale establishments.
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 8 of this code.
4-8-4: SPECIAL USES:
Special uses, as hereinafter listed, may be allowed in the M-1 Restricted
Manufacturing District subject to the issuance of special use permits and in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 14 of this Title:
Accessory uses incidental to and on the same zoning lot as a principal use.
Air, railroad and water freight terminals, railroad switching and
classification yards, repair shops and round houses.
Airports and commercial heliports, including aircraft landing fields, runways,
flight strips and flying schools together with hangers, terminal buildings, and
other auxiliary facilities. Automobile and truck testing stations.
Heliports, private.
House trailer parks.
Indoor and/or outdoor amusements.
Planned developments.
Signs in excess of forty five feet (45') in height from curb level.
Solid waste treatment plants for community use.
Theaters, automobile drive-in.
Used automobile dealers. (Ord. 25-06-09)
4-8-5: YARDS:
   A.   Minimum Front Yard:
      1.   Front yards shall be provided in accordance with the regulations
hereinafter indicated. Front yards shall be unobstructed from ground level to
sky, except as allowed in Section
4-2-8 of this Title. All accessory buildings which are attached to principal
buildings shall comply with the yard requirements of the principal building.
      2.   In the M-1 Restricted Manufacturing District there shall be provided
a front yard of not less than twenty feet (20') in depth along the front lot
line; however, agricultural buildings and structures shall provide a front yard
of not less than one hundred feet (100') in depth along the front lot line.
      3.   Telephone booths and coin telephones (outdoor) shall be permitted in
the required front yard in the M-1 District. However, if such telephone is
installed near an intersection of two (2) streets or rights of way, the minimum
setback from one of such intersecting right of way lines shall be ten feet
(10').
   B.   Minimum Corner Side Yard:
      1.   Corner side yards shall be provided in accordance with the
regulations hereinafter indicated. Corner side yards shall be unobstructed from
ground level to sky, except as allowed in Section
4-2-8 of this Title. All accessory buildings which are attached to principal
buildings shall comply with the yard requirements of the principal buildings.
      2.   In the M-1 Restricted Manufacturing District, in every instance
where the side property line is adjacent to a public street, there shall be
provided a corner side yard of not less than twenty feet (20') in depth;
except, however, agricultural buildings and structures shall provide a corner
side yard of not less than fifty feet (50') in depth along all lot lines that
coincide with a lot line in an adjacent business or residence district.
      3.   Telephone booths and coin telephones (outdoor) shall be permitted in
the required corner side yard. However, if such telephone is installed near an
intersection of two (2) streets or rights of way, the minimum setback from one
of such intersecting right of way lines shall be ten feet (10'),and in
conformance with Section
9-2-2 of this Code.
   C.   Minimum Transitional Yards: When an M-1 Restricted Manufacturing
District adjoins either a residence district or a business district,
transitional yards shall be provided in accordance with the regulations
hereinafter indicated. Transitional yards shall be unobstructed from ground
level to sky, except as allowed in Section
4-2-8 of this Title. All accessory buildings which are attached to principal
buildings shall comply with the yard requirements of the principal building.
      1.   In the M-1 District, the minimum transitional yard requirements for
all structures, other than agricultural buildings and structures shall be not
less than those specified below:
         a.   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line in
an adjacent business or residence district, a yard shall be provided along such
side lot line. Such yard shall be not less than twenty feet (20') in width.
         b.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line in an
adjacent business or residence district, a yard shall be provided along such
side lot line. Such yard shall be not less than twenty feet (20') in depth.
         c.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line in an
adjacent business or residence district, a yard shall be provided along such
rear lot line. Such yard shall be not less than twenty feet (20') in depth.
      2.   In the M-1 District, agricultural buildings and structures shall
provide a transitional yard of not less than fifty feet (50') in depth along
all lot lines that coincide with lot lines in an adjacent business or residence
district.
4-8-6: MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA RATIO:
The floor area ratio requirements, as set forth under this District, shall
determine the maximum floor area allowable for the building or buildings (total
floor area of both principal and accessory buildings) in direct ratio to the
gross area of the zoning lot. In the M-1 District, the floor area ratio shall
not exceed six-tenths (0.6).
4-8-7: REGULATIONS ALONG BUSINESS AND RESIDENCE DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
In an M-1 District which abuts a business and residence district and along any
zoning district boundary separating an M-1 District from a business or
residence district, there shall be provided, with respect to all buildings,
structures and uses constructed or established after the effective date hereof,
unobstructed open space from ground level to sky (except as allowed in Section
4-2-8 of this Title), in accordance with the regulations established
hereinafter.
   A.   In the M-1 District, on properties or portions thereof located adjacent
to a side or rear property line in a business or residence district, if any
point on the exterior surface of any building or structure is at a greater
height than thirty five feet (35') above curb level, such point projected
vertically upon the ground shall in no case be nearer to the business or
residence district boundary line than a horizontal distance equal to one and
one-half (11/2) times the height of such point above curb level. However,
stacks, tanks, bulkheads or ventilating equipment, including towers enclosing
same, shall be exempt from such limitation if not exceeding in the aggregate
twenty five feet (25') in lineal dimension parallel to the street for any one
hundred feet (100') of street frontage. Parapets not exceeding three feet (3')
in height shall also be exempt from such limitations.
   B.   In the M-1 District, on properties or portions thereof located adjacent
to a side or rear property line in a business or residence district, if any
point on the exterior surface of any building or structure is at a greater
height than thirty five feet (35') above curb level, the vertical projection of
such point upon the ground shall in no case be nearer to the side or rear lot
line of any property in the adjacent business or residence district than a
horizontal distance equal to the height of such point above curb level. However
stacks, tanks, bulkheads or ventilating equipment, including towers enclosing
same, shall be exempt from such height limitation if not exceeding in the
aggregate twenty five feet (25') in lineal dimension parallel to such business
or residence district lot line(s) for any one hundred feet (100') of length of
such lot line(s). Parapets not exceeding three feet (3') in height shall also
be exempt from such limitations.
4-8-8: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
4-8-8-1: NOISE:
   A.   Compliance Required: Any use established in the M-1 Restricted
Manufacturing District after the effective date hereof shall be so operated as
to comply with the performance standards governing noise set forth hereinafter
for the District. No use lawfully established on the effective date hereof
shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with, or further conflict with,
the performance standards governing noise established hereinafter.
   B.   Measurement of Sound: Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level
meter and associated octave band filter manufactured according to standards
prescribed by the American Standards Association. Measurements shall be made
using the flat network of the sound level meter. Impulsive type noises shall be
subject to the performance standards hereinafter prescribed, provided that such
noises shall be capable of being accurately measured with such equipment.
Noises capable of being so measured, for the purpose of this Title, shall be
those noises which cause rapid fluctuations of the needle of the sound level
meter with a variation of no more than plus or minus two (2) decibels. Noises
incapable of being so measured, such as those of an irregular and intermittent
nature, shall be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
   C.   Maximum Noise Levels: In the M-1 Restricted Manufacturing District, at
no point on the boundary of a residence district or a business district shall
the sound pressure level of any operation or plant (other then background
noises produced by sources not under control of this Title, such as the
operation of motor vehicles or other transportation facilities) exceed the
decibel limits in the octave bands designated below.
                   Maximum Permitted
Octave Band        Sound Level
Frequency          (in decibels)
cycles per second) Along Residence
                   District Boundaries
                   Maximum Permitted
Octave Band        Sound Level
Frequency          (in decibels)
cycles per second) Along Residence
                   District Boundaries
0 to 75            72
75 to 150          67
150 to 300         59
300 to 600         52
600 to 1,200       46
1,200 to 2,400     40
2,400 to 4,800     34
Above 4,800        32
 
Octave Band         Maximum Permitted
Frequency           Sound Level
(cycles per second) (in decibels) Along Business
                    District Boundaries
Octave Band         Maximum Permitted
Frequency           Sound Level
(cycles per second) (in decibels) Along Business
                    District Boundaries
0 to 75             78
75 to 150           74
150 to 300          66
300 to 600          59
600 to 1,200        53
1,200 to 2,400      47
2,400 to 4,800      41
Above 4,800         39
 
4-8-8-2: VIBRATION:
   A.   Compliance Required: Any use established in the M-1 Restricted
Manufacturing District after the effective date hereof shall be so operated as
to comply with the performance standards governing vibration set forth
hereinafter. No use lawfully established on the effective date hereof shall be
so altered or modified as to conflict with, or further conflict with the
performance standards governing vibration established hereinafter.
   B.   Maximum Limits: In the M-1 Restricted Manufacturing District any
industrial operation or activity which shall cause at any time and at any point
along the nearest adjacent lot line, earthborne vibrations (other than
background vibrations produced by some source not under control of this Title,
such as the operation of motor vehicles or other transportation facilities) in
excess of the limits set forth in column I is prohibited. In addition, any
industrial operation or activity which shall cause at any time and at any point
along a residence district boundary line, earthborne vibrations in excess of
the limits oat forth in column II is prohibited. Vibration shall be expressed
as displacement in inches and shall be measured with a three-component
measuring system approved by the Village Manager.
 
Frequency           I* Displacement II* Displacement
(cycles per second) (inches)        (inches)
0 to 10             .0008           .0004
10 to 20            .0005           .0002
20 to 30            .0002           .0001
30 to 40            .0002           .0001
40 and over         .0001           .0001
 
*Steady State - Vibrations, for the purpose of this Title, which are
continuous, or, in discrete pulses, are more frequent than one hundred (100)
per minute. Impact vibration, that is discrete pulses which do not exceed one
hundred (100) impulses per minute, shall not cause in excess of twice the
displacements stipulated.
4-8-8-3: SMOKE AND PARTICULATE MATTER:
   A.   Compliance Required: Any use established in the M-1 Restricted
Manufacturing District after the effective date hereof shall be so operated as
to comply with the performance standards governing smoke and particulate matter
established on the effective date hereof and shall be permitted to be altered,
enlarged, expanded or modified, provided that new sources of smoke and/or
particulate matter conform to the performance standards established
hereinafter. The total emission weight of particulate matter from all sources
within the boundaries of the lot shall not exceed the net amount permitted in
the M-1 District after such alteration, enlargement or modification.
   B.   Prohibited Emissions:
      1.   In addition to the performance standards specified hereinafter, the
emission of smoke or particulate matter in such manner or quantity as to be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall henceforth be unlawful.
      2.   The emission, from all sources within any lot area of particulate
matter containing more than ten percent (10%) by weight of particles having o
particle diameter larger than forty four (44) microns is prohibited.
      3.   Dust and other types of air pollution borne by the wind from such
sources as storage areas, yards, roads and so forth within the lot boundaries
shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling or other
acceptable means. Emission of particulate matter from such sources in excess of
the weight limitations specified hereinafter is prohibited.
   C.   Ringelmann Chart: For the purpose of grading the density of smoke, the
Ringelmann Chart, published and used by the United States Bureau of Mines,
shall be employed. The emission of smoke or particulate matter of a density
greater than number two (2) on the Ringelmann Chart is prohibited at all times,
except as otherwise provided hereinafter.
   D.   Emission Limits: In the M-1 Restricted Manufacturing District, the
emission of more than twenty (20) smoke units per hour per stack is prohibited,
including smoke of a density in excess of Ringelmann Number two (2). However,
once during any six-hour period, each stack may emit up to thirty five (35)
smoke units, not to exceed Ringelmann Number two (2) when blowing soot or
cleaning fires. Only during fire-cleaning periods, however, shall smoke of
Ringelmann Number three (3) be permitted, and then for not more than four (4)
minutes per period.
The rate of emission of particulate matter from all sources within the
boundaries of any lot shall not exceed a net figure of one pound per acre of
lot area during any one hour, after deducting from the gross hourly emission
per acre the correction factor set forth in the following table:
   Allowance for Height of Emission*
 
Height of Emission Correction
Above Grade (feet) (pounds per
                   hour per acre)
50                 0.01
100                0.06
150                0.10
200                0.16
300                0.30
400                0.50
 
*Interpolate for intermediate values not shown in table. Determination of the
total net rate of emission of particulate matter within the boundaries of any
lot shall be made as follows:
      1.   Determine the maximum emission in pounds per hour from each source
of emission and divide this figure by the number of acres of lot area, thereby
obtaining the gross hourly rate of emission in pounds per acre.
      2.   From each gross hourly rate of emission derived in 1. above, deduct
the correction factor (interpolating as required) for height of emission set
forth in the Table, thereby obtaining the net rate of emission in pounds per
acre per hour from each source of emission.
      3.   Add together the individual net rates of emission derived in 2.
above, to obtain the total net rate of emission from all sources of emission
within the boundaries of the lot. Such total shall not exceed one pound per
acre of lot area during any one hour.
4-8-8-4: TOXIC MATTER:
   A.   Compliance Required: Any use established in the M-1 Restricted
Manufacturing District after the effective date hereof shall be so operated as
to comply with the performance standards governing emission of toxic matter set
forth hereinafter. No use lawfully established on the effective date hereof
shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with, or further conflict with,
the performance standards governing toxic matter established hereinafter.
   B.   Emission Limits: In the M-1 Restricted Manufacturing District, no
activity or operation shall cause, at any time, the discharge of toxic matter
across lot lines in such concentration as to be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, safety, comfort or welfare, or cause injury to property or
business.
4-8-8-5: NOXIOUS AND ODOROUS MATTER:
   A.   Compliance Required: Any use established in the M-1 Restricted
Manufacturing District after the effective date hereof shall be so operated as
to comply with the performance standards governing noxious and odorous
materials established hereinafter. No use lawfully established on the effective
date hereof shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with, or further
conflict with, the performance standards governing noxious and odorous
materials established hereinafter.
   B.   Prohibited Emission: In addition to the performance standards specified
herein, the emission of noxious and odorous matter in such manner or quantity
as to be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or
welfare is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall henceforth be
unlawful.
   C.   Emission Limits: In the M-1 Restricted Manufacturing District, no
activity or operation shall cause at any time the discharge of matter across
lot lines in such concentration as to be noxious. The emission of matter in
such quantities as to be readily detectable as an odor at any point along lot
lines is prohibited.
4-8-8-6: FIRE AND EXPLOSIVE HAZARDS:
   A.   Compliance Required: Any use established in the M-1 Restricted
Manufacturing District after the effective date hereof shall be so operated as
to comply with the performance standards governing fire and explosive hazards
set forth hereinafter for the District. No use lawfully established on the
effective date hereof shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with, or
further conflict with, the performance standards governing fire and explosive
hazards established hereinafter.
   B.   Storage, Utilization and Manufacturing Conditions:
      1.   In the M-1 Restricted Manufacturing District the storage,
utilization and/or manufacture of solid materials or products ranging from
incombustible to moderate burning is permitted.
      2.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of solid materials or
products ranging from free or active burning to intense burning is permitted
provided the following condition is met: Said materials or products shall be
stored, utilized or manufactured within completely enclosed buildings having
incombustible exterior walls and protected throughout by an automatic fire-
extinguishing system.
      3.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of flammable liquids or
materials* which produce flammable or explosive vapors or gases, shall be
permitted in accordance with the following table, exclusive of storage of
finished products in original sealed containers, which shall be unrestricted.
*When flammable gases are stored, utilized or manufactured and measured in
cubic feet, the quantity in cubic feet (at STP) permitted shall not exceed
three hundred (300) times the quantities as listed below.
   Total Capacity of Flammable Materials Permitted
   (In Gallons)
Industries Engaged In Storage Only Above- Under-
                                   ground ground
Industries Engaged In Storage Only                    Above-       Under-
                                                      ground       ground
Materials having a closed cup flash point over 187°F.Prohibited   100,000
From and including 105°F to and in- cluding 187°F.  Prohibited   100,000
Materials having a closed cup flash point of less     Prohibited   100,000
than 105°F.
Industries Engaged In Utilization and Manufacture of  Above-ground Under-ground
Flammable Materials
Materials having a closed cup flash point over 187°F.50,000       100,000
From and including 105°F. to and including 187°F.   20,000       100,000
Materials having a closed cup flash point of less     5,000        100,000
than 105°F.
 
4-8-8-7: GLARE AND HEAT:
   A.   Compliance Required: Any use established in the M-1 Restricted
Manufacturing District after the effective date hereof shall be so operated as
to comply with the performance standards governing glare and heat as set forth
hereinafter. No use lawfully established on the effective date hereof shall be
so altered or modified as to conflict with, or further conflict with, the
performance standards governing glare and heat established hereinafter.
   B.   Regulations: In the M-1 Restricted Manufacturing District, any
operation producing intense glare or heat shall be performed within a
completely enclosed building in such a manner as not to create a public
nuisance or hazard along lot lines. Exposed sources of light shall be shielded
so as not to create a public nuisance or hazard or create a nuisance along lot
lines.
4-8-8-8: REVIEW:
Not less than every two (2) years, appropriate department(s) of the village
shall review these performance standards, with special reference to state and
federal standards which may be applicable. Where performance standards of this
title are in conflict with prevailing state and federal standards, the more
stringent requirements shall be automatically applicable. However, nothing in
this title shall be construed so as to prevent the village from instituting,
through proper amendment of this title, higher standards.
4-8-9: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
No building shall exceed four (4) stories nor shall it exceed fifty feet (50')
in height, except as provided in section
4-2-8 of this title.
4-8-10: ADULT USES:
   A.   Findings: The president and board of trustees make the following
findings:
      1.   That it is uncontested that the village may regulate, through its
zoning power, the location of sexually explicit businesses;
      2.   That zoning, when used to preserve the character of the residential
and commercial areas of the village, is perhaps the most essential function
performed by the village;
      3.   That M-1 restricted manufacturing districts, wherein adult uses
would be permitted uses under these regulations, comprise 20.77 percent of the
total land area of the village zoned for commercial or business uses;
      4.   That the village is predominately a single-family residential
community with 87.53 percent of the total land area of the village zoned and
used for residential, school, park, library and governmental purposes;
      5.   That the Zoning and Planning Commission held a public hearing,
reviewed the experiences of other municipalities, counties and units of local
government relative to adult uses, and received reports from the office of
Community Development and Growth Management summarizing land uses and pertinent
statistical data for the village as of December 31, 1994, together with a
report from the village attorney advising as to developments in other
municipalities in regulating adult uses;
      6.   That the proposed regulation of adult uses serves a substantial
governmental interest, while allowing for reasonable alternative avenues of
communication;
      7.   That the supreme court of the state of Illinois has judicially
confirmed that the regulation of adult uses serves a valid governmental
interest;
      8.   That the proposed regulations are not aimed at the content of adult
entertainment, but at the secondary effects associated with it including, but
not limited to:
         a.   An increase in crime rates, particularly those that are sex
related;
         b.   A negative impact on the real estate market where adult
entertainment is offered; and
         c.   Urban blight as a result of the decrease in property values.
In attempting to curb these secondary effects, the regulations serve the
village's substantial interest in the health, safety and welfare of the people
of the village;
      9.   That the detailed findings summarized in the U.S. supreme court
opinion City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41, 106 S.Ct. 925
(1986), the Illinois supreme court opinion in the County of Cook v. Renaissance
Arcade and Bookstore, 122 Ill.2d 123 (1988), and the United States district
court, eastern division of Michigan opinion in S & G News, Inc. v. City of
Southgate, 638 F.Supp. 1060 (E.D. Mich. 1986) aff'd. 819 F.2d 1142 (6th Cir.
1987), were before the Zoning and Planning Commission when it recommended the
adoption of these regulations; and
      10.   That the state of Illinois has adopted 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-5-1.5, which provides for separation of adult entertainment
facilities located within municipalities from any school, daycare center,
cemetery, public park, forest preserve, public housing, and place of religious
worship.
   B.   Purpose Of Regulations: These regulations are aimed at the secondary
effects of adult uses, and not at the content of the activities performed at
such uses. In addition, these regulations are based on the village's
substantial interest in preventing crime, protecting retail trade, maintaining
property values, and generally to protect and preserve the quality of the
village's neighborhoods, commercial districts, and the quality of urban life.
Furthermore, it is not the purpose of these regulations to deny anyone a
reasonable opportunity to open and operate adult uses within the village. The
predominate purpose of these regulations is the amelioration of socially
adverse secondary effects of adult uses. Finally, the supreme court of the
state of Illinois has judicially confirmed that the purpose of these
regulations as hereinafter provided serves a valid governmental interest.
   C.   Definitions:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having, as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for rent, sale
or for viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin operated
means, and periodicals, which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities, or specified anatomical areas; or an establishment with a
substantial or significant segment or section devoted to the sale or display of
such materials; or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a
purveyor of such materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays,
actual sales, presence of video preview or coin operated booths, exclusion of
minors from the establishment's premises or any other factors showing the
establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such materials.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which:
      1.   Features topless dancers, strippers, or male or female
impersonators; or
      2.   Not infrequently features entertainers who display specified
anatomical areas; or
      3.   Features entertainers who by reason of their appearance or conduct
perform in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient
interest of the patron; or
      4.   Features entertainers who engage in or are engaged in explicit
simulation of specified sexual activities.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY:
      1.   A striptease club or pornographic movie theater whose business is
the commercial sale, dissemination, or distribution of sexually explicit
material, shows, or other exhibitions; or
      2.   An adult bookstore or adult video store in which twenty five percent
(25%) or more of its stock in trade, books, magazines, and films for sale,
exhibition, or viewing on premises are sexually explicit material.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A building or area used for presenting
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE: Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
entertainment cabarets, and/or other similar uses.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: For the purpose of this section, "specified
anatomical areas" means:
      1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and/or
      2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: For the purpose of this section, "specified
sexual activities" means:
      1.   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      2.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and/or
      3.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts.
   D.   Location: Adult uses are permitted uses in the M-1 restricted
manufacturing district.
   E.   Registration: The owner of any building or premises, said owner's agent
for the purposes of managing, controlling or collecting rents, or any other
person managing or controlling any building or premises used in whole or in
part for an adult use, shall register the following information with the
village clerk:
      1.   The address of the premises;
      2.   The name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s) of the premises and the
beneficial owner(s) if the property is in a land trust;
      3.   The name of the business or establishment;
      4.   The name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s), beneficial owner(s)
and/or the major stockholder(s) of the business or establishment;
      5.   The date of the initiation of the adult use;
      6.   The nature of the adult use;
      7.   If the premises or building is leased, a copy of said lease must be
attached to the registration form.
   F.   Exterior Display: No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that
permits the observation of any material depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas from any public way
or from any property not registered as an adult use. This provision shall apply
to any display, decoration, sign, show window or other opening.
   G.   Buffer Requirements: At any location at which an adult use directly
abuts a residential zoning district or residential use, or is separated from a
residential zoning district or residential use by only a right of way, a buffer
shall be constructed on the property on which the adult use is located. Said
buffer shall consist of either:
      1.   A solid masonry wall, of not less than five feet (5') in height,
with brick or other masonry features which match the building on the property;
or
      2.   A solid, board on board, privacy fence of not less than five feet
(5') in height.
   H.   Distance Requirements; Adult Entertainment Facility: It is prohibited
to locate an adult entertainment facility within one thousand feet (1,000') of
the property boundaries of any school, daycare center, cemetery, public park,
forest preserve, public housing, and place of religious worship. (Ords. 75-10-
55, 77-8-7, 77-29-48, 81-17-29, 81-36-77, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 93-24-107, 95-23-
100, 96-3-11, 96-10-46, 00-5-12, 01-19-68, 01-19-69, 08-06-22, 08-21-66, 19-16-
66)
CHAPTER 9
PUBLIC LANDS DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. NONMUNICIPAL PUBLIC LANDS DISTRICT
SECTION:
4-9A-1: Purpose
4-9A-2: Special Use Regulations
4-9A-3: Uses Permitted
4-9A-4: Rezoning
4-9A-1: PURPOSE:
The nonmunicipal public lands district provisions are designed to designate
ownership of land and to provide, upon return to private ownership, a
reasonable means of rezoning these areas to uses compatible with surrounding
development.
4-9A-2: SPECIAL USE REGULATIONS:
All buildings, structures and uses in the nonmunicipal public lands district
shall comply with all the requirements for a special use, as provided in
chapter 14 of this title.
4-9A-3: USES PERMITTED:
A building, lot, tract or premises shall be used only for the following:
Electronic billboards, subject to title 6, chapter 8 of this code.
Federal, state, county, township, school or park district building relating to
the public welfare of the area.
Federal, state, county, township, school or park district lands, either vacant
or occupied, relating to the public welfare of the area.
Satellite dish antennas subject to section
4-2-12 of this title (permit required, $25.00).
4-9A-4: REZONING:
Any building or area within this classification shall not be used for any other
purposes, and when the use of the area is discontinued, it shall remain in the
nonmunicipal public lands district zoning category until a proper petition is
filed with the Zoning and Planning Commission for rezoning, in accordance with
section
2-1-7-1 of this code. Except with respect to the use designations identified
above, nonmunicipal public lands shall be considered to be R-1 single-family
for the purposes of applying the other regulations in this title. (Ords. 09-16-
34, 19-16-66)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL PUBLIC LANDS DISTRICT
SECTION:
4-9B-1: Purpose
4-9B-2: Property Acquired By Village
4-9B-3: Uses Permitted
4-9B-4: Rezoning
4-9B-1: PURPOSE:
The municipal public lands district provisions are designed to designate
ownership of municipal land and to provide, upon return to private ownership, a
reasonable means of rezoning these areas to uses compatible with surrounding
development.
4-9B-2: PROPERTY ACQUIRED BY VILLAGE:
In light of the provisions of section
4-9B-1 of this article, and pursuant to the village's home rule powers as
provided by article VII, section 6 of the 1970 Illinois constitution, when the
village acquires fee simple title to a parcel of real property, the zoning
classification for said parcel shall automatically be established as municipal
public lands district, and said parcel shall be subject thereafter to the
provisions of this article.
4-9B-3: USES PERMITTED:
A building, lot, tract or premises shall be used only for the following:
A municipal building relating to the public welfare of the area.
Municipal lands, either vacant or occupied, relating to the public welfare of
the area.
Public utility and service uses, as follows:
Electric substations.
Fire stations.
Gas regulator stations.
Police stations.
Telephone exchanges, telephone transmission equipment buildings and microwave
relay towers.
Utility service substations; electric, gas, telephone and water.
Waterworks, reservoirs, pumping stations and filtration plants.
Satellite dish antennas subject to section
4-2-12 of this title (permit required, $25.00).
4-9B-4: REZONING:
Any building or area within this classification shall not be used for any other
purposes, and when the use of the area is discontinued, it shall remain in the
municipal public lands district zoning category until a proper petition is
filed with the Zoning and Planning Commission for rezoning, in accordance with
section
2-1-8-1 of this code. Except with respect to the use designations identified
above, municipal public lands shall be considered to be R-1 single-family for
the purposes of applying the other regulations in this title. (Ords. 09-16-34,
19-16-66)
CHAPTER 10
PK PARKING DISTRICT
SECTION:
4-10-1: Purpose
4-10-2: Uses Permitted
4-10-3: Procedure For Developer
4-10-4: Design And Construction Standards
4-10-5: Performance Standards
4-10-6: Restrictions
4-10-1: PURPOSE:
The PK Parking District is designed to designate areas which may be used only
for parking as distinguished from areas where parking is a part of the use of
the parcel on which is located a structure.
4-10-2: USES PERMITTED:
Land designated PK Parking may be used only for the temporary parking of
automobiles brought to the site as conveyances for persons using establishments
in C-1, C-2 and O areas.
4-10-3: PROCEDURE FOR DEVELOPER:
All requests for PK Parking zoning shall comply with procedures as set forth in
Section
2-1-8 of this Code.
4-10-4: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Generally: Areas designated PK Parking must conform to construction
standards as required in Section
4-13-3-2 of this Title; except that all parking spaces shall be open to the sky
unless otherwise approved by the Zoning and Planning Commission and the Board
of Trustees.
   B.   Setbacks, Screening And Landscaping: All PK Parking requests shall be
accompanied by a dimensioned and detailed site plan which shall indicate all
setbacks, screening and landscaping as required herein 1 . The site plan shall
also show all alleys and streets surrounding the site as well as the property,
with all existing or proposed buildings, which the PK Parking lot is intended
to serve.
      1.   Setbacks: There shall be a ten foot (10') setback from the property
line facing any street to the finished surface of the parking area.
      2.   Screening:
         a.   There shall be a masonry wall of not less than five feet (5') nor
more than six feet (6') in height, constructed of the same face brick material
used on the principal building being served by the PK Parking lot where the PK
Parking lot abuts any residence district. Use of masonry materials other than
those used for the principal building will be permitted if approved by the
Zoning and Planning Commission and the Board of Trustees.
         b.   Where a public alley exists between the parking area and a
residence or residence district, a wall or fence and densely compact hedge, as
determined by the Zoning and Planning Commission, of not less than five feet
(5') nor more than six feet (6') in height, is required.
         c.   Where the public alley is used for ingress and/or egress to the
parking area, the screening shall be installed under the direction of the
Director of Office of Community Development and Growth Management , consistent
with safe traffic ingress/egress practices.
         d.   A variation from the height limitations, set forth in subsections
B2a and B2b of this Section, may be applied for and granted; provided that a
finding is made as to each of the following conditions:
            (1)   That the plight of the petitioner for the variation is caused
by unique circumstances; and
            (2)   That the variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the immediate surrounding area; and
            (3)   That a wall or fence and densely planted compact hedge, in
full compliance with the maximum or minimum height limitations of either
subsection B2a or B2b of this Section (whichever is applicable), would not
adequately serve the same purposes as a wall or fence and densely planted
compact hedge of increased or decreased height; and
            (4)   That strict adherence to the height limitation requirements
of either subsection B2a or B2b of this Section would cause particular hardship
upon the petitioner for the variation.
All requests for the aforementioned variation shall be heard by the Zoning and
Planning Commission as a special petition.
      3.   Landscaping: There shall be a five foot (5') wide landscaped buffer
strip wherever the parking lot abuts a residence district. The required wall or
fence/hedge, as provided above, shall be part of the landscaped area.
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  4-13-3 of this Title.
4-10-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Areas zoned PK Parking are subject to the applicable performance standards
listed in Section
4-8-8 of this Title.
4-10-6: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Commercial Or Office Use: No area may be designated PK Parking to serve
a commercial or office use unless the land is or will be owned by the owner of
the commercial or office use. The Village shall require such covenants as are
necessary to ensure that the land designated PK to serve a specific use will
remain available for that and subsequent uses indefinitely.
   B.   Use As A Building Prohibited: Land designated PK Parking cannot be used
for a building or structure of any kind, but may be counted toward the parking
requirement for the C-1, C-2 or O use which it serves. (Ords. 75-10-55, 77-29-
48, 81-36-77, 87-17-70, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
CHAPTER 11
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
ARTICLE A. PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
4-11A-1: Purpose
4-11A-2: Definitions
4-11A-3: Procedure for Application for Development
4-11A-4: Use Regulations
4-11A-5: Site and Structure Requirements
4-11A-6: Public Utilities
4-11A-7: Performance Standards
4-11A-8: Parking Requirements
4-11A-1: PURPOSE:
Planned developments are of such substantially different character from other
zoning categories that specific and additional standards and exceptions are
hereby established to govern the recommendations of the Zoning and Planning
Commission and the action of the Board of Trustees.
For the purpose of zoning designation, a planned development area may be zoned
as PD-R-1, R-2, or R-3 or any combination thereof. Such designation is for the
purpose of enhancing the appearance of neighborhoods, preserving open space,
avoiding and controlling congestion of building development, stabilizing
property values, encouraging variation in types of structures and land use,
encouraging the provision of amenities for residents and promoting orderly
development so as not to create a detrimental influence on the surrounding
neighborhood.
The planned development concept is not intended to increase density of use but
to stress the use of open space and originality in land use, building design
and location.
It is specifically not intended that land zoned for planned development come
under the rules and regulations applicable to R-1, R-2, and R-3 zoning
categories except as herein provided.
4-11A-2: DEFINITIONS:
COMMON AREAS: See "Common Space".
COMMON SPACE: All areas outside of the individual dwelling unit perimeters.
Common areas shall include hallways, stairwells, laundry rooms, any interior
recreational spaces, if any, and other areas within the building, which are
common to all of the occupants thereof. Common areas shall also include all
driveways, aisles, parking spaces, green space, outdoor recreational
facilities, if any, and any other similar areas. Common space shall not be
encumbered by fences, walls or assigns which would prohibit use by the
occupants of the planned unit development.
COMPLETE BUILDING PLANS:
   A.   Exterior Plan Views: Elevation sketches of all four (4) sides of a
proposed building, indicating the types of materials, building height and color
combinations.
   B.   Interior Plan Views: Preliminary plans showing the size and square foot
area of each unit, the room design within each unit, the halls and stairwells,
indicating fire doors where necessary. All floors of the building can be
typical, however, any variations between floor designs are to be shown
separately.
GREEN SPACE: An area or areas of reasonably contiguous open space available to
residents of a planned development for common use. Green space areas shall be
landscaped with grass, trees, bushes, etc., pursuant to a landscaping plan
approved by the Zoning and Planning Commission and Board of Trustees. Green
space must be wholly within the building lines and shall not include required
setbacks. Green space shall not include hard-surface driveways, aisles, parking
spaces, sidewalks or refuse container areas within the building lines. Up to
forty percent (40%) of the green space requirement may be met by recreational
areas approved by the Village on the roofs of covered parking areas. Such
decked parking green space shall be improved with recreational facilities for
the occupants of the building as approved by the Zoning and Planning Commission
and Board of Trustees.
OPEN SPACE: That portion of the total lot area which is common space and which
is open and unobstructed by any building or portion thereof from the ground
upward. Open areas above or below grade may be used to satisfy a portion of
this requirement if the surface of such open area is visible from grade level.
SITE PLAN: A plan placing the building on the land, showing paved roadways and
driveways, sidewalks, setback lines, required green space, parking areas,
screening, fences and general landscaping.
4-11A-3: PROCEDURE FOR APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Compliance Required: All planned unit developments shall comply with
the regulations of the Village and the requirements of the Zoning and Building
Codes 1 .
   B.   Preliminary Hearing: All planned unit developments shall be initiated
by a preliminary hearing before the Zoning and Planning Commission. The purpose
of the preliminary meeting is informative. No decision or opinion will be
rendered by the Zoning and Planning Commission at such hearing. Proposed type
of construction must be submitted to the Director of Office of Community
Development and Growth Management prior to the hearing of the Zoning and
Planning Commission.
   C.   Preliminary Plans: All preliminary plans, elevations and layouts shall
be fully dimensioned and all preliminary plans submitted must include:
      1.   Building plans, with all exterior walls to be of suitable fire-rated
material.
      2.   Site plans.
      3.   Interior floor plans.
      4.   Proposed agreements for maintenance of common areas.
      5.   Proposed location of future fences, walls or other barriers.
      6.   Proposed location of any future garages or other accessory
buildings.
The Zoning and Planning Commission may, at its option, give approval to
location and type of improvements planned for addition at a later date, and
such information shall be entered on the plans. Alterations in plans for such
future improvements cannot be made without approval of the Zoning and Planning
Commission and the board of trustees.
The Zoning and Planning Commission may, at its option, require the approved
plan to show the location of proposed later improvements; such future
improvements may not be changed without the approval of the said commission and
the board of trustees. However, improvements designated "proposed" or "future"
are not mandatory unless so designated and required by the Zoning and Planning
Commission as part of the approval of the original plans.
   D.   Action By Zoning and Planning Commission: Upon review and approval of
the preliminary and final plans as are required, the Zoning and Planning
Commission will make its recommendation to the president and board of trustees
for final approval.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 6 of this Code for Building Regulations.
4-11A-4: USE REGULATIONS:
All buildings or premises in planned R-1 and R-3 areas shall be used only for
the following purposes:
   A.   Single-, two-, and multi-family dwellings.
   B.   Parks, playgrounds and community buildings owned or operated for the
use of the residents of the planned area and solely for recreational purposes.
   C.   Parking as defined in section
4-11A-8 of this article.
   D.   Signs limited to advertising premises for sale or for rent.
   E.   Garages and/or accessory buildings as incorporated in the original plan
or proposed future plan as approved.
   F.   Provisions shall be made for enclosed garbage stalls to be constructed
of the same materials as the building, of a size to accommodate a "leach" type
or similar sized container, of sufficient number and size to accommodate the
proposed number of units in the development but in no case shall there be less
than one container per each twelve (12) units.
   G.   No truck in excess of one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity may be
parked, except momentarily, on private property in this district.
   H.   In planned R-1 districts, the developer may elect to use subdivision
regulations and develop the resulting lots under chapter 5, article A, "R-
1 Single-Family Residence District", of this title, in lieu of the planned R-
1 regulations, with the approval of the Zoning and Planning Commission.
   I.   In planned R-1, R-2 and R-3 areas, small community residences,
provided:
      1.   They are not located within one thousand two hundred feet (1,200')
of another community residence;
      2.   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received (see section
4-3-5 of this title); and
      3.   Prior to occupancy, an administrative occupancy permit is applied
for and received (see section
4-3-9 of this title).
   J.   In planned R-3 areas, large community residences, provided:
      1.   They are not located within one thousand two hundred feet (1,200')
of another community residence;
      2.   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received (see section
4-3-5 of this title); and
      3.   Prior to occupancy, an administrative occupancy permit is applied
for and received (see section
4-3-9 of this title).
   K.   Satellite dish antennas subject to section
4-2-12 of this title (permit required, $25.00).
4-11A-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height:
      1.   Planned R-1: Single-family dwellings and planned R-2 two- family
dwellings shall not exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories, nor shall they
exceed thirty five feet (35') in height, except as provided in section
4-2-8 of this title.
      2.   Planned R-3: Multi-family dwellings shall not exceed three (3)
stories, nor shall they exceed forty feet (40') in height, except as provided
in section
4-2-8 of this title.
   B.   Area Regulations:
      1.   No building shall be constructed within twenty five feet (25') of
the front lot line on any street nor shall the rear of any building face on a
dedicated street.
      2.   Individual lot sizes, if any, shall be approved by the Zoning and
Planning Commission and the president and board of trustees when the site plan
is submitted.
      3.   In planned R-1, where all lands are to be considered common lands,
sufficient land in the rear of each building must remain in private ownership,
said areas to be not less than the width of the building by twenty feet (20')
in depth.
      4.   A minimum of ten feet (10') shall be required between all buildings
when detached.
      5.   On interior side lot lines, there shall be a minimum setback of five
feet (5').
      6.   On rear lot lines, there shall be a minimum setback of ten feet
(10').
   C.   Lot Coverage: The following is the maximum number of units permitted,
providing all requirements regarding parking, setbacks and open spaces are
first met:
      1.   Maximum Density:
 
                              Units per  Open Space     Green Space
                              Gross Acre per Gross      per Gross
                                         Acre           Acre   
Planned R-1                   4          8,000 sq. ft.  4,000 sq. ft.
Planned R-2                   6          12,000 sq. ft. 6,000 sq. ft.
Planned R-2 with recreational 8          10,000 sq. ft. 5,000 sq. ft.
facilities
 
      2.   Less Than One Acre: For any parcel of land less than one acre, units
per acres and common open space per acre shall be computed as a percentage
based upon the size of the parcel as a percentage of an acre.
      3.   Planned R-3:
         a.   There shall be a minimum of one thousand three hundred (1,300)
square feet of land per unit after dedication of streets.
         b.   There shall be a minimum of eight hundred (800) square feet of
open space per unit, of which a minimum of four hundred (400) square feet shall
be green space. Buildings shall be so cited as to allow combining and arranging
of green space to provide maximum contiguous green space area.
Recreational facilities are defined as structures on the property to which
residents thereof have common access for recreation, including swimming pools,
club houses, putting greens, but not including tot play lots or ordinary green
space.
   D.   Minimum Floor Area:
      1.   Planned R-1 shall be in accordance with Section
6-1C-2 of this Code.
      2.   Planned R-2 and R-3 shall be in accordance with Articles 5B and 5C
of this Title.
4-11A-6: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
All public utilities shall be under ground.
4-11A-7: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Buildings, premises and uses permitted are subject to the applicable
performance standards of Section
4-8-8 of this Title.
4-11A-8: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Design:
      1.   Size:
         a.   Off-street outside parking space shall be at least nine feet (9')
in width and a minimum of twenty feet (20') in length and shall have a vertical
clearance of seven feet (7').
         b.   Off-street inside parking space shall have a minimum interior
dimension of nine feet (9') in width, a minimum of twenty feet (20') in length
and shall have a vertical clearance of at least seven feet (7').
      2.   Plan of Parking Facilities: Shall be in accordance with subsection
4-13-3-2A of this Title.
      3.   Number of Parking Spaces: Two (2) parking spaces shall be provided
for each dwelling unit.
   B.   Location: Parking spaces cannot be included in any required setbacks
and shall comply with subsection
4-13-3-2H1 of this Title.
   C.   Access: Shall be in accordance with subsection
4-13-3-2L of this Title.
   D.   Loading: Shall be in accordance with subsection
4-13-2A of this Title.
   E.   Surfacing: All open-to-the-sky off-street parking areas shall be
improved with asphalt surface, consisting of nine inches (9") of compacted
stone and screenings and two inches (2") of asphalt, or six inches (6") of
bituminous aggregate mixture (BAM) plus one and one-half inches (11/2") of
asphalt, or such standards as may be promulgated, from time to time, by the
Village.  (Ords. 75-10-55, 77-8-7, 81-12-19, 81-17-29, 81-36-77, 87-17-70, 90-
16-68, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 93-24-107, 19-16-66)
ARTICLE B. PLANNED COMMERCIAL AND PLANNED OFFICE DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
4-11B-1: Purpose
4-11B-2: Goals
4-11B-3: Scope of Regulations
4-11B-4: Definitions
4-11B-5: General Provisions
4-11B-6: Procedures for Application for Development
4-11B-7: Use Regulations
4-11B-8: Site and Structure Requirements
4-11B-9: Parking Requirements
4-11B-10: Public Utilities
4-11B-11: Garbage and Refuse
4-11B-12: Performance Standards
4-11B-13: Village Policy on Rezoning
4-11B-1: PURPOSE:
The planned commercial and planned office concept as delineated herein is
intended to provide rules, regulations, requirements and procedures which offer
alternative methods for development of C-1, C-2 and O areas as set forth in
this Title and insure compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood and with
the master plan of the village.
4-11B-2: GOALS:
The goals of this Article are:
   A.   To create, enhance and/or conserve the value of the land within the
Village;
   B.   To provide for a healthy, reasonably stable, and economically sound
business community;
   C.   To create convenient and attractive areas for shopping;
   D.   To provide for reasonable car parking areas as well as improve traffic
flow;
   E.   To create cooperation between public and private sectors; and
   F.   In general to encourage quality development in the Village.
4-11B-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
Except as provided in this Article or by specific reference to the provisions
of this Title, it is specifically intended that all planned commercial and
planned office be regulated by this Article and shall not come under the rules
and regulations as provided for in this Title.
4-11B-4: DEFINITIONS:
BELOW GRADE OCCUPANCY: Any finished floor of any level used for any purpose
which is below the established finished grade. Office and commercial uses may
be placed below grade providing a minimum ceiling height of ten feet (10') is
maintained and further, that all other requirements of the Building Code, Fire
Prevention Code and all other applicable standards of the Village are met.
COMPLETE PRELIMINARY BUILDING PLANS: Elevation renderings of all sides of the
proposed building(s) including the type of materials, building height and
design and signs. Preliminary building plans shall include interior planned
views and a site plan. All plans are to be fully dimensioned. These are not
working plans but completely developed preliminary plans.
COVENANT AGREEMENT: Recorded document to the Village, acceptable to the Village
Attorney, providing for covenants to run with the land providing for common
usage of open space between two (2) or more buildings, easements and cross
easements, common driveways and/or parking area agreements, maintenance
agreements for common open space, and such other provisions as may be necessary
to maintain the intent and purpose of this Article.
EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room used for
living, dining and sleeping purposes with a kitchen area, either included
within the room or as a separate room, and with a three-fixture bathroom
including a bathtub/shower combination.
FINAL PLANS: Final working drawings incorporating all provisions as approved
during preliminary discussion and complying with all ordinance requirements of
the Village.
FLOOR AREA, FOR DETERMINING FLOOR AREA RATIO: The floor area of a building is
the sum of the gross horizontal area of all floors of the building, both above
and below grade, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from
the center line of walls separating two (2) buildings. The floor area of a
building shall include basements, elevator shafts, stairwells, mechanical
equipment rooms, spaces and chases (except equipment located on the roof),
attic space having headroom of seven feet (7') or more, interior balconies and
mezzanines, enclosed porches, lobbies and corridors, and all other floor areas
devoted to accessory uses. However, any space devoted to off-street parking or
loading for commercial or office use shall not be included in floor area.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): Total floor area as defined herein divided by the total
lot area after all street dedications have been made, equals floor area ratio.
To determine the maximum floor area allowed to be built on any lot or parcel of
land regulated by this Article, multiply the total lot area, after all street
dedications have been made, by the floor area ratio as set forth in
4-11B-8 of this Article.
INTERIOR PLANNED VIEWS: Views setting forth the size and square foot area of
all interior spaces, halls, stairways, equipment and mechanical spaces,
location of elevator(s), indicating firewalls and fire doors where necessary.
All floors of the building can be typical; however, any variations between
floor designs are to be shown separately. All plans are to be fully
dimensioned.
NET COMMERCIAL AND/OR OFFICE SPACE: The net floor area of a commercial or
office building or structure, exclusive of hallways, stairways, stairwells,
elevator shafts, maintenance and mechanical spaces, lavatories, fireproof
vaults, closets or monumental or other type lobbies used solely for ingress and
egress through the commercial or office building structure.
PRIMARY OR GROUND FLOOR: For the purpose of establishing minimum required
parking percentages or floor as regulated by
4-11B-9 herein, the primary or ground floor shall be the first floor above
grade level occupied or used as offices or commercial; except, that which
automobile parking is placed under the building on the grade or ground level,
and not a basement, then the first floor above the parking level used or
occupied by offices and/or commercial shall be counted as the primary floor.
If parking is placed under the building at grade or ground level for less than
thirty five percent (35%) of the entire floor area, then the remaining floor
area of that level used for office and/or commercial shall be counted at eighty
percent (80%) of required parking and the first floor above the combination
parking, office and/or commercial level shall be counted as the primary floor
at one hundred percent (100%) of parking requirements.
If parking is placed under the building at grade or ground level for thirty
five percent (35%) or more of the entire floor area, then the remaining floor
area shall be counted at sixty percent (60%) of the required parking and the
first floor above the combination parking, office and/or commercial level shall
be counted as the primary floor at one hundred percent (100%) of parking
requirement.
In the case of an unusual design, the Zoning and Planning Commission shall
establish which level shall constitute the primary floor for purposes of
computing the one hundred percent (100%) parking requirement.
SITE PLAN: A plan placing the building(s) on the land, showing grades, all
signs and their placement, general and parking area lighting systems, public
walks, parkways layout showing the driveways, aisles and parking areas, and the
general placement of trees, shrubs, fountains and other landscaping details.
The site plan shall be fully dimensioned.
4-11B-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
There are no areas of the Village specifically zoned for planned commercial or
planned office as herein defined. Planned commercial and planned office shall
be permitted only upon approval of the Zoning and Planning Commission and the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village, upon compliance with all
requirements of this Article and other applicable ordinances of the Village. If
the petitioner's concept is accepted by the Zoning and Planning Commission and
the Village President and Board of Trustees, a public hearing shall not be
required unless the proposed site includes property which is not already zoned
C-1, C-2 and/or O, then a public hearing shall be required as per Section
2-1-7-1 of this Code.
4-11B-6: PROCEDURES FOR APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Preliminary Hearing: All buildings, developments or proposals covered
by this Article shall be initiated by a preliminary hearing before the Zoning
and Planning Commission prior to the submission of preliminary plans. The
purpose of the preliminary meeting is informative.
   B.   Submittal of Plans: Thereafter, preliminary sketches and plans
embodying the results of the preliminary meeting shall be submitted to the
Zoning and Planning Commission for consideration. All preliminary plans so
submitted at said meeting must include:
      1.   Complete preliminary building plans, with all exterior walls to be
of face brick, stone, poured or precast concrete panels, or of other suitable
contemporary materials as approved by the Commission. All exterior wall
materials shall meet the fire-resistant requirements of the Building Code.
      2.   Interior planned views.
      3.   Site plan.
      4.   Proposed covenant agreement, if required.
      5.   Grades of all proposed buildings and finished grades of the project,
of all existing buildings and finished grades abutting the project and/or of
property likely to be affected by the proposed project. Finished grades shall
be approved by the Department of Community Development and Growth Management of
the Village to insure against flooding, undercutting of grades, or other
adverse effects of the finished grades of the project on existing abutting
property.
   C.   Preliminary Approval: Preliminary plans must be approved by the Zoning
and Planning Commission and then submitted to the President and Board of
Trustees for approval.
   D.   Preparation of Final Plans: Upon approval of preliminary plans by the
President and Board of Trustees, the applicant shall, in the preparation of
final plans, consult with the Building Department which shall obtain approval
of said final plans for the Department of Community Development and Growth
Management, Fire Department and Public Works Department.
   E.   Final Approval: Upon review and the approval of final plans and
completion of any required public hearings as provided in Title 2, Chapter 1 of
this Code, the Zoning and Planning Commission shall make its recommendations to
the President and Board of Trustees within sixty (60) days. The President and
Board of Trustees shall take final action on the recommendation of the Zoning
and Planning Commission within thirty (30) days thereafter.
   F.   Expiration of Approval: Unless a building permit is taken out within
one year after the final approval by the President and Board of Trustees, the
approval shall expire.
4-11B-7: USE REGULATIONS:
All buildings or premises approved for construction as a planned commercial or
planned office development shall be used only for the following purposes and
subject to the performance standards of Section
4-8-8 of this Title:
   A.   Commercial Retail and Service Uses:
      Bakeries where all goods are sold on the premises at retail.
      Banks, currency exchanges, savings and loan associations and finance
companies.
      Barbershops and beauty parlors.
      Book and stationery stores.
      Business, music, dance, beauty and commercial schools, excluding trade
schools.
      Cleaning establishments where work is done elsewhere (pickup stations
only). Clothing, apparel and accessory stores.
      Cocktail lounges. (See subsection
2-1-2G of this Code.) Petition required, twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      Convenience and specialty food shops.
      Department stores.
      Dress, millinery and tailor shops.
      Drugstores.
      Electrical appliance and/or repair shops.
      Employment agencies, both public and private.
      Florist shops.
      Furniture stores.
      General retail stores.
      Hardware stores.
      Health clubs.
      Jewelry stores.
      Laboratories.
      Laundries:
      Launderettes (self-service laundries).
      Hand laundries employing not more than five (5) persons.
      Locksmiths.
      Lodge rooms, halls and private clubs.
      Mail order houses.
      Meat markets where no stripping or slaughtering is involved.
      Messenger and telegraph service stations.
      Office equipment sales and service.
      Pet stores with no animal boarding for hire.
      Photographic studios.
      Printing shops.
      Radio, television sales, service and studios.
      Restaurants (banquet hall, carryout and full service).
      Shoe sales and/or repair shops.
      Sports equipment and apparel stores.
      Telephone booths and coin telephone booths (outdoors).
      Travel agencies.
   B.   Offices:
      Business offices, such as district offices, manufacturers'
representatives and similar business offices.
      Dental, medical offices and/or clinics.
      Government offices.
      Insurance, real estate, small loan companies and other similar offices.
      Lawyer, architect, engineer and other professional offices.
      Private or professional schools, except those of an industrial nature.
      Stenographic offices, computer offices and telephone answering services.
      Wholesale showrooms and sales offices.
   C.   Compatible Uses: The Zoning and Planning Commission shall entertain
projects which may contain other similar commercial retail and service uses and
office uses which will be compatible to uses listed in subsections A and B of
this section. The Zoning and Planning Commission shall also entertain uses
which, because of rapid technological changes and business innovations, do not
presently exist or are not currently being listed in normal zoning use groups.
   D.   Apartment Units: Apartment units may be built on any floor above the
first floor; providing, that if there are any apartment units on any floor, no
commercial or office space shall be located on the same floor nor on any floor
above.
Each and every apartment unit must contain the following net minimum square
footage area (area is totally within the inside perimeter of each apartment
unit):
 
Efficiency units    400 sq. ft.
1 bedroom apartment 650 sq. ft.
2 bedroom apartment 800 sq. ft.
3 bedroom apartment 1,000 sq. ft.
4 bedroom apartment 1,200 sq. ft.
 
   E.   Parks, Playgrounds And Public Buildings: Parks, playgrounds and
community buildings owned or operated for the use of residents of the
development and solely for recreational purposes.
   F.   Parking: There shall be a minimum of one car stall for each one hundred
fifty (150) square feet of net commercial space; one car stall for each two
hundred (200) square feet of net office space; and two (2) car stalls for each
apartment unit.
In computing parking where the requirement ends in a fraction of a car stall,
add a full car stall for any fraction of one-half (1/2) or more and disregard
an additional car stall if the fraction is less than one-half (1/2). A loading
space shall be provided as required in subsection
4-11B-9B of this article.
In computing parking requirements for private or professional schools, one
parking space shall be provided for each employee, plus one parking space for
every three (3) students in the premises at one time.
   G.   Signs: Signs are regulated by title 6, chapter 8 of this code except
that the planning and development commission shall approve the placement and
design of all signs to be erected within the development.
   H.   Accessory Buildings: Garages, carports and/or accessory buildings and
fences as incorporated in the original plans.
   I.   Restaurants: With approval by the Zoning and Planning Commission and
the president and board of trustees, penthouse type commercial restaurant(s)
may be permitted on the top floor, and additional parking spaces shall be
required based on the C-2 parking requirements of this title.
   J.   Satellite Dish Antennas: Satellite dish antennas subject to section
4-2-12 of this title (permit required, $25.00).
4-11B-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Generally: Notwithstanding any provisions herein to the contrary
regarding amount of land coverage and floor area, the requirements of setbacks,
open space, and parking shall be calculated prior to determining the maximum
height and floor area of the building.
   B.   Open Space: Where outside parking, normally open to the sky, is covered
with a structure and said structure is developed as an elevated landscaped mall
or recreational area, subject to approval by the Zoning and Planning Commission
the roof of said structure can be included as open space. However, the roofs of
the buildings enclosing the principal uses may not be so adapted to comply as
open space; parking structure roofs only can be considered for additional open
space.
   C.   Setbacks:
      1.   There shall be a setback of at least five feet (5') from all street
right of way lines for the purposes of sidewalks and landscaping. Where
adequate ingress, egress and circulatory sidewalks are provided, as approved by
the Zoning and Planning Commission, portions of the building may be built on
the lot line; provided, that a square foot area equal to the length of the
building so built on the lot line times five feet (5') of landscaped area shall
be included within the project, in addition to the required landscaped area so
provided in subsection D of this section.
      2.   There shall be a minimum setback of eight feet (8') from the rear
property line. The rear setback and any abutting alley in its entirety shall be
fully improved by the developer with paving and drainage, in accordance with
standards of the Village.
   D.   Landscaping: There shall be a landscaped area equal to five feet (5')
times the footage of the longest frontage of the property on any street which
shall be a minimum square foot area set aside for landscaping within the
project, in addition to subsection C1 of this section.
   E.   Building Requirements:
      1.   All buildings built under this article must be a minimum of three
(3) stories in height, a minimum of two (2) hour fire rated construction with
fire standpipes, and equipped with a minimum of one elevator for each one
hundred (100) people or fraction thereof above the first floor. The number of
people per floor shall be computed by using the formula for exit requirements
in the building code of the village.
      2.   Below grade under-building parking is permissible when complying
with section
4-1-6 of this title, basements, and shall not be counted as a story.
   F.   Minimum Land Requirements: The minimum amount of land necessary for
consideration under this article is twelve thousand five hundred (12,500)
square feet after all street dedications have been made.
      1.   Minimum Of Twelve Thousand Five Hundred Square Feet: Where there is
a minimum of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) square feet of land, not
more than twenty five percent (25%) of the area of the lot may be covered by
buildings, except additional area may be built upon for parking structures
only. The total floor area ratio shall not exceed three-quarters (3/4) of the
lot area.
      2.   Minimum Of Twenty Four Thousand Square Feet: When there is a minimum
of twenty four thousand (24,000) square feet of land, not more than twenty five
percent (25%) of the area of the lot may be covered by buildings, except
additional area may be built upon for parking structures only. The total floor
area ratio shall not exceed one and zero-tenths (1.0) of the lot area.
      3.   Minimum Of Fifty Five Thousand Square Feet: When there is a minimum
of fifty five thousand (55,000) square feet of land, not more than twenty five
percent (25%) of the area of the lot may be covered by buildings, except
additional area may be built upon for parking structures only. The total floor
area ratio shall not exceed one and one-quarter (1.25) of the lot area.
4-11B-9: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
A minimum amount of land as set forth in subsection
4-11B-8F of this article shall be required to qualify for consideration under
this article. No development shall be approved unless the minimum square foot
area of land exists under one ownership or control. If the land is owned under
multiple ownership such as condominium, cooperative, or some other common
ownership, covenants shall be provided to guarantee the use of all common
quasi-public areas, parking lots and all other areas of common use to each
occupant of the development.
Further, the land, building(s), parking areas, landscaped areas and other
features of the development shall not be physically separated in any way which
might negate the purpose of this article.
   A.   It shall be the policy of the village to develop dedicated side streets
within commercial and office zoning districts as additional motor vehicle
parking areas. Such minilots shall be developed in conjunction with projects
built under this article. The reduced percentages of required parking in
subsection C of this section are based on the development of minilots.
   B.   Minimum off street parking requirements are hereby established as
provided in subsection
4-11B-7F of this article. Further, an off street loading space of at least ten
feet by thirty feet (10' x 30') shall be provided for each building and shall
be adjacent to a receiving space within the building.
   C.   In the event a proposed development is to contain both office and
apartment uses, the parking requirements shall be governed by the office
parking requirements of subsection
4-13-4G of this title and such special conditions, if any, contained in any
special variation granted by the village at the request of the developer by
reason of the apartment uses.
   D.   Off street parking which is not adjacent to the principal building site
but is located within three hundred feet (300') of the site may be counted
toward the total required parking; provided, that the parking site is on the
same side of the principal street as the building and, further, that the
parking site is owned, not leased, by the development and shall not be sold,
conveyed or in any other way divested or encumbered, as a separate parcel so
long as the planned commercial or planned office building continues to exist.
Such provision shall be included in the covenants to be approved by the village
attorney.
4-11B-10: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
All on site public utilities shall be under ground.
4-11B-11: GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
Each building built under this article shall provide a refuse room within the
building, or an enclosed refuse stall outside the building for garbage and
rubbish. If provided for outside the building, it shall be constructed of the
same principal material as the building and shall be located at a site approved
by the Zoning and Planning Commission.
4-11B-12: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Buildings, premises and uses permitted in this article are subject to the
applicable standards of section
4-8-8 of this title.
4-11B-13: VILLAGE POLICY ON REZONING:
It shall be the policy of the village to rezone in the appropriate zoning
classification, residential property immediately contiguous to existing
commercial and/or office use as contemplated, provided:
   A.   That the commercial and/or office use requesting zoning in depth needs
the additional zoning in order to meet the parking, loading and yard
requirements of this article and providing the commercial and/or office use
owns or controls the property.
   B.   That the residential property proposed for rezoning extends no deeper
than two (2) residential lots, not to exceed a combined total of one hundred
feet (100'), from the lot line of the commercial use or from an alley
contiguous to the commercial and/or office use.
   C.   That the commercial and/or office use creates a landscaped area, fenced
or hedged, of not less than five feet (5') immediately adjacent to all
residential property or to an alley which serves residential property. Such
landscaped buffer zone shall not be used for parking, storage of containers, or
any use accessory to the commercial and/or office use but shall be maintained
as a green strip buffer for the protection of the residential property. (Ords.
75-10-55, 77-8-7, 81-17-29, 81-36-77, 83-16-37, 87-17-70, 92-11-45, 93-9-24,
93-24-107, 08-21-66, 19-16-66)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMING LOTS, BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
4-12-1: Purpose
4-12-2: Authority to Continue Nonconforming Buildings, Structures and Uses
4-12-2-1: Repairs and Alterations
4-12-2-2: Additions and Enlargements
4-12-2-3: Relocation of Building or Structure
4-12-2-4: Restoration of Damaged Building or Structure
4-12-2-5: Discontinuance of Nonconforming Use
4-12-2-6: Expansion of Nonconforming Use
4-12-2-7: Change of Nonconforming Use
4-12-2-8: Performance Standards
4-12-3: Validation of Nonconformities
4-12-4: Appeals
4-12-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming buildings, structures and uses and specify those circumstances
and conditions under which those nonconforming buildings, structures and uses
which adversely affect the maintenance, development or use and taxable value of
other property in the district in which they are located shall be permitted to
continue.
This Zoning Title establishes separate districts, each of which is an
appropriate area for the location of the uses which are permitted in that
district. It is necessary and consistent with the establishment of these
districts that those nonconforming buildings, structures and uses which
substantially and adversely affect the orderly development and taxable value of
other property in the district not be permitted to continue without
restriction.
4-12-2: AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
Any nonconforming building, structure or use which existed lawfully at the time
of the adoption of Ordinance No. 64-21-1, as adopted December 3, 1963, and
which remains nonconforming, and any such building, structure or use which
shall become nonconforming upon the adoption of this Zoning Title, or of any
subsequent amendments hereto, may be continued subject to the regulations which
follow. Any lawfully existing building or structure which does not conform to
the regulations of the district in which it is located may be continued subject
to the provisions of this Section.
4-12-2-1: REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS:
   A.   Building or Structure Designed or Intended for a Nonconforming Use:
Repairs and alterations may be made to a nonconforming building or structure;
provided, that no structural alterations which increase the bulk of the
building or structure shall be made in or to a building or structure, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in
the district in which it is located, except those required by law or except to
make the building or structure and use thereof conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is located. For the purpose of this Section, repairs
shall include the replacement of storage tanks where the safety of operation of
the installation requires such replacement, and other replacements of, or
substitutions for, machinery or equipment not involving structural alterations
to the building or structure except as hereinabove provided.
   B.   Building or Structure Designed or Intended for a Permitted Use:
Repairs, alterations and structural changes may be made to a nonconforming
building or structure, all or substantially all of which is designed or
intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is located, provided
said repairs, alterations or structural changes conform to the regulations of
the district in which said building or structure is located.
4-12-2-2: ADDITIONS AND ENLARGEMENTS:
A nonconforming building, structure or use shall not be added to or enlarged in
any manner unless such additions or enlargements thereto, as well as the
existing building, structure or use, are made to conform to all regulations of
the district in which it is located and all other applicable regulations of the
Village Code.
4-12-2-3: RELOCATION OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE:
No building or structure which does not conform to all the regulations of the
district in which it is located, except those required by law, shall be moved
in whole or in part to any other location unless every portion of such building
or structure which is moved and the use thereof are made to conform to all the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
4-12-2-4: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDING OR STRUCTURE:
   A.   Building or Structure Designed or Intended for a Nonconforming Use: A
building or structure, all or substantially all of which is designed or
intended for a use which is not permitted in the district in which it is
located, and which is destroyed by fire or other casualty or act of God to the
extent that the cost of restoration to the condition in which it was before the
occurrence shall exceed fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the restoration of
the entire building new, shall not be restored, except as required by law,
unless said building or structure and the use thereof shall conform to all the
regulations, including those of Chapter 13 of this Title, of the district in
which it is located. In the event such damage or destruction is less than fifty
percent (50%) of the cost of restoration of the entire building new, no repairs
or reconstruction shall be made unless such restoration is started within one
year from date of the partial destruction and is diligently prosecuted to
completion.
   B.   Building or Structure Designed or Intended for a Permitted Use: A
building or structure, all or substantially all of which is designed or
intended for a use which is permitted in the district in which it is located,
but which is otherwise not in conformance with all Village Code provisions
applicable thereto, and which is destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty
or act of God to the extent that the cost of restoration to the condition in
which it was before the occurrence shall exceed fifty percent (50%) of the cost
of restoration of the entire building new, shall not be restored, except as
required by law, unless said building or structure and the use thereof shall
conform to all of the regulations of the district in which it is located and
all applicable Village Codes. In the event such damage or destruction is less
than fifty percent (50%) of the cost of restoration of the building new, no
repairs or reconstruction shall be made unless such restoration is started
within one year from date of the partial destruction and is diligently
prosecuted to completion.
4-12-2-5: DISCONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   Nonconforming Use of Building or Structure:
      1.   Building or Structure Designed or Intended for a Nonconforming Use:
A building, structure or portion thereof, all or substantially all of which is
designed or intended for a use which is not permitted in the district in which
it is located, which is, or hereafter becomes, vacant and remains unoccupied or
is not used for a continuous period of ninety (90) days, shall not thereafter
be occupied or used except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of
the district in which it is located.
      2.   Building or Structure Designed or Intended for a Permitted Use: If a
nonconforming use of a building or structure, all or substantially all of which
building or structure is designed or intended for a use permitted in the
district in which it is located, is discontinued for a period of ninety (90)
days, it shall not be renewed, and any subsequent use of the building or
structure shall conform to the use regulations of the district in which the
premises are located.
   B.   Nonconforming Use of Land: The nonconforming use of land, not involving
a building or structure, or in connection with which any building or structure
thereon is incidental or accessory to the principal use of the land, if
discontinued for a period of ninety (90) days, shall not thereafter be renewed,
and any subsequent use of the land shall conform to the use regulations of the
district in which the land is located.
   C.   Seasonal Uses: Where the nonconforming use is seasonal (defined as a
business carried on for a portion of the year because of the nature of the
business), a business license shall be taken out at the annual renewal date.
The normal period of disuse shall not be considered a discontinuation of the
use.
4-12-2-6: EXPANSION OF NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   Nonconforming Use of Building or Structure:
      1.   Building or Structure Designed or Intended for a Nonconforming Use:
The nonconforming use of part of a building or structure, all or substantially
all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in the district in
which it is located, shall not be extended into any other portion of said
building or structure nor changed to any other nonconforming use.
      2.   Building Or Structure Designed Or Intended For A Permitted Use: The
nonconforming use of part of a building or structure, all or substantially all
of which building or structure is designed or intended for a use permitted in
the district in which it is located, shall not be expanded into any other
portion of such building or structure or changed to any other nonconforming
use.
   B.   Nonconforming Use Of Land: The nonconforming use of land, not involving
a building or structure thereon which is incidental or accessory to the
principal use of the land, shall not be expanded or extended beyond the area it
occupies.
4-12-2-7: CHANGE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   Nonconforming Use Of Building Or Structure:
      1.   Building Or Structure Designed Or Intended For A Nonconforming Use:
The nonconforming use of a building or structure, all or substantially all of
which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in the district in which
it is located, may not be changed to any other nonconforming use.
      2.   Building Or Structure Designed Or Intended For A Permitted Use: No
nonconforming use shall be changed to another nonconforming use when such
nonconforming use is located in a building or structure, all or substantially
all of which building or structure is designed or intended for a permitted use.
   B.   Nonconforming Use Of Land: The nonconforming use of land, not involving
a building or structure, or in connection with which any building or structure
thereon is incidental or accessory to the principal use of the land shall not
be changed to any other use except to a use permitted in the district in which
the land is located.
4-12-2-8: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
All buildings, premises and uses permitted in this Section are subject to the
applicable performance standards listed in Section
4-8-8 of this Title.
4-12-3: VALIDATION OF NONCONFORMITIES:
No nonconforming structure or building that was erected, converted, or
structurally altered in violation of the provisions of the ordinance which this
Zoning Title amends shall be validated by the adoption of this Title unless it
complies in all respects with the district regulations as may be amended.
4-12-4: APPEALS:
Any appeal from the provisions of this Chapter shall comply with the procedures
as set forth in Section
2-1-8 of this Code. (Ords. 75-10-55, 7-29-48, 90-16-72)
CHAPTER 13
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
4-13-1: Scope Of Regulations
4-13-2: General Requirements
4-13-3: Parking Regulations And Requirements
4-13-3-1: Joint Use
4-13-3-2: Design, Construction And Maintenance Requirements
4-13-3-3: Existing Parking
4-13-3-4: Control Of Off-Site Parking Facilities
4-13-4: Schedule Of Parking Requirements
4-13-5: Off-Street Loading Berths
4-13-5-1: General Requirements
4-13-5-2: Specific Requirements
4-13-6: Parking Variations; Automatic Reduction
4-13-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The off-street parking and loading provisions of this Title shall apply as
follows:
   A.   For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land
established after the effective date hereof, accessory parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations of the districts in
which such buildings or uses are located. However, when a building permit has
been issued prior to the effective date hereof, and provided that construction
is begun within six (6) months of such effective date and diligently prosecuted
to completion, parking and loading facilities in the amounts required for
issuance of said building permit may be provided in lieu of any different
amount required by this Title.
   B.   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises shall
be increased through addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating
capacity or other units, of measurement (including that of number of employees)
specified herein for required parking or loading facilities, parking and
loading facilities as required herein shall be provided for such increase in
intensity of use.
   C.   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall hereafter be
changed to a use not permitted in the zoning district, parking or loading
facilities shall be provided as required for such new use.
4-13-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
In any district, every building built, structurally altered, enlarged or
increased in capacity, and every land use initiated subsequent to the effective
date hereof shall provide off-street parking and loading facilities as provided
herein.
   A.   Designation Of Parking And Loading Areas: Loading or unloading areas,
along with their associated service driveways, shall not be considered as
parking areas.
   B.   Permissive Parking And Loading Facilities: Nothing in this Title shall
be deemed to prevent the voluntary establishment of off-street parking or
loading facilities to serve any existing use of land and buildings; provided,
that all regulations herein governing the location, design and operation of
such facilities are adhered to.
   C.   Damage Or Destruction: For any conforming or legally nonconforming
building or use which is in existence on the effective date hereof which
subsequently thereto is damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or
other cause, and which is reconstructed, reestablished or repaired, off-street
parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time of such
damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in operation. However, in
no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain parking or loading
facilities in excess of those required by this Title for equivalent new uses or
construction. This subsection shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 12
of this Title.
   D.   Submission of Plot Plan: Any application for a building permit, or for
a certificate of occupancy where no building permit is required, shall include
therewith a plot plan drawn to scale and fully dimensioned showing any parking
or loading facilities to be provided in compliance with this Title.
4-13-3: PARKING REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
4-13-3-1: JOINT USE:
No parking space or portion thereof shall serve as a required space for more
than one use unless otherwise authorized by the Appeals and Review Board or as
part of an approved development as granted by the Zoning and Planning
Commission and the Board of Trustees.
4-13-3-2: DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
All parking facilities required in every district except Single-Family
Residence use shall meet the following requirements and standards of design,
construction and maintenance as herein contained or as published, from time to
time, by the Quality Control Department:
   A.   Plan Required: A plan of parking facilities shall accompany each
application for a building permit. The final parking plans shall show existing
and proposed grades, storm sewer drainage systems, pavement type and
thicknesses, landscape and screening provisions, lighting and striping details.
The completion of the improvements for parking according to such plan shall be
a requisite for the issuance of the occupancy certificate. A conditional
certificate of occupancy may be granted for a legitimate reason providing that
a performance bond for the completion of the improvements is provided to the
Village or that a letter signed by an officer of a financial institution is
provided the Village which guarantees the funds to complete the parking
facilities and landscaping within a specified time.
   B.   Open and Enclosed Parking Spaces: Off-street parking spaces may be open
to the sky or enclosed in a building.
   C.   Surfacing: All open-to-the-sky, off-street parking areas shall be
improved with asphalt surface, consisting of nine inches (9") of compacted
stone and screenings and two inches (2") of asphalt, or six inches (6") of
bituminous aggregate mixture (BAM) plus one and one-half inches (11/2") of
asphalt, or such standards as may be promulgated, from time to time, by the
Village.
   D.   Drainage: All off-street parking areas in excess of four thousand
(4,000) square feet shall have a storm sewer system approved by the Department
of Quality Control. In any case, drainage plans shall be submitted to the
Village for approval.
   E.   Screening and Landscaping: A tentative site plan indicating the areas
to be developed for landscaping and screening shall be submitted before permit
shall be issued. All open automobile parking areas containing more than four
(4) parking spaces shall be effectively screened on all sides by a wall, fence
or densely planted compact hedge not less than five feet (5') nor more than
eight feet (8') in height. Where a public alley exists between the parking area
and the residence district or residence, and is used for ingress or egress to
the parking area, screening shall be used only where, in the opinion of the
Director of Office of Quality Control, it is safe to do so.
   F.   Lighting: All parking lot lighting shall conform to Village standards
and shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way as not to
interfere with residential area and use.
   G.   Repair and Service: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind
shall be permitted in association with any open accessory parking facilities.
   H.   Location:
      1.   Generally: All parking spaces required shall be located on the same
lot as the use served unless otherwise provided herein.
      2.   In Yards:
         a.   Off-street parking spaces, in residential districts only, open to
the sky may be located in any required rear yard, in only one of the required
side yards or in any required front yard or portion of a front yard; provided,
however, that where parking spaces are located in the required front yard or
portion of a front yard, and the driveway upon which said parking spaces are
located does not lead to a garage, a portion of the building which once was a
garage but has been converted to living space, a side yard parking space or a
rear yard parking space, a front yard parking permit shall be required. In
order to obtain said front yard parking permit, the following conditions must
be met:
            (1)   A driveway construction or replacement permit must be
obtained pursuant to Sections
9-1B-1 through
9-1B-4 of the 1985 Village Code in the event a driveway is being constructed or
replaced.
            (2)   The driveway and parking space(s) located in the required
front yard or portion of a front yard must be constructed of asphalt, concrete,
or cobblestone (permanent paving brick), if constructed or replaced after June
7, 1986, the effective date of this Section.
            (3)   The maximum width of any parking space(s) located in the
required front yard or portion of a front yard shall be the lesser of thirty
six percent (36%) of the width of the lot(s) upon which the driveway is located
or twenty feet (20').
            (4)   Where the driveway which leads to a parking space(s) in the
required front yard or a portion of the front yard does not lead to a garage, a
portion of the building which once was a garage but has been converted to
living space, or, other parking space(s) located in the side yard or rear yard
of the property, said driveway and parking space(s) located in the required
front yard or portion of a front yard shall be located along and adjacent to
one of the side yard property lines which if extended would intersect the
street in front of the property.
            (5)   A sketch of the property, driveway and front yard parking
space locations, along with dimensions thereof, must be submitted to the
department of quality control.
Said permit shall be obtained through the department of quality control, shall
evidence compliance with the foregoing five (5) conditions for front yard
parking in residential districts where the driveway upon which the parking
spaces are located does not lead to a garage, a portion of the building which
once was a garage but has been converted to living space, a side yard parking
space or a rear yard parking space, and shall have no fee associated with it.
Motor vehicles parking in any required front yard or portion of a front yard in
a residential district shall not extend over property lines and onto property
owned or leased by any person, firm or corporation other than the owner or
lessee of the property upon which the front yard parking is taking place. All
vehicles parked in the required front yard or portion of a front yard must
contain a valid current state license plate, and valid current village sticker
if registered in Oak Lawn.
         b.   In all office and commercial districts, off street parking spaces
open to the sky shall be located behind the front yard setback requirement from
any street lot line.
         c.   In manufacturing districts only, off street parking spaces open
to the sky may be located in any rear yard and in any side yard and in any
front yard but not to exceed twenty five percent (25%) of such required front
yard and not in any transitional yard as required in subsection
4-8-5C of this title.
   I.   Maintenance: All parking areas shall be maintained in good condition
according to provisions of the applicable village ordinances.
   J.   Number Of Spaces:
      1.   The total number of accessory parking spaces provided for a single-
family, two-family or multiple-family dwelling shall not exceed that required
by this title for such use or for an equivalent new use by more than fifty
percent (50%) or four (4) spaces, whichever number is greater.
      2.   When determination of the number of off street parking spaces
required by this title results in a requirement of a fractional space, the
fraction shall be counted as one space. Driveways and/or access aisles shall
not be considered in computing required parking area, except as otherwise
specifically provided.
   K.   Area:
      1.   A required off street parking space shall be at least nine feet (9')
in width and at least eighteen feet (18') in length, exclusive of access drives
or aisles, ramps or columns. Such space shall have a vertical clearance of at
least seven feet (7') from any ceiling drops or mechanical equipment intrusion
to the finished surface of the pavement.
      2.   Where a square foot requirement for parking is given, there shall be
a minimum of two (2) usable parking spaces per every one thousand (1,000)
square feet of required parking area.
   L.   Access:
      1.   Each required off street parking space shall open directly upon an
aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and efficient
means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off street parking
facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to a
street or alley in such a manner as to minimize interference with traffic
movement. No driveway across the public property at the right of way line shall
exceed a width of twenty five feet (25') except that a double driveway or
access to a gas station may be thirty five feet (35') to conform with state of
Illinois division of highway specifications.
      2.   Driveway widths shall be a minimum of twelve feet (12') for one-way
traffic and twenty four feet (24') for two-way traffic, except in multi-family
residential districts where the driveway width for two-way traffic may be
reduced to eighteen feet (18'), provided no parking spaces are adjacent to that
portion of the driveway so reduced in width. Access driveways shall have a
circular traffic flow, except that an access driveway leading to ninety degree
(90°) angle parking may be dead ended. Regardless of the width of the driveway,
the driveway approach apron at the curb line of the street shall not be reduced
to a width of less than thirty feet (30').
   M.   Aisle Widths: All car stalls shall have direct access to an aisle. The
minimum aisle width for parking stall approaches shall be as follows:
 
90° angle parking24 feet
60° angle parking18 feet
45° angle parking13 feet
30° angle parking12 feet
0° angle parking 12 feet
 
   N.   Improvement Of Alleys: Where an unimproved or a seal coat surfaced
alley is to be used for ingress or egress to a property, the alley shall be
paved and drained to conform to the village requirements for a fully improved
alley.
   O.   Parking Bumpers Or Curbs: Parking bumpers or curbs shall be installed
wherever the car stalls abut a public right of way. The parking bumpers or
curbs shall be installed so that when the vehicle is in the stall, the wheels
will be against the bumper or curb with no part of the vehicle overhanging onto
the public right of way. Parking bumpers shall also be installed to protect
abutting private property as above.
   P.   Signs: Wherever required on the parking lot in order to establish or
maintain proper traffic patterns, flows or control, adequate approved signing
shall be provided by the developer in accordance with the State of Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
4-13-3-3: EXISTING PARKING:
Existing required parking shall not be reduced by the storage of trailers,
trucks, disabled vehicles, bulk goods or commodities or by the use of the
parking area for the sale of any merchandise. Special permits for limited sales
which use the parking areas must be obtained from the Board of Trustees and
fees shall be regulated by Title 3 of this Code.
4-13-3-4: CONTROL OF OFF-SITE PARKING FACILITIES:
   A.   In cases where parking facilities are permitted on land other than the
zoning lot on which the buildings or use served is located, such facilities
shall be in the same ownership as the zoning lot occupied by the building or
use to which the parking facilities are necessary. The owner of the land upon
which the parking facilities are to be located shall be bound by covenants,
filed on record in the office of the Recorder of Deeds or the Registrar of
Titles of Cook County, requiring such heirs and assigns to maintain the
required number of parking facilities for the duration of the structure.
All off-street parking shall be considered contiguous for the purpose of
parking if it is not more than one hundred feet (100') away from the subject
property within the same block.
   B.   Buildings or uses existing on the effective date hereof which are
subsequently altered or enlarged so as to require the provision of parking
spaces under this Title, may be served by parking facilities located on land
other than the zoning lot on which the building or use served is located,
provided such facilities are within five hundred feet (500') walking distance
of a main entrance, to the use served as approved by the Zoning and Planning
Commission.
4-13-4: SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Adequate off-street parking spaces shall be provided to accommodate all the
motor vehicles of residents, employees, visitors, customers and vehicles used
in the conduct of an enterprise, but in no case shall there be less than the
minimum listed in the schedule below. Uses for which a specific parking
requirement is provided herein must follow that parking requirement regardless
of whatever zoning district the use is located, except as provided in Article
6C of this Title, C-3 Shopping Centers or as otherwise provided in this Title.
   A.   R-1 Residence District:
      Community buildings: Parking spaces equal in number to 40% of the
capacity in persons shall be provided.
      Educational institutions:
      Elementary and junior high schools: 1 parking space for every employee.
In addition, where an auditorium is available for public use, parking space
shall be provided equal in number to 40% of the capacity in persons of the
auditorium.
      High schools: 1 parking space for every employee and 1 parking space for
every 6 students. In addition, where an auditorium is available for public use,
parking space shall be provided equal in number to 40% of the capacity in
persons of the auditorium or gymnasium. ln determining the total number of
parking spaces to be provided, the greater number required in computing between
employees and students versus auditorium shall be used.
      Hospitals: 2 parking spaces for each hospital bed, plus 1 parking space
for each 2 employees based on the maximum number of employees per shift, plus 1
parking space for each staff doctor should be provided, Where doctors maintain
offices within the hospital or on hospital property for the general practice of
their field and specialty, additional parking shall be required per subsection
G of this Section. Parking may be provided in lots contiguous to or adjoining a
lot containing the principal use.
      Libraries: 1 parking space shall be provided for each 200 square feet of
gross floor area.
      One-family dwellings: 2 parking spaces for each dwelling unit.
      Parks, playgrounds and athletic fields: Parking spaces shall be provided
in adequate number as determined by the Planning and Development Commission to
serve the public.
   B.   R-2 Limited Multi-Family District: The regulations of the R-1 District
shall apply.
      Two-family dwellings: 2 parking spaces for each dwelling unit.
   C.   R-3 Multiple-Family District:
      Boarding and lodging houses: 11/2 parking spaces for each sleeping room.
      Fraternities, sororities: 1 parking space shall be provided for each 3
active members, plus 1 parking space for each 2 employees, plus 1 parking space
for the manager.
      Multi-family dwellings, row houses, town houses and garden-type homes: 2
parking spaces for each dwelling unit.
      Private clubs and lodges: Parking space shall be provided equal in number
to 40% of the capacity in persons of such establishment.
      Two-family dwellings: The regulations of the R-2 District shall apply.
   D.   C-1 General Business District: All retail sales and services listed in
the C-1 Business District, unless otherwise provided herein, shall provide the
following required parking ratio but in no case shall there be less than two
(2) usable parking spaces per every one thousand (1,000) square feet of parking
area. Parking ratio is as follows:
      All retail sales and services listed in the C-1 Business District, unless
otherwise provided herein, shall provide the following:
 
                   Parking Area Required -
Gross Floor Area   Excluding Loading or Unloaded
                   Areas and Service Driveways
0 - 3,000 sq. ft.  2 square feet for 1 square foot of floor area, including
                   parking space, aisles and driveways.
over 3,000 sq. ft. 3 square feet for 1 square foot of floor area, including
                   parking space, aisles and driveways.
 
      Business, music, dance, beauty or commercial schools: 1 parking space
shall be provided for each employee, plus 1 parking space for every 3 students
in the premises at one time.
      Churches and uses incidental thereto, including rectories and parish
houses: 1 parking space shall be provided for each 3 seating spaces.
      Convents, monasteries and seminaries: 1 parking space shall be provided
for each employee, plus 1 parking space for every 4 nonemployee individuals in
the premises at one time.
      Junior colleges, community colleges, colleges and universities: 1 parking
space for each employee. ln addition, 1 parking space for every 3 students in
the premises at one time.
      Public or quasi-public uses such as art galleries, museums, historical
sites or buildings: Parking shall be determined by consultation with the Zoning
and Planning Commission.
      Restaurants: Parking spaces equal in number to 50% of the capacity in
persons shall be provided.
      Radio and television studios as accessory to retail stores: 1 parking
space shall be provided for each 2 employees, plus 1 space for each 300 square
feet of gross floor area devoted to the studio. These requirements are in
addition to those for the related retail operation.
   E.   C-2 General Service District: All regulations of the C-1 General
Business District shall apply to like businesses and uses in the C-2 District.
      All retail sales and services listed in the C-2 Business District, unless
otherwise provided herein, shall provide the following required parking ratio
but in no case shall there be less than two (2) usable parking spaces per one
thousand (1,000) square feet of parking area. Parking ratio is as follows:
      All retail sales and services listed in the C-2 Business District, unless
otherwise provided herein, shall provide the following:
 
                   Parking Area Required -
Gross Floor Area   Excluding Loading or Unloading
                   Areas and Service Driveways
0 - 3,000 sq. ft.  2 square feet for 1 square foot of floor area, including
                   parking space, aisles and driveways.
over 3,000 sq. ft. 3 square feet for 1 square foot of floor area, including
                   parking space, aisles and driveways.
 
      Amusements:
         Indoor: Parking spaces equivalent in number to 50% of the capacities
in persons shall be provided. The following are examples of indoor amusements
wholly contained within buildings and of a commercial nature:
            Auditoriums
            Curling courts
            Exhibition halls
            Gymnasiums
            Hockey rinks
            Ice skating rinks
            Roller skating rinks
            Swimming pools
            Tennis, handball, squash and other similar courts
            Theaters
            Roller skating and ice skating rinks: 1 car stall shall be provided
for each 110 square feet of gross floor area (including the skating area). If
bleachers or other spectator areas are provided, add parking spaces equivalent
in number to 50% of the capacity in persons to the base parking requirement.
            All other indoor amusements other than those listed above shall be
computed as per subsection E of this Section.
         Outdoor: Parking spaces equivalent in number to 50% of the capacity in
persons shall be provided. All of the following outdoor amusements of a
commercial nature must receive a special use permit from the Zoning and
Planning Commission and the Board of Trustees pursuant to Chapter 14 of this
Title.
            Amusement parks
            Archery ranges
            Ballfields
            Carnivals, permanent
            Drive-in theaters
            Go-cart tracks
            Golf courses
            Golf driving ranges
            Gun clubs
            Hockey rinks
            Miniature golf
            Outdoor animal shows
            Parachuting towers
            Racing tracks
            Skating rinks
            Skiing ramps or hills
            Slides
            Stadiums
            Swimming pools
            Tennis courts
            Tobogganing hills or slides
            Trampoline centers
            Any other similar amusement.
      Bowling alleys: 5 parking spaces shall be provided for each alley, plus
the parking requirements for any lounges, bars, restaurants or other accessory
uses as provided herein, plus 1 car stall per each employee as applied to the
maximum number of employees on any 1 shift.
      Car wash: 1 parking space shall be provided for each 3 employees, plus 1
space for the owner or manager, and, in addition, reservoir parking space equal
in number to 5 times the maximum capacity of the car wash for automobiles
awaiting entrance to the car wash shall be provided. Maximum capacity in this
instance shall be defined as the greatest number possible of automobiles
undergoing some phase of laundering at the same time.
      Convalescent and nursing homes: 1 parking space for each 4 beds, plus 1
parking space for each staff doctor, plus 1 parking space for each 2 employees
on the maximum shift per day.
      Dance studios: 1 parking space shall be provided for each 2 employees,
plus 1 space for each 3 students in the premises at one time.
      Funeral homes/mortuaries: Parking shall be provided based upon the
occupancy pursuant to the following formula: Occupancy shall be computed as 1%
per each 15 square feet of all parlors/chapels. Parking stalls shall be
provided in the amount of 40% of the total amount of occupants.
      Gasoline and oil stations: 1 parking space shall be provided for every
employee, plus 1 space for the owner or manager, plus 1 space for each
maintenance or service vehicle.
      Hotels and motels: 1 parking space shall be provided for each dwelling
unit, plus 1 parking space for the owner or manager, plus 1 parking space for
each 2 employees. All ancillary uses shall be computed in addition to the above
and shall become part of the total parking requirement for the total facility.
      Lodge halls: Parking spaces equal in number to 50% of the capacity in
persons shall be provided.
      Taverns and cocktail lounges: Parking spaces equal in number to 50% of
the capacity in persons shall be provided.
      In computing capacity, the following formula is used: Capacity in persons
is the area of the building usable by the public divided by 10.
      Business, music, dance, beauty or commercial schools: 1 parking space
shall be provided for each employee, plus 1 parking space for every 3 students
in the premises at one time.
   F.   C-3 Regional Shopping District: All parking requirements as to area for
the C-3 regional shopping district are mandated in chapter 6, article C of this
title.
   G.   O Office District:
      Medical, dental or other health care offices: 1 parking space shall be
provided for each 125 square feet of gross floor area of the building or that
portion of the building used by the medical use, plus 1 space for each person,
employee and professional or technical staff member on duty at any one time.
      Offices and similar business and professional uses as permitted in the O
office district: 1 parking space for each 200 square feet of net floor area
space excluding hallways, stairways, stairwells, elevator shafts maintenance
and mechanical spaces, lavatories, fireproof vaults, closets or monumental or
other type lobbies used solely for ingress and egress through the office
building structure.
      Private or professional schools: 1 parking space shall be provided for
each employee, plus 1 parking space for every 3 students in the premises at one
time.
      The regulations of the C-1 general business district shall apply where
such uses are permitted in the O office district.
   H.   M-1 Restricted Manufacturing District:
      All parking requirements of business listed in any business zoning shall
apply to like business in the M-1 district.
      Airports and commercial heliports: Parking spaces shall be provided in
adequate number as determined by the Zoning and Planning Commission.
      Cartage and express facilities: 11/2 parking spaces of adequate size
shall be provided for each vehicle maintained on the premises, plus 11/2 spaces
per each employee.
      Highway maintenance shops and yards: 11/2 parking spaces shall be
provided for each employee, plus 1 parking space of appropriate size for every
vehicle maintained on the premises.
      Production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or storage
of materials, goods or products, or where the operation is performed off-site,
such as decorating or similar contractors: 11/2 parking spaces for each 2
employees, plus 11/2 parking spaces of appropriate size for each vehicle
maintained on the premises.
      Public utility and service uses: 11/2 parking spaces of appropriate size
shall be provided for every vehicle maintained on the premises, plus 11/
2 parking spaces for each employee, plus parking spaces adequate in number as
determined by the Zoning and Planning Commission to serve the public.
      Trade schools: 1 parking space shall be provided for each employee, plus
1 parking space for every 3 students in the premises at one time.
      As used in this subsection "employees" applies to the maximum number of
employees on any one shift.
   I.   Telemarketing And Mass Mailing Business: Because of the large number of
employees that can be on the premises at the same time in relation to a
telemarketing or mass mailing business, and the need for additional parking
spaces at shift changes, for telemarketing and mass mailing business,
regardless of the zoning district in which such businesses are located, there
shall be 11/2 parking spaces for each employee, based upon the maximum number
of employees that can be on the subject premises at the same time.
4-13-5: OFF-STREET LOADING BERTHS:
4-13-5-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Off-street loading berths accessory to uses allowed in all districts shall be
provided in accordance with the regulations set forth hereinafter:
   A.   Location: All required loading berths shall be located on the same
zoning lot as the use served. All motor vehicle loading berths which abut a
residence district or residence lot or intervening alley separating such
loading berth from a residence district or residence lot shall be completely
screened therefrom by building walls or a uniformly painted solid fence, wall
or door or any combination thereof, not less than six feet (6') in height. No
permitted or required loading berth shall be located within thirty feet (30')
of the nearest point of intersection of any two (2) streets. No loading berth
shall be located in a required front or side yard in a residence district or in
a required front yard in any other district.
   B.   Area: Unless otherwise specified, a required off street loading berth
shall be at least ten feet (10') in width by at least twenty five feet (25') in
length, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical
clearance of at least fourteen feet (14').
   C.   Access: Each required off street loading berth shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in such a means as
to minimize interference with traffic movement and shall be subject to approval
by the village.
   D.   Surfacing: All open off street loading berths shall be improved with
asphalt surface consisting of ten inches (10") of compacted stone and
screenings and three inches (3") of asphalt or seven inches (7") of bituminous
aggregate mixture (BAM) plus two inches (2") of asphalt or such standards as
may be promulgated from time to time by the village.
   E.   Repair And Service: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind
shall be permitted in association with loading facilities.
   F.   Utilization: Space allocated to any off street loading or unloading
berth or service driveway shall not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the
space requirement for any off street parking facilities or portion thereof.
   G.   Minimum Facilities: Uses for which off street loading facilities are
required herein but which are located in buildings of less floor area than the
minimum prescribed for such required facilities shall be provided with adequate
receiving facilities, accessible by motor vehicle, off any adjacent alley,
service drive or open space on the same zoning lot.
4-13-5-2: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   R-1 And R-2 Residential Districts: In the R-1 and R-2 residential
districts, off street loading facilities for all nonresidential uses shall be
provided in accordance with the following minimum requirements:
      1.   Under Twenty Thousand Square Feet: For buildings containing less
than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of gross floor area, there shall be
provided on the same zoning lot adequate receiving facilities, accessible by
motor vehicle, off any adjacent alley, service drive or open space.
      2.   Twenty Thousand To One Hundred Thousand Square Feet: For buildings
containing twenty thousand (20,000) to one hundred thousand (100,000) square
feet of gross floor area, one off street berth shall be provided.
      3.   More Than One Hundred Thousand Square Feet: For buildings containing
more than one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area there
shall be provided one off street loading berth for each one hundred thousand
(100,000) square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof.
      4.   Planned Development: Loading berths shall be provided on the basis
of required berths for each individual use.
   B.   R-3 Residential District: The regulations of the R-1 and R-
2 residential districts shall apply, and in addition, the following:
      1.   Multiple-Family Dwellings: For buildings containing twenty thousand
(20,000) to two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet of floor area, one off
street loading berth shall be provided, plus one additional loading berth for
each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of floor area or
fraction thereof.
      2.   Planned Developments: Loading berths shall be provided on the basis
of the required berths for each individual use.
   C.   C-1, C-2, C-3, O And M-1 Districts: In the C-1, C-2, C-3, O and M-
1 districts, off street loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with
the following requirements:
      1.   Multiple-Family Dwellings Where Permitted: For buildings containing
twenty thousand (20,000) to two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet of gross
floor area devoted to residential use, one loading berth shall be provided,
plus one additional loading berth for each additional one hundred thousand
(100,000) square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof.
      2.   Planned Developments: Loading berths shall be provided on the basis
of the required berths for each individual use.
      3.   For All Other Uses: Loading facilities shall be provided in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
Gross Floor Area Of     Required Number
Building In Thousands   And Size Of
Of Square Feet          Loading Berths
   5 to 10          1 (10' x 25')
   10 to 25         2 (10' x 25' each)
   25 to 40         2 (10' x 50' each)
   40 to 100        3 (10' x 50' each)
 
For each additional two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet of gross floor
area or fraction thereof over one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of
gross floor area, one additional loading berth shall be provided; such
additional berth to be at least ten feet (10') in width by fifty feet (50') in
length.
4-13-6: PARKING VARIATIONS; AUTOMATIC REDUCTION:
In the event that the owner of property, in relation to which a parking
variation has been granted, is able to create additional parking spaces on the
property, or acquires additional property on which parking spaces are located
(subject to the requirements of subsection 4-13-3-4A of this chapter), the
previously granted parking variation shall automatically be reduced to the
correct variation needed in light of the additional parking. When such an
automatic reduction occurs, village staff shall advise the property owner of
such reduction in writing, with copies of said letter being put in the house
file relative to said property and attached to the original ordinance granting
said parking variation. (Ords. 75-10-55, 76-1-2, 77-8-7, 77-29-48, 81-12-19,
81-17-29, 81-36-77, 86-10-38, 87-7-26, 87-17-70, 90-9-37, 92-11-45, 93-9-24,
97-14-60, 98-1-1, 00-20-62, 16-09-24, 19-16-65, 19-16-66)
CHAPTER 14
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
4-14-1: Purpose
4-14-2: Procedure for Application for Special Use
4-14-3: Authorization
4-14-4: Approval of Special Use
4-14-5: Expiration of Special Use
4-14-6: Conditions and Guarantees
4-14-7: Standards
4-14-8: Types of Special Uses
4-14-1: PURPOSE:
The development and execution of a zoning ordinance is based upon the division
of the Village into districts, within which districts the use of land and
buildings and the bulk and location of buildings and structures in relation to
the land are substantially uniform. lt is recognized, however, that there are
special uses which, because of their unique characteristics, cannot be properly
classified in any particular district or districts without consideration, in
each case, of the impact of those uses upon neighboring land and of the public
need for the particular use at the particular location. Such special uses fall
into several categories:
   A.   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with a public
interest.
   B.   Uses entirely private in character but of such unusual nature that
their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact
upon neighboring property or public facilities.
   C.   Uses not specifically authorized by this Title.
   D.   Uses of a temporary nature not authorized by this Title.
4-14-2: PROCEDURE FOR APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE:
   A.   Request for Special Use: Application for a special use or expansion of
a special use shall be filed in writing with the Village administration using
such forms as shall be supplied and required by the Village. The application
shall contain such information as the Zoning and Planning Commission shall,
from time to time, require and shall contain, as a minimum, the address and
legal description of the location for which a special use is requested, a
statement and adequate evidence showing that the special use will conform to
the standards set forth in Section
4-14-7 of this Chapter, a statement of the purpose and reason for the request,
names of all owners of the property in question and the zoning classification
in effect, and shall be accompanied by plans showing the proposed use and
effect and extent of the special use requested.
   B.   Fees: The application for a special use shall be accompanied by a
filing fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) payable to the Village. The fee
is nonrefundable and may be increased by the administration without amendment
of this Title when and if the fee is less than the amount needed to pay the
costs of published notice as required in subsection
2-1-7-1C of this Code.
   C.   Notice of Hearing by Publication: Upon receipt of a properly executed
application for special use, the Village administration shall set a date for
public hearing to occur not more than sixty (60) days after receipt of proper
application unless a later date is requested by the petitioner. The Village
administration shall then place, in a qualified newspaper of general
circulation in Oak Lawn, a legal notice of public hearing. Said notice shall
contain, as a minimum, the address and legal description of the property
involved, the date and place and time of the public hearing, the general nature
and purpose of the proposed special use, and the name of the appropriate
department of the Village from which information may be obtained. Said notice
shall be placed not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days prior
to the date of the public hearing.
   D.   Notification to Adjacent Property Owners: At the time of hearing on the
application for special use, the Department of Community Development and Growth
Management shall be required to furnish an affidavit setting forth the names
and addresses of the persons who paid the taxes during the last preceding year
on each lot or parcel of property lying within the Village and within three
hundred feet (300') of the boundary lines of the lot or parcel on which a
special use is requested and stating that written notice of the proposed
special use has been personally served upon said owners of record at least
seven (7) days prior to the date of the public hearing or that said notices
have been mailed to said owners of record at least ten (10) days prior to the
date of the public hearing and certifying that owners of tax exempt properties
within the same boundaries have been notified.
      1.   Notification of Condominium Owners: Where condominium property is
located within the aforementioned three hundred foot (300') notification area,
notice shall be provided in the same manner as set forth above, and the
following notification regulations shall apply;
         a.   If the condominium complex, in its entirety, consists of twelve
(12) or fewer units, notification shall be provided to the taxpayer of record
for each unit.
         b.   If the condominium complex, in its entirety, consists of more
than twelve (12) units, notification shall only be provided to the condominium
association.
      2.   Notification of Commercial Tenants: Where the petition relates to
nonresidential property, notification as set forth above shall also be
provided, in the same manner as set forth above, to the occupants of the
building or buildings located on the same lot or parcel in relation to which
the petition applies.
   E.   Posting of Notice: The petitioner for a special use shall cause to be
posted, on the subject property in a position conspicuously visible and
readable from the street, not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15)
days prior to the date of the public hearing, a sign of not less than twenty
two inches by twenty eight inches (22" x 28") carrying notice of the
application for variation, the purpose of the variation and the date and time
and place of public hearing. Petitioner is required to place only one sign and
shall so certify in the affidavit required in subsection D above, that this has
been done. Petitioner is not required to replace any signs which are removed by
others or vandalized.
   F.   Public Hearing: A public hearing before the Zoning and Planning
Commission is required for each application for special use and shall be
scheduled no later than forty five (45) days after receipt of the application
in proper form unless petitioner requests a later date. Public hearings on
special uses shall be conducted under the general rules for public hearings as
set forth in Section
2-1-7-1 of this Code. Findings and recommendations on requests for special use
shall be in compliance with other sections of this Chapter and with Sections
2-1-7-2 and
2-1-7-3 of this Code. Action by the Board of Trustees shall be in compliance
with Section
4-14-4 of this Chapter. The Zoning and Planning Commission shall report
findings and recommendations on all matters requiring a public hearing to the
Board of Trustees. (Ord. 20-14-36)
4-14-3: AUTHORIZATION:
For each application for a special use, the Zoning and Planning Commission
shall report to the Board of Trustees its findings and recommendations,
including any stipulations of additional conditions and guarantees that such
conditions will be complied with. The Board of Trustees may grant or deny any
application for a special use; provided, however, that in the event of written
protest against any proposed special use, signed by owners of twenty percent
(20%) of the land for which notice has previously been given as required in
subsection
4-14-2D of this Chapter, and filed with the Village Clerk, such special use
shall not be granted except by the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all
members of the Board of Trustees.
4-14-4: APPROVAL OF SPECIAL USE:
   A.   Action by Zoning and Planning Commission: The Zoning and Planning
Commission may approve or disapprove the requested variation. In the course of
its consideration of the variation, the Zoning and Planning Commission may
require changes from the plans as originally submitted. If the approval is
granted, it includes the plans as accepted by the Zoning and Planning
Commission and no substantial changes in the plans can be made unless a further
public hearing is held to consider the changes. Substantial changes are those
which, in the opinion of the administration, alter the concept, basic
dimensions, proposed use or site utilization of the subject property. The
Zoning and Planning Commission shall render its recommendations no later than
thirty (30) days after the public hearing, except that the question may be
postponed from time to time, if requested, in writing, by the petitioner, to a
date certain, or if additional information is required by the Zoning and
Planning Commission.
   B.   Action by the Board of Trustees: The Board of Trustees shall not act
upon a proposed special use unless and until it has received a written report
and recommendation from the Zoning and Planning Commission on the proposed
special use consistent with subsection
4-14-2F of this Chapter.
In cases where the Zoning and Planning Commission recommends that a proposed
special use not be adopted, such special use shall not be passed except by the
favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all members of the Board of Trustees.
If an application for a proposed special use is not acted upon finally by the
Board of Trustees within sixty (60) days of the time of receipt of the
recommendations of the Zoning and Planning Commission, the application shall be
deemed to have been denied.
4-14-5: EXPIRATION OF SPECIAL USE:
A special use expires at the end of one year from the date of approval unless
necessary permits have been taken out. A special use expires at the end of
eighteen (18) months unless construction (defined as placement of footings) is
substantially underway and continuing. These deadlines shall be extended
automatically if delay is caused by strikes, civil commotion or an act of God.
4-14-6: CONDITIONS AND GUARANTEES:
Prior to the granting of any special use, the Zoning and Planning Commission
may recommend and the Board of Trustees shall stipulate such conditions and
restrictions upon the establishment, location, construction, maintenance and
operation of the special use as deemed necessary for the protection of the
public interest and to secure compliance with the standards and requirements
specified in Section 4-14-7 of this Chapter. In all cases in which special uses
are granted, the Board of Trustees shall require such evidence and guarantees
as it may deem necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in connection
therewith are being, and will be, complied with.
4-14-7: STANDARDS:
No special use shall be recommended by the Zoning and Planning Commission
unless said Commission shall find:
   A.   That the establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use
will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals,
comfort or general welfare.
   B.   That the special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood.
   C.   That the establishment of the special use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district.
   D.   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided.
   E.   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress
and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
   F.   That the special use shall in all other respects conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as such
regulations may in each instance be modified by the board of trustees pursuant
to the recommendations of the Zoning and Planning Commission.
4-14-8: TYPES OF SPECIAL USES:
The following list of uses to be considered as special uses under this chapter
is not intended to preclude application for uses not contemplated at the time
of the effective date hereof:
Automobile collision repair services which include vehicle body, frame and/or
fender straightening and repair, dent removal and the painting of vehicles in
relation thereto, however, only in the C-2 general service district and only
when operated in conjunction with and as part of a new car dealership.
Car washes as principal uses are allowed as special uses only in the C-2 and C-
3 Zoning Districts. For such car wash uses, in addition to the standards
applicable to all special uses, the applicant is required to demonstrate in
addition that:
   A.   A need for the car wash at the location specified; and
   B.   Locating a car wash at the location requested is not likely to displace
potential retail sales tax generating businesses or to hinder development of
retail uses on nearby properties.
Churches and uses incidental thereto, including rectories and parish houses, in
other than C-1 and C-2 districts.
Convents, monasteries and seminaries in other than C-1 and C-2 districts.
Fraternity and sorority buildings.
Hospitals, except veterinary.
Junior colleges, community colleges, colleges and universities, and uses
accessory and incidental thereto, in other than C-1 and C-2 districts.
Large community residences, in other than R-3 and planned R-3 districts,
provided:
   A.   They are not located within one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') of
another community residence.
   B.   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied for
and received (see section
4-3-5 of this title).
   C.   Prior to occupancy, an administrative occupancy permit is applied for
and received (see section
4-3-9 of this title).
Medical cannabis cultivation and dispensary facilities, however, only in the C-
1, C-2, C-3, and M-1 district(s) and subject to the following conditions:
   A.   Facilities shall at all times comply with requirements, rules and
restrictions as set forth in the compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot
program act (IL public act 098-0122) or as modified by applicable law and at
all times comply with the terms and conditions of any special use permit that
may be granted in the future.
   B.   Facilities shall not be allowed as home occupations.
   C.   No medical cannabis or paraphernalia shall be displayed or kept at a
facility so as to be visible from outside the premises, including, but not
limited to, the depiction on signage.
   D.   On site use prohibited. No marijuana shall be smoked, eaten or
otherwise consumed or ingested on the premises.
   E.   Facilities shall have operating hours not earlier than eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. and not later than ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday
and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Sunday.
   F.   Drive-through services are prohibited.
   G.   Additional conditions may be imposed as a part of the special use
approval to provide for the compatibility with adjacent uses and mitigate
potential impacts from the dispensing operation.
Medical office/clinic in excess of four thousand (4,000) gross square feet and
the location of the proposed medical office/clinic is on 95th Street or Cicero
Avenue.
Nonpublic nursery schools, preschools and daycare centers.
Outdoor amusements such as those listed in subsection 4-13-4E of this title.
Payday loan stores, however only in the C-1 general business district, C-
2 general service district or M-1 restricted manufacturing district.
Precious metals dealers.
Private clubs and lodges.
Public and private elementary, junior high and high schools with rooms
regularly used for housing and sleeping purposes.
Schools of nursing.
Senior citizen housing developments.
"Teenage cabarets/juice bars" as defined by title 3, chapter 4, article K of
this code, however, only in C-3 regional shopping district and M-1 restricted
manufacturing district and not within three hundred feet (300') of a park or
within three hundred feet (300') of any church or school as measured from
building to building.
Temporary mobile units as follows: The provisions of section
4-14-5 of this chapter shall not apply to the provisions of this special use.
   Temporary mobile unit used on construction site subject to its immediate
removal upon completion of the new construction or completion of the repairs
due to fire damage or remodeling, whichever is applicable.
   Temporary mobile unit used in connection with business for specific time. At
the termination of the time limit granted by the board of trustees, such mobile
unit shall be removed. No requests for an extension of such time limit shall be
considered or permitted.
      Temporary mobile unit used by new automobile dealer in conjunction with
its used car sales lot, provided that such mobile unit must be placed and
remain on the used car sales lot, and provided the dealer must maintain an on-
site office facility for the transaction of sales in an on-site permanent
building with restroom facilities; the special use shall terminate and the
mobile unit shall be removed upon a change in the ownership of the new car
dealership; and all cooking and washroom facilities shall be removed so long as
it is used as a used car sales office/shelter.
   There shall be a five foot (5') screened, landscaped buffer around the
perimeter of the unit.
Used automobile dealers as principal uses, and not in conjunction with a new
automobile dealership, are allowed as special uses only in the M-1 district,
and, in addition to the standards applicable to all special uses, the applicant
is required to demonstrate the following:
   A.   The facilities and lots must be in compliance with at least the minimum
requirements established under 625 ILCS 5/5-100 et seq. and Title 92, Section
1020.10, of the Illinois Administrative Code concerning Dealers Established
Place of Business.
   B.   The facilities and lots must have an on-site business or sales office
with restroom facilities and located in a permanent building structure
containing not less than seven hundred (700) square feet of interior floor
space. Any new structure shall conform to the requirements of the Village Code,
as amended from time to time.
   C.   Any lot, not including the area occupied by a structure, used for the
sale of vehicles shall be at least twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet.
   D.   The lot shall be improved, at a minimum, with a gravel base of not less
than four inches (4") covered by a minimum of three inches (3") of asphalt or
five inches (5") of concrete.
   E.   The finished grade of the improved lot shall not be less than twelve
inches (12") or more than thirty-six inches (36") above the grade of the street
adjoining said premises and shall comply with all erosion and stormwater
control provisions of the Village Code.
   F.   The lot shall include at least two (2) twelve feet (12') wide
driveways, one (1) for ingress and one (1) for egress, meeting all requirements
of the Village Code.
   G.   Parking spaces for inventory shall be provided and marked and shall be
not less than ten feet (10') by twenty feet (20') for each used vehicle.
   H.   The lot shall be properly illuminated at night, so that vehicles for
sale can be properly inspected by a prospective customer; said lighting shall
be shielded from abutting or adjacent districts zoned for residential use.
   I.   A six foot (6') privacy fence or wall shall be erected to shield the
lot from abutting or adjacent districts zoned for residential use.
   J.   The structure or lot used for the display of used vehicles shall be
separate and apart from any other business.
   K.   Only clean vehicles in good and operable condition shall be displayed
on the property. No junk, wrecked, or inoperative vehicles will be permitted to
remain on the property for more than forty-eight (48) hours.
Where a use is not permitted in a zoning category, the use may be considered as
a special use, a variation or a rezoning with the exception of the uses listed
above, which may be considered only as special uses; except that PUD ordinances
take precedence. Notwithstanding the foregoing, adult uses and adult
entertainment facilities shall not be considered as a special use in any zoning
category, and are permitted only in the M-1 zoning district, subject to the
requirements of section 4-8-10 of this title. (Ords. 75-10-55, 77-29-48, 81-17-
30, 81-36-77, 87-17-70, 90-3-14, 90-16-68, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 00-5-12, 01-19-
69, 08-06-22, 12-05-17, 14-27-63, 15-16-63, 19-16-66, 20-13-32, 24-09-29, 25-
06-09)
CHAPTER 15
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
SECTION:
4-15-1: Legislative Findings
4-15-2: Purpose
4-15-3: Definitions
4-15-4: Recognition Of Established Industry Site Selection Criteria
4-15-5: Radio Frequency Emissions
4-15-6: General Requirements
4-15-7: Site Location Preferences
4-15-8: Exemptions
4-15-9: Permitted Uses
4-15-10: Special Use Permit Required
4-15-11: Variation From General Requirements
4-15-12: Certifications And Inspections
4-15-13: Maintenance
4-15-14: Abandonment
4-15-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS:
The communications act of 1934 as amended by the telecommunications act of 1996
("the act") grants the federal communications commission (FCC) exclusive
jurisdiction over the regulation of the environmental effects of radio
frequency (RF) emissions from telecommunications towers, antennas and/or
related equipment; and the regulation of radio signal interference among users
of the RF spectrum. The village of Oak Lawn's (hereinafter "village")
regulation of telecommunications towers, antennas and/or related equipment in
the village will not have the effect of prohibiting any person from providing
wireless telecommunications services in violation of the act.
4-15-2: PURPOSE:
The purposes of these regulations are to regulate the placement, construction,
and modification of telecommunications towers, antennas and/or related
equipment in order to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public, while at the same time not unreasonably interfering with the
development of the competitive wireless telecommunications marketplace in the
village.
Specifically, the purposes of these regulations are:
   A.   To regulate the location of new telecommunications towers, antennas
and/or related equipment in the village;
   B.   To protect residential areas and other land uses from potential adverse
impact of siting of new telecommunications towers, antennas and/or related
equipment;
   C.   To minimize the adverse visual impact of new telecommunications towers,
antennas and/or related equipment through careful design, siting, and
landscaping;
   D.   To promote and encourage the shared use or "collocation" of existing
towers and alternative support structures or buildings as a "primary" option
rather than construction of additional new telecommunications towers;
   E.   To promote and encourage utilization of technological designs that may
eliminate or reduce the need for erection of new telecommunications towers,
antennas and/or related equipment;
   F.   To avoid potential damage to property caused by telecommunications
towers, antennas and/or related equipment by ensuring that such structures are
soundly and carefully designed, constructed, modified, maintained, and removed
when no longer used or are determined to be structurally unsound; and
   G.   To ensure that new telecommunications towers, antennas and/or related
equipment are compatible with surrounding land uses.
4-15-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ALTERNATIVE SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Any structure or building, other than a tower,
which can be used for the location of telecommunications antennas and/or
related equipment.
ANTENNA: Any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio, data, internet,
or television communications through the sending or receiving of
electromagnetic waves, and including related equipment attached to a tower,
structure or building, for the purposes of providing such service.
APPLICANT: Any service provider or person, partnership, or company, or any
authorized employee or agent of any of the foregoing, who files an application
for any permit or approval necessary to install, maintain, modify or remove a
telecommunications tower, antenna and/or related equipment.
APPLICATION: The process by which an applicant submits a request to construct,
build, modify, or erect a telecommunications tower, antenna and/or related
equipment upon a parcel of land within the village, and shall include all
written documentation, verbal statements, and representations, in whatever form
or forum, made by an applicant to the village concerning such a request.
COLLOCATION: The shared use of a tower or alternative support structure or
building by more than one wireless telecommunications service provider.
DISGUISED SUPPORT STRUCTURE (OR TOWER): Any telecommunications support
structure or building, tower, antenna and/or related equipment which is
designed to enhance compatibility with adjacent land uses, including, but not
limited to, architecturally screened roof or wall mounted antennas, antennas
integrated into architectural elements, and towers designed to look other than
like a tower.
ENGINEER: A structural engineer licensed by the state of Illinois and
maintaining professional liability insurance in amounts satisfactory to the
village.
FAA: The federal aviation administration.
FCC: The federal communications commission.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or other legal entity, private or public, whether for profit or not
for profit.
SERVICE PROVIDER: Any corporation, company, association, firm, partnership,
limited liability corporation, other entity or individual or person which
provides wired or wireless telecommunications services licensed by the FCC.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA: Any cables, wires, lines, waveguides, and any other
related equipment or devices (including equipment shelters, enclosures or
cabinets) that are associated with the transmission or reception of wireless
telecommunications which a person or service provider seeks to locate or has
installed upon or near a tower or alternative support structure or building.
TOWER: Any structure, including self-supporting lattice, guyed, or monopole
structures, that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of
supporting one or more wireless telecommunications antennas and/or related
equipment.
TOWER HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average grade of the base
of the structure, including the main tower and base pad, at ground level to its
highest point, excluding all attachments thereto that do not exceed the main
tower height by more than ten feet (10').
TOWER SITE (OR COMPOUND): A tract or parcel of land, including any leased
portion thereof, upon which contains or is proposed to contain wireless
telecommunications service towers, antennas and/or related equipment, including
support structures or buildings, and accessory buildings or shelters, and may
include other uses associated with and ancillary to telecommunications
services.
4-15-4: RECOGNITION OF ESTABLISHED INDUSTRY SITE SELECTION CRITERIA:
The village recognizes that in establishing new tower sites, the wireless
telecommunications industry requires a location that is technologically
compatible with such service provider's established telecommunications system
or network. Generally an area is identified, based upon engineering constraints
and the desired area of service, and specific locations within the identified
area are evaluated by the service providers using criteria that typically
includes, but is not limited to: a) the topography as it relates to line of
sight transmissions for optimum efficiency, b) the availability of physical
access to the site, including access to electric power and land based telephone
lines or microwave link capability, c) the availability of leaseable lands, and
landlords who want such towers, antennas and/or related equipment to be located
on their properties, d) the screening potential of existing vegetation,
structures and topographic features, e) compatibility with adjacent land uses,
f) the least number of sites to cover the desired area, g) the greatest amount
of coverage, consistent with physical requirements, h) the availability of
opportunities to mitigate possible visual impact, and i) the viability of
suitable existing towers and alternative support structures or buildings for
telecommunications antennas and/or related equipment mounting or "collocation".
4-15-5: RADIO FREQUENCY EMISSIONS:
The village recognizes that the act gives the federal communications commission
(FCC) sole jurisdiction of the field of regulation of radio frequency (RF)
emissions and does not allow the village to condition or deny, on the basis of
RF impacts, the approval of any telecommunications antennas and/or related
equipment (whether mounted on towers or alternative support structures or
buildings) which meet FCC standards. Applicants may however be required, upon
request of the village, to submit technical information on the proposed power
density of their proposed telecommunications antenna and/or related equipment
in order to demonstrate how it meets FCC standards.
4-15-6: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following provisions shall govern the placement, construction, and
modification of telecommunications towers, antennas and/or related equipment:
   A.   Principal Or Accessory Use: Telecommunications towers, antennas and/or
related equipment may be considered a principal use in all zoning districts
where permitted, or an accessory use to existing industrial, commercial,
governmental, public utility or other nonresidential uses, subject to
compliance with these regulations.
   B.   Shared Use: No new telecommunications tower shall be built,
constructed, or erected in the village unless such tower is capable of
supporting or "collocating" another service provider's operating
telecommunications antennas and/or related equipment comparable in weight,
size, and surface area to the telecommunications antennas and/or related
equipment installed by the applicant on the tower within six (6) months of the
completion of the tower construction.
   C.   Setbacks: Setback requirements for approved telecommunications towers
shall be measured from the base of the tower to the property line of the parcel
of land on which it is to be located. Where adjacent to nonresidentially used
property, towers shall be set back a minimum distance equal to the height of
the proposed tower. Towers located on parcels adjacent to property used for
residential purposes shall be set back a minimum distance of two (2) times or
twice the height of the proposed tower.
   D.   Separation: Separation distances between telecommunications towers
shall be measured by drawing or following a straight line between the base of
the existing tower or structure and the base of the proposed tower or
structure. Proposed tower structures shall be separated by a minimum of one
thousand five hundred feet (1,500') from all other existing towers, whether
monopole, self-supporting lattice, or guyed, or towers which have been issued a
building or special use permit but are not yet constructed at the time the
building or special use permit is granted.
   E.   Structural Integrity: All telecommunications towers shall be designed
and certified by an engineer to be structurally sound and, at minimum, in
conformance with the building and other applicable codes adopted by the
village, and any other standards outlined in these regulations.
   F.   Design: All new towers shall be of a self-supporting monopole type
design. Guyed or lattice towers shall be prohibited.
   G.   Height: Telecommunications towers shall be exempt from the maximum
height restrictions, if applicable, of the zoning districts where located. All
such towers shall be permitted to a maximum height of one hundred feet (100')
in all zoning districts subject to the approval of the Zoning and Planning
Commission.
   H.   Signs And Advertising: The placement of signs or other forms of
advertising on telecommunications towers, structures or equipment shelters
regulated by the provisions of these regulations, other than one identification
sign not exceeding one square foot in size, shall be prohibited.
   I.   Lighting: Telecommunications towers shall not be artificially lighted
except as may be required by the federal aviation administration (FAA) or other
state or federal agencies having jurisdiction over the regulation of lighting.
If such lighting is required, a description of the required lighting scheme
shall be made a part of the application to the village's building department to
install, build or modify the tower or telecommunications antenna and/or related
equipment. For security purposes, equipment enclosures, cabinets or shelters
may have lighting if the design chosen will cause the least disturbance to
surrounding property.
   J.   Fencing And Landscaping: All telecommunications sites or compounds,
including towers and equipment enclosures, shall be surrounded by a minimum
eight foot (8') high fence. Such fencing shall be of residential quality, such
as wood privacy fencing, PVC, or HDPE. A detailed description of the proposed
fence shall be made a part of the application to the village's building
department. The village may require landscaping in excess of the requirements
of this subsection in order to enhance compatibility with adjacent land uses.
   K.   Access: A minimum of one paved vehicular parking space, for periodic
maintenance and service, shall be provided on site. Vehicle or outdoor storage
shall be prohibited.
4-15-7: SITE LOCATION PREFERENCES:
In siting new telecommunications towers, all applicants shall be required, and
shall demonstrate by substantive evidence, that due consideration has been
given to the "collocation" of the applicant's telecommunications antenna and/or
related equipment on existing towers or suitable alternative support structures
or buildings, subject to the "order of preference" as follows:
   A.   First preference: The "collocation" of telecommunications antennas and/
or related equipment on existing towers that are: 1) owned by the village or
other governmental agency or public utility, or 2) privately owned, if
"collocation" is not technologically or economically feasible on existing
towers owned by the village or other governmental agency or public utility.
   B.   Second preference: The "collocation" of telecommunications antennas
and/or related equipment on existing alternative support structures or
buildings that are: 1) owned by the village or other governmental agency or
public utility, if "collocation" is not technologically or economically
feasible on existing towers, or 2) privately owned, if "collocation" is not
technologically or economically feasible on existing towers or alternative
support structures or buildings owned by the village or other governmental
agency or public utility.
   C.   Third preference: The location of new towers on land located within the
village's manufacturing zoning district that are: 1) owned by the village or
other governmental agency or public utility, if "collocation" on existing
towers or alternative support structures or buildings is not technologically or
economically feasible, or 2) privately owned, if "collocation" on existing
towers or alternative support structures or buildings owned by the village or
other governmental agency or public utility is not technologically or
economically feasible.
   D.   Fourth preference: The location of new towers on land located within
the village's commercial zoning district that are: 1) owned by the village or
other governmental agency or public utility, if "collocation" on existing
towers or alternative support structures or buildings, or the location of new
towers, on land located within industrial zoning districts, is not
technologically or economically feasible, or 2) privately owned, if
"collocation" on existing towers or alternative support structures or
buildings, or the location of new towers, on land located within industrial
zoning districts, owned by the village or other governmental agency or public
utility, is not technologically or economically feasible.
   E.   Other location preferences: The location of new towers on land located
in the village's residential zoning districts that are: 1) village owned or
owned by other governmental agencies or public utilities, if "collocation" on
existing towers or alternative support structures or buildings, or the location
of new towers, on land located within industrial or commercial zoning
districts, is not technologically or economically feasible, or 2) privately
owned, if "collocation" on existing towers or alternative support structures or
buildings, or the location of new towers, on land located within the village's
manufacturing or commercial zoning districts, owned by the village or other
governmental agency or public utility, is not technologically or economically
feasible. Notwithstanding the preferences referred to in this section, or
anything else contained in these ordinances to the contrary, any new tower
proposed to be installed in any residential zoning district (R-1, R-2, or R-3)
or any public lands or proposed public lands zoning district (PL or PPL) shall
be treated as a special use hereunder (section
4-15-10 of this chapter) and shall require the approval of the Zoning and
Planning Commission and the board of trustees.
4-15-8: EXEMPTIONS:
Subject to compliance with the applicable provisions of these regulations, the
following shall be considered "exempt" telecommunications towers, antennas and/
or related equipment and shall be a permitted use of land in all zoning
districts:
   A.   The routine maintenance or repair of existing telecommunications
towers, antennas and/or related equipment (excluding structural work or changes
in height or dimensions of towers, antennas, buildings or enlargement of
existing tower sites or compounds) provided that compliance with the standards
of these regulations are maintained;
   B.   Television and/or citizens band radio antennas subject to compliance
with the applicable provisions of this code;
   C.   The placement of dual polar panel antennas on wooden or steel utility
poles that do not exceed forty feet (40') in height, provided that all related
equipment is contained within a cabinet; and
   D.   Other alternative telecommunications antennas and/or related equipment
that "technologically" does not require the use of new towers, such as cable
microcell equipment using multiple low powered transmitters/receivers, as may
be approved by the village.
4-15-9: PERMITTED USES:
Subject to compliance with these regulations and the provisions of section
4-15-7, "Site Location Preferences", of this chapter the following shall be a
permitted use of land in all zoning districts:
   A.   The installation or attachment of additional, or replacement of,
telecommunications equipment, including antennas and equipment shelters, to any
existing tower, including, but not limited to, water and high voltage
transmission towers, existing on the effective date of these regulations or
subsequently approved in accordance with these regulations, shall be permitted
provided that any additional equipment shelters are located within the existing
tower site or compound area.
   B.   The installation or mounting of any telecommunications antennas and/or
related equipment, which is not attached to a tower, shall be permitted on any
alternative support structure or building that is at least fifty feet (50') in
height, and provided that: 1) the height from grade of the attached antenna
and/or related equipment does not exceed the height from grade of the
alternative support structure or building by more than twenty five percent
(25%); and 2) any telecommunications equipment and their appurtenances which
are located above the primary roof of an alternative support structure or
building shall be set back a minimum of one foot (1') from the edge of the
primary roof for each one foot (1') in height above the primary roof of the
alternative support structure or building. This setback requirement shall not
apply to telecommunications antennas and/or related equipment which are located
above the primary roof of an alternative support structure or building if such
equipment is appropriately screened from view through the use of architectural
panels, walls, fences, or other such screening techniques.
These setback requirements shall not apply to "disguised" telecommunications
towers, antennas and/or related equipment which are mounted to the exterior of
an alternative support structure or building below the primary roofline, but
which do not protrude more than two feet (2') from the side of such alternative
support structure or building.
Telecommunications antennas and/or related equipment proposed for location on
alternative support structures or buildings that are less than fifty feet (50')
in height or which will exceed the height from grade of the alternative support
structure or building by more than twenty five percent (25%), may be permitted
subject to the approval of a special use permit as provided in section
4-15-11, "Variation From General Requirements", of this chapter.
   C.   The onetime replacement of any tower lawfully existing on the effective
date of these regulations or subsequently approved in accordance with these
regulations provided that such replacement tower is: 1) designed to accommodate
the shared use or "collocation" of the tower or site, 2) is located on site and
within fifty feet (50') of the original tower, 3) is replaced by a self-
supporting monopole type tower only, 4) does not exceed the height of the
original tower by more than twenty five percent (25%). Subsequent replacements
or proposed replacement towers that will exceed the requirements of this
subsection may be permitted subject to the approval of a special use permit as
provided in section
4-15-11, "Variation From General Requirements", of this chapter.
   D.   Towers erected and maintained for a period of not more than thirty (30)
days shall be permitted in all zoning districts for the purpose of replacing an
existing tower, testing an existing or proposed telecommunications system or
network, or special events requiring mobile towers.
4-15-10: SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
All proposals to install, build or modify a tower not exempted or otherwise
permitted in section
4-15-8, "Exemptions", or
4-15-9, "Permitted Uses", of this chapter, or any proposals requiring a
variation from these requirements as provided in section
4-15-11, "Variation From General Requirements", of this chapter, including, but
not limited to, tower height, setbacks from property lines, and tower
separation distances, shall require the approval of a special use permit
following a duly advertised public hearing by the Zoning and Planning
Commission. Applications for special use permits shall be filed and processed
subject to the manner provided in chapter 14 of this title.
   A.   General Requirements: Any applicant proposing to construct a new
telecommunications tower shall be required to demonstrate that: 1) the tower
must be located at the proposed site to satisfy its function in the applicant's
telecommunications system or network, 2) the proposed height of the tower is
the minimum height necessary to fulfill the tower's function, and 3) the design
of the proposed tower is such that it can provide for the "collocation" of at
least one other service provider's telecommunications antennas and/or related
equipment.
Applicants shall also demonstrate that they have made a diligent effort to
"collocate" their telecommunications antennas and/or related equipment on
existing towers or usable alternative support structures or buildings, and to
locate the proposed tower, in accordance with the "order of preference"
requirements as established in section
4-15-7, "Site Location Preferences", of this chapter, and that due to physical
constraints and economic or technological feasibility, "collocation" is not
feasible and no other appropriate location for the proposed tower is available.
All applications for a special use permit to construct a new telecommunications
tower shall be considered by the village only upon the applicant having
demonstrated that it is an FCC licensed telecommunications service provider or
that it has agreements with an FCC licensed telecommunications service provider
for use or lease of the proposed tower.
   B.   Required Submittals: In addition to any information required for
applications for special use permits, pursuant to the provisions of chapter 14
of this title as amended, applicants for a special use permit to construct a
new telecommunications tower shall be required to submit the following:
      1.   A detailed site plan (based on a boundary survey or plat of the
parcel and any leased portion thereof, if applicable) clearly indicating all
existing and proposed improvements including, but not limited to: a) the
location, type, and height of the proposed tower, b) on site land uses and
zoning classification, c) adjacent land uses and zoning classification, d)
proposed means of access, e) setbacks from property lines, f) proposed method
of fencing and landscaping, showing specific landscape and fencing materials,
g) elevation drawings of the proposed tower and any other structures, h)
topography, i) parking, j) method of lighting, if applicable or required under
FAA regulations, and k) other information that may be deemed by the Zoning and
Planning Commission or board of trustees to be necessary to assess compliance
with the provisions of these regulations.
      2.   A map of the general area to be served by the proposed tower,
indicating its relationship to other existing towers, structures or buildings,
which are at least seventy five percent (75%) of the proposed design height of
the tower, located within a one-half (1/2) mile radius of the proposed tower
site, which, from a location standpoint, could potentially provide a part of
the applicant's telecommunications system or network.
      3.   Written "technical" evidence attesting to the fact that in order to
satisfy its function in the applicant's telecommunications system or network,
the proposed tower, antenna and/or related equipment must be located at the
proposed site and that it cannot be installed or "collocated" on another
person's tower or usable alternative support structure or building located
within a one-half (1/2) mile radius of the proposed tower site.
      4.   Written "technical" evidence attesting to the fact the proposed
height of the tower, antenna and/or related equipment is the minimum height
necessary to fulfill its function in the applicant's telecommunications system
or network.
      5.   Written "technical" evidence attesting to the fact the proposed
tower, antenna and/or related equipment meets the shared use ("collocation"),
structural integrity, and design requirements as set forth in section
4-15-6, "General Requirements", of this chapter.
      6.   A written statement attesting to the fact that the applicant has
made diligent, but unsuccessful, efforts to obtain permission to install or
"collocate" the applicant's telecommunications antenna and/or related equipment
on existing towers or potentially usable alternative support structures or
buildings, which are at least seventy five percent (75%) of the proposed design
height of the tower, located within a one-half (1/2) mile radius of the
proposed tower site.
      7.   A written statement attesting to the fact that the applicant has
given due consideration to the possibility of "collocating" its
telecommunications antenna and/or related equipment on existing towers or
alternative support structures or buildings, subject to the "order of
preference" as established in section
4-15-7, "Site Location Preferences", of this chapter, and that due to physical,
economic or technological constraints, "collocation" is not feasible.
      8.   A written statement, by the applicant or tower owner, committing to
make the proposed tower (in the event the tower is erected) available for use
by other telecommunications service providers subject to "reasonable"
technological and financial terms. The statement shall include a provision that
the applicant or tower owner is fully aware that the wilful and knowing failure
of the applicant or tower owner to agree to shared use or "collocation" or to
negotiate in good faith with potential users shall be unlawful and shall, among
other remedies of the village, be cause for the withholding of the requested
special use permit or any such future special use or building permits to the
same applicant or tower owner to install, build or modify telecommunications
towers within the village.
      9.   Written proof of liability insurance in an amount which is
satisfactory to the village and with the village of Oak Lawn named as an
additional insured.
      10.   A general description of how the proposed tower is in compliance
with the standards set forth in these regulations and all applicable federal,
state or local laws, and that the construction and use of the proposed tower
will not interfere with public safety communications and the usual and
customary transmission or reception of radio, television, or other
communications services enjoyed by adjacent properties.
      11.   In order to assist in evaluating visual impact, the applicant shall
submit photo simulations showing the proposed site of the tower with a
photorealistic representation of the proposed tower as it would appear as
viewed from the closest residential property and from adjacent public rights of
way.
      12.   The Zoning and Planning Commission or board of trustees may require
an applicant to supplement any information that it considers inadequate or that
the applicant has failed to supply. A special use permit may be denied on the
basis that the applicant has not satisfactorily supplied the information
required in this section.
   C.   Findings: Findings relating to a proposal to install, build or
significantly modify a telecommunications tower shall be made by the Zoning and
Planning Commission, as provided in this subsection, and no special use permit
for a new tower shall be approved by the board of trustees unless the applicant
has clearly demonstrated, by substantive evidence, that due consideration has
been given to "collocate" the applicant's telecommunications antenna and/or
related equipment on existing towers or alternative support structures or the
placement of the proposed tower on property owned by the village or other
governmental agency or public utility, in accordance with the "order of
preference" requirements established in section
4-15-7, "Site Location Preferences", of this chapter, and that such
alternatives are not technologically or economically feasible. Current or
emerging industry standards and practices, among other information, may be
considered by the board in determining feasibility.
In consideration of the issuance of a special use permit to install, build or
significantly modify a telecommunications tower, the Zoning and Planning
Commission shall base their recommendation and the village board shall base
their decision upon the applicant having demonstrated, by substantive evidence,
the following:
      1.   That in siting the proposed tower, the applicant has given due
consideration to the "order of preference" as established in section
4-15-7, "Site Location Preferences", of this chapter.
      2.   That no existing towers, structures or buildings located within the
necessary geographic area of the proposed tower meets the applicant's
engineering requirements considering the height, structural strength, resulting
signal interference, feasibility of retrofitting or of redesigning the
applicant's or service provider's telecommunications system or network, or
other limiting conditions that may render any potentially usable towers,
structures or buildings, existing within the applicant's required geographic
area, technologically unsuitable.
      3.   That the fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the land
or tower owner in order to share or "collocate" on an existing tower or
alternative support structure or building or to adopt an existing tower for
shared use or "collocation" are economically unreasonable.
      4.   That no land, buildings or structures owned by the village or other
governmental agency or public utility is available and economically and
technologically suitable for locating the proposed tower.
      5.   That an alternative technology, that does not require the use of new
towers, is technologically or economically unsuitable.
      6.   That the proposed tower meets the shared use or "collocation"
requirements established in section
4-15-6, "General Requirements", of this chapter.
If any one, but not more than one, of the above determinations is not
satisfied, approval of the special use permit may be granted only upon a
finding of unique circumstances otherwise necessitating approval to satisfy the
purposes of these regulations.
4-15-11: VARIATION FROM GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Notwithstanding the requirements provided in these regulations, a variation
from these requirements, including, but not limited to, tower height, setbacks
from property lines, and tower separation distances, may be approved by the
board of trustees upon recommendation of the Zoning and Planning Commission, as
a special use, in accordance with the requirements of this section and the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title.
   A.   Required Submittals: In addition to the application requirements for a
special use permit and the required submittals for a new tower, if applicable,
applications for a variation from the requirements of these regulations shall
also include the following:
      1.   A description of how the proposed variation addresses any adverse
impact that might occur as a result of approving the variation.
      2.   A description of any off site or on site factors which may mitigate
any adverse impacts which might occur as a result of approving the variation.
      3.   Written "technical" evidence that documents and supports the
information submitted by the applicant upon which the request for variation is
based. The technical evidence shall be certified by an engineer and shall
document the existence of the facts related to the proposed variation(s) and
its relationship to surrounding rights of way and properties.
   B.   Findings: The Zoning and Planning Commission and board of trustees
shall consider an application for a variation from the requirements of these
regulations based upon the following determinations:
      1.   That the proposed tower, antenna or telecommunications equipment, as
it differs from the requirements of these regulations, will be compatible with
and not adversely impact the character and integrity of surrounding properties;
and
      2.   That off site or on site conditions exist which will mitigate the
adverse impacts, if any, created by the proposed variation.
In addition to the requirements of this subsection, in the following cases, the
applicant must also demonstrate the following:
         a.   That in the case of a requested variation from the "setback"
requirements of section
4-15-6, "General Requirements", of this chapter for new towers, that the
setback requirement cannot be met on the parcel of land upon which the tower is
proposed to be located and the alternative for the applicant is to locate the
tower at another site which is closer in proximity to residentially used land.
         b.   That in the case of a request for variation from the "tower
separation" requirements of section
4-15-6, "General Requirements", of this chapter the applicant has provided
technical evidence that the proposed telecommunications tower, antenna and/or
related equipment must be located at the proposed site in order to meet the
coverage requirements of the applicant's telecommunications system or network,
and that the applicant is willing to create approved landscaping and other such
buffers to adequately screen the tower from neighboring property.
         c.   That in the case of a request for variation from the "height"
limitation requirements of section
4-15-6, "General Requirements", of this chapter for new towers, that the height
variation is necessary to meet the coverage requirements of the applicant's
telecommunications system or network, and the height of the proposed tower is
the minimum height required to function satisfactorily.
         d.   That in the case of a request for variation from the "height"
limitation requirements of section
4-15-9, "Permitted Uses", of this chapter for telecommunications antennas and/
or related equipment, proposed for location above the roofline of an
alternative support structure or building, the height variation is necessary to
facilitate the shared use or "collocation" of telecommunications antennas and/
or equipment in order to avoid construction of a new tower.
   C.   Other Conditions: The Zoning and Planning Commission or board of
trustees may include conditions on the site where the telecommunications tower,
antenna and/or related equipment is to be located if such conditions are deemed
necessary to preserve the character and integrity of the neighboring properties
affected by the proposal and to mitigate any adverse impacts which may arise in
connection with the approval of the variation.
4-15-12: CERTIFICATIONS AND INSPECTIONS:
All towers shall be certified by an engineer to be structurally sound and in
conformance with the requirements of the building codes adopted by the village
and all other construction standards set forth by federal and state law. For
new towers, such certification shall be submitted upon completion of
construction of the tower, and every five (5) years thereafter. For existing
towers, certification shall be submitted within one hundred eighty (180) days
of the effective date of these regulations and then every five (5) years
thereafter. The tower owner may be required by the village to submit more
frequent certifications should there be reason to believe that the structural
and/or electrical integrity of the tower is jeopardized.
The village and its employees and/or agents shall have authority to enter onto
the property upon which a tower is located, between the inspections and
certifications required above, to inspect the tower for the purpose of
determining whether it complies with the village's adopted building codes and
all other construction standards adopted by the village, and all applicable
federal and state laws. The village shall reserve the right to conduct such
inspections at any time, upon reasonable notice to the tower owner. All
expenses related to such inspections by the village shall be borne by the tower
owner.
4-15-13: MAINTENANCE:
Tower owners shall at all times employ ordinary and reasonable care and shall
install and maintain in use nothing less than commonly accepted methods and
devices for preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage,
injuries, or nuisances to the public. Towers, telecommunications antennas and/
or equipment, including wires, cables, fixtures, and other equipment shall be
maintained in substantial compliance with the requirements of the national
electric code (NEC) and all federal, state, and local regulations, and in such
manner that will not interfere with the use of other property, and shall at all
times be kept and maintained in good condition, order, and repair so that the
same shall not menace or endanger the life or property of any person.
4-15-14: ABANDONMENT:
In the event that the use of a tower is discontinued, the tower owner shall
provide written notice to the village of its intent to discontinue use not less
than ten (10) days from the date when the use will be discontinued. Upon
discontinuance of the use of the tower, the tower owner shall, within ninety
(90) days, dismantle and remove the tower at the owner's expense. If it is
determined by the village any tower has ceased to be used for a period of three
hundred sixty five (365) consecutive days, and the tower owner has not notified
the village of the discontinuance of use, as required in this section, the
village shall notify the tower owner that the site will be subject to a
determination that such site has been abandoned. The tower owner shall have
thirty (30) days from receipt of said notice to show, by a preponderance of the
evidence, that the tower has been in use or under repair during the period. If
the tower owner fails to show that the tower has been in use or under repair
during the period, the village shall issue a final determination of abandonment
for the site. Upon issuance of the final determination of abandonment, the
tower owner shall, within ninety (90) days, dismantle and remove the tower at
the owner's expense. (Ord. 10-08-11, 19-16-66)
CHAPTER 16
TEMPORARY OVERNIGHT SHELTERS
SECTION:
4-16-1: Purpose
4-16-2: Definitions
4-16-3: Special Use Permit
4-16-4: License Required
4-16-5: Application For License
4-16-6: Inspection
4-16-7: Standards For Issuance Of License
4-16-8: Annual License
4-16-9: License Revocation
4-16-10: Appeals
4-16-11: Violations
4-16-12: Maximum Number Of Occupants
4-16-13: Admission Agreement
4-16-14: Records And Reports
4-16-15: Separation Of Sleeping Areas
4-16-16: Not-For-Profit
4-16-17: Days And Hours Of Operation
4-16-18: Medical Care
4-16-19: Staff
4-16-20: Means Of Egress
4-16-21: Evacuation Diagram To Be Posted
4-16-22: Prohibited Items
4-16-23: Automatic Fire Alarm
4-16-24: Fire Extinguishers
4-16-25: Sanitary Requirements
4-16-26: Location
4-16-27: Penalty For Violations
4-16-28: Compliance With Local Codes
4-16-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations are to regulate the placement, construction
and modification of multi-family residences and to support, foster, and
establish standards for licensing and regulation of facilities to provide
shelter to persons who are temporarily without permanent housing. Such
facilities are designed to provide shelter on an emergency and temporary basis
and not intended to be permanent residences or a substitute for permanent
residences.
4-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: A person that submits to the Village Manager an application for a
license or the renewal of a license to conduct, operate or maintain a shelter
under this chapter.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
TEMPORARY OVERNIGHT SHELTER: A building, or portion thereof, in which sleeping
accommodations are provided for no more than twelve (12) hours per day, for
three (3) or more persons who are not related to the owner, operator, manager
or other occupants thereof by blood or marriage. Temporary overnight shelter
shall not include any hotel or motel, hospital, nursing or personal care
facility, single-family dwelling, two (2) family dwelling or multiple-family
dwelling as those terms are described in this Code.
4-16-3: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
For a temporary overnight shelter sought to be established after December 1,
2017, a special use permit shall be required for the placement of a temporary
overnight shelter in the R-3 Multi- Family Residence District. The application
for a special use shall be made by both the owner of the premises and any other
entity providing significant programming support for the temporary overnight
shelter pursuant to following the requirements found in section
4-14-2 of this title. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
this chapter, the special use requirements of this chapter shall not apply or
be imposed upon any currently existing temporary overnight shelter following
the passage of this chapter.
4-16-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct, operate, maintain or permit to be conducted, temporary
overnight shelters, operation or maintenance of a shelter for the temporarily
homeless within the Village unless the Village has issued a license as provided
for in this chapter and which is in full force and effect. For all existing
temporary overnight shelters operating in the Village of Oak Lawn after the
passage of this chapter, said temporary overnight shelters shall have until
October 1, 2018 to apply for a license.
4-16-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for such license shall be made to the Village Manager or his/her
designee in such form and manner as may be prescribed by said Village Manager
or his/her designee. The application shall be under oath and shall contain:
   A.   The location of the premises for which a license is sought;
   B.   The proposed maximum number of persons to be housed in the shelter;
   C.   The name and address of the applicant if an individual, and if a firm,
partnership, corporation or association, the principal address of the entity
and name and address of its officers;
   D.   The name of the person(s) under whose management or supervision the
shelter will be conducted;
   E.   The date of special use approval or the date on which an application
for special use was filed with the Village, if application is pending or the
date on which the Village Board approved an exemption from that requirement;
   F.   A statement that it will maintain a policy of making reasonable efforts
to accommodate persons previously residing in the Village of Oak Lawn;
   G.   Guidelines to be utilized for operation of shelter (including but not
limited to such policies as admission criteria, procedures for linkage with
social service agencies, and procedures for termination of stay).
Within fourteen (14) days following a filing of an application, an applicant
shall arrange for an inspection of the temporary overnight shelter by the Oak
Lawn fire inspector for the purpose of identifying and determining an occupancy
limit for said temporary overnight shelter.
4-16-6: INSPECTION:
Upon receipt of an application for a license hereunder, the Village Manager or
his/her designee shall cause an inspection to be made of the proposed shelter
pursuant to section
3-1-4 of this Code. The applicant shall afford the representative of the
Village's departments reasonable opportunity to inspect the applicant's
location for which the license is requested and to interview the applicant's
agents and employees and any other person within his/her or its custody or
control in the particular premises for which a license is being requested.
During the term of licensure, the Village Manager or his/her designee may
conduct inspections of the shelter following a 24-hour notice to licensee.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this chapter, the initial
inspection requirements of this chapter shall not apply or be imposed upon any
currently existing temporary overnight shelter following the passage of this
chapter.
4-16-7: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon completion of such inspection, and a review of the application, the
Village Manager or his/her designee shall issue an appropriate license to the
applicant for the shelter providing the Village Manager or his/her designee
finds and determines that the applicant meets the minimum standards of the
Fire, Building and Public Health Codes and that such conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
4-16-8: ANNUAL LICENSE:
The Village Manager or his/her designee shall provide for the issuance and
renewal of licenses for shelters. The licenses shall be issued on forms
prescribed by the Village Manager. Each license, whether an original or a
renewal license, shall expire at the end of one year from the date of its
issuance (which date of expiration shall be stated upon its face) unless sooner
revoked or surrendered. Licenses shall not be transferable either as to place
or as to person. The license shall be displayed in a conspicuous place near the
main entrance inside the shelter.
4-16-9: LICENSE REVOCATION:
Whenever the Village Manager or his/her designee determines that a violation
has occurred which endangers or threatens the life, health, safety or welfare
of the shelter's occupants, the licensee or its employees or agents, or the
community, the Village Manager or his/her designee shall revoke the shelter's
license by providing twenty four (24) hours' written notice to the shelter, or
by taking summary action. Where determined necessary, said notice shall contain
an order for evacuation of the occupants, immediate correction of the violation
(s) or such other measures which the Village Manager or his/her designee
determines to be required.
The Village Manager or his/her designee may revoke the license of a shelter for
any violation that is uncorrected within seven (7) days following notice of
said violation. If after seven (7) days allowed for the abatement of a
violation, the Village Manager or his/her designee may revoke a license for
failure to abate said violation. The Village Manager or his/her designee may
also revoke the license of a shelter for repeated violations.
4-16-10: APPEALS:
Whenever the Village Manager or his/her designee refuses to issue a license,
renew a license or revokes a license for a shelter, the person aggrieved shall
have the right to appeal the decision of the Village Manager or his/her
designee to the Village Board of Trustees, or has the right to request the
Village Manager or his/her designee to reconsider his/her decision. The Village
Board of Trustees shall grant such person a reasonable opportunity to present
in writing, or at the Village Board of Trustees' option in an open hearing,
his/her arguments against such decision. The Village Board of Trustees shall
consider such arguments and pertinent facts and shall provide a brief response
to the appeal within ten (10) days. The decision of the Village Board of
Trustees with respect to such appeal or reconsideration shall be final.
4-16-11: VIOLATIONS:
The Village Manager or his/her designee shall have authority to issue written
notices of violations to licensee specifying the particular violations and the
time allowed for correction.
4-16-12: MAXIMUM NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS:
Unless otherwise restricted by the special use permit granted for a specified
shelter, or unless specifically exempted from this regulation by the Village
Board, the maximum number of occupants permitted is to be determined by the Oak
Lawn fire inspector. The maximum occupancy limit shall be displayed in a
conspicuous place near the main entrance inside the shelter.
4-16-13: ADMISSION AGREEMENT:
No owner, operator, or manager of a shelter shall allow a person to occupy a
shelter unless said person has signed an agreement stating that he/she
understands that the stay is for a temporary period, and does not intend the
shelter to be a permanent residence.
4-16-14: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
Every licensee shall be required to keep and maintain a record, for a period of
seven (7) years, data including but not limited to a list of names of all
persons who stay overnight at the shelter and the dates of stay.
4-16-15: SEPARATION OF SLEEPING AREAS:
Separate sleeping areas shall be provided for men, women, and parents with
children, if applicable. Children under the age of seventeen (17) shall be
accompanied by one parent in a separate sleeping area.
4-16-16: NOT-FOR-PROFIT:
No person shall own, operate or manage a temporary overnight shelter except on
a not-for-profit basis or without charge to the temporary overnight shelter's
occupants.
4-16-17: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
A temporary overnight shelter may operate on and between the days of October 1
and April 30 and between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. In the event of inclement weather, safety or traffic flow
concerns, the operating manager may temporarily extend the operating days or
hours of temporary overnight shelters once per forty eight (48) hours per site
provided that such extension does not extend the permitted days of operation by
more than seven (7) days or the hours of operation for more than seventy two
(72) consecutive hours. No owner, operator or manager of a temporary overnight
shelter shall allow any person to remain in the temporary overnight shelter for
a period in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours, exclusive of the above
temporary extensions.
4-16-18: MEDICAL CARE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to provide, as part of the regular
accommodations or services of any temporary overnight shelter, any medical care
or treatment, nursing care or other health-related care. Nothing contained
within this section shall prohibit any person from obtaining emergency medical
care or treatment for any occupant of a temporary overnight shelter in the
event of an emergency. Any treatment related to counseling services and the
administration of flu shots by licensed professionals may be excluded from the
prohibitions in this section.
4-16-19: STAFF:
Each temporary overnight shelter shall be staffed with at least two (2) persons
on duty and awake during operating hours. One of these persons shall be
designated as night supervisor and shall be responsible for administration of
the shelter during this time period.
4-16-20: MEANS OF EGRESS:
Temporary overnight shelters shall provide means of egress in accordance with
section
4-14-7 of this title.
4-16-21: EVACUATION DIAGRAM TO BE POSTED:
A diagram illustrating evacuation of the floor and of the temporary overnight
shelter in the event of an emergency shall be posted on each floor of the
temporary overnight shelter. The diagram shall measure no less than twenty
inches (20") square, and shall be posted in a place and manner where it will be
readily visible to occupants.
4-16-22: PROHIBITED ITEMS:
No person shall use smoking materials in any temporary overnight shelter. No
owner, operator, or manager shall knowingly allow a shelter occupant to bring
weapons, alcohol, or unprescribed drugs into the shelter.
4-16-23: AUTOMATIC FIRE ALARM:
   A.   It shall be the responsibility of the alarm user to install, test,
inspect and maintain an approved fire alarm system in an operative condition at
all times, in compliance with all Village adopted codes including the
International Building Code, 2012 edition, the International Fire Code, 2012
edition and the NFPA 72 - National Fire Alarm Code, 2010 edition.
   B.   An approved fire alarm system shall consist of smoke detectors, heat
detectors, manual alarm-initiating devices, sprinkler water flow detectors and
tamper switches (if applicable), audible and visible notification appliances
and annunciation at Fire Department point of entry. The approved fire alarm
system shall provide complete coverage of the building and shall comply with
all applicable codes.
In addition:
      1.   Addressable fire alarm systems shall be installed, unless other
application/installation approved by the Fire Code official.
      2.   Visible notification appliances shall remain active (flashing) when
the automatic and manual fire alarm system is silenced.
      3.   Exterior waterproof visible notification appliance shall be
installed in an approved location on the address-side of the building or other
location approved by the Fire Code official.
      4.   Activated duct smoke detectors shall initiate a supervisory signal
at a constantly attended location.
      5.   An approved key box shall be installed according to the following:
         a.   An approved key box shall be installed on all commercial
buildings and all Group R-2 occupancies containing three (3) or more dwelling
units. The key box shall be obtained from the Fire Department's designated
agent, and shall contain keys to gain necessary access as required by the Fire
Code official.
         b.   The key box shall be installed in an approved location in close
proximity to the main entrance or where readily accessible and immediately
available for use by Fire Department personnel. The bottom of the key box shall
be mounted no less than sixty inches (60") from ground level and the top of the
key box shall be mounted no more than seventy two inches (72") from ground
level.
      6.   A detailed zone/device map shall be posted next to the fire alarm
control panel and annunciator panel (if applicable). A copy of said maps shall
be submitted to the Fire Department for approval. An acceptable zone map shall
include the following information:
         a.   Minimum size of 81/2" x 11" and shall be clear and legible.
         b.   Framed and mounted or protected by other acceptable means.
         c.   Simplified floor plan map showing zone/device locations.
         d.   Map shall indicate location of alarm panel and annunciator panels
and all addressable devices and related controls. If symbols are used, a symbol
legend shall be provided.
      7.   Approved fire alarm systems shall be installed in compliance with
the NFPA 70 - National Electrical Code (NEC), 2011 edition.
Exception: The installation of an approved automatic fire alarm system in all
educational occupancies, institutional occupancy Groups I-2, I-3 and I-4 and
any other occupancy deemed necessary by the AHJ shall be enclosed completely
within metallic conduit.
      8.   All approved fire alarm systems shall transmit trouble, supervisory,
and fire signals directly to the Oak Lawn Emergency Communications Center
remote supervising station via a wireless radio transceiver installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 - National Fire Alarm Code, 2010 edition
and International Building Code, chapter 9 - fire protection systems, 2012
edition. All alarm contractors, alarm businesses and alarm supervising stations
shall be approved by the Fire Code official.
   C.   The fire alarm contractor supervising the automatic fire alarm system
design and installation shall be licensed by the State of Illinois Department
of Professional Regulations, per the Illinois Private Detective, Private Alarm,
Private Security and Locksmith Act of 1983.
4-16-24: FIRE EXTINGUISHERS:
Fire extinguishers shall be installed and maintained in each temporary
overnight shelter in accordance with the standards established by the
International Fire Code and section
7-3-1 of this Code.
4-16-25: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
Each temporary overnight shelter shall provide a minimum of one bathroom.
4-16-26: LOCATION:
A temporary overnight shelter shall be placed within the R-3 Multi-Family
Residence District. The temporary overnight shelter shall also be subject to
the requirements in chapter 5, article C of this title. No temporary overnight
shelter shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of any other
temporary overnight shelter unless the Village makes a specific finding that
the cumulative effect of such location would not adversely affect the
surrounding neighborhood. Each temporary overnight shelter shall be designed so
that the entrances and exits, exterior lighting, and parking facilities will
minimize traffic congestion, pedestrian hazards, and adverse impacts on
adjoining properties. The amount of noise to be generated shall not interfere
with the quiet use and enjoyment of neighboring properties. A temporary
overnight shelter shall not be located within five hundred feet (500') of a
child day care, nursery school or grammar school. Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary contained in this chapter, the location requirements of this
chapter shall not apply or be imposed upon any currently existing temporary
overnight shelter following the passage of this chapter.
4-16-27: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each such violation. Each day that a violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
These provisions shall not apply to use of a premises for occasional overnight
events sponsored by the organization that owns the premises.
4-16-28: COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL CODES:
The premises used as shelters as defined herein shall comply with the Fire,
Building and Public Health Codes for the type of structure being utilized and
with any other requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 17-20-72)
CHAPTER 17
SHORT-TERM RENTALS
SECTION:
4-17-1: Purpose
4-17-2: Short-Term Rentals Prohibited
4-17-3: Penalty
4-17-1: PURPOSE:
Short-term rentals are prohibited in the Village. The purpose of prohibiting
short-term rentals in all zoning districts is to better protect the public's
health, safety and welfare, given the myriad of issues this use presented in
the Village of Oak Lawn during the times in which short-term rentals were
permitted. (Ord. 22-16-54)
4-17-2: SHORT-TERM RENTALS PROHIBITED:
Short-term rentals are prohibited in all zoning districts. No person shall rent
or offer for rent any short-term rental in the Village. (Ord. 22-16-54)
4-17-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) for each such violation. Each day that a violation continues to
exist shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 22-16-54)
TITLE 5
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Title
5-1-2: Purpose
5-1-3: Scope of Regulations
5-1-4: Authority
5-1-5: Definitions
5-1-6: Incorporation and Conformance with Village Plan
5-1-7: Sale or Lease of Lot
5-1-8: Construction Prerequisites
5-1-9: Subdivision and Street Names
5-1-10: Variations
5-1-11: Appeals
5-1-12: Copies of Provisions, Fee
5-1-13: Penalty
5-1-1: TITLE:
The regulations contained in this Title shall be referred to officially as THE
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS OF THE VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN, ILLINOIS, and the term
"regulations" or "subdivision regulations", when used in this Title, shall mean
and shall have the force and effect of ordinance provisions of the Village.
(Ord. 79-2-5)
5-1-2: PURPOSE:
In order to promote the realization of the Comprehensive Zoning Plan of the
Village, as adopted in 1963 and subsequent amendments and revisions thereto,
hereinafter referred to as the "Official Plan" of the Village; in order to
provide reasonable requirements for public streets, community facilities and
other public grounds; in order to provide for the health, safety, comfort and
convenience of the residents of the Village and contiguous territory; and, in
order that developers of land may have a procedural guide, the regulations
contained herein establishing reasonable standards of design and procedure for
subdivision of land and of areas subject to redevelopment within the Village
and contiguous unincorporated territory are hereby adopted as part of the
Official Plan of the Village. (Ord. 79-2-5)
5-1-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
This Title shall be applicable to all subdivisions and resubdivisions of land
and areas subject to redevelopment within the corporate limits of the Village,
and contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half (11/2)
miles beyond the corporate limits of the Village and not included in any other
municipality. (Ord. 79-2-5)
5-1-4: AUTHORITY:
Authority for the administration of this Title shall be vested in the Zoning
and Planning Commission of the Village. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-
9-24, 19-16-66)
5-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Title, certain words and phrases used herein are hereby
defined. Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular
number shall include the plural, and the plural the singular; the word "shall"
is mandatory and is not directory; the word "may" is discretionary, and the
word "person" includes firm, association, trust, organization, partnership,
company or corporation, as well as an individual. Wherever the masculine gender
is used it shall also include the feminine and the neuter. Unless otherwise
stated, the requirements of this Title are minimum requirements.
ALLEY: A minor public right of way used primarily for vehicular service access
to the rear or side of properties.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and
public parks, railroad rights of way or shorelines of waterways.
BUFFER: A zone, area or strip used to separate uses or to serve as a protective
barrier between uses. For the purposes of this Title, there are three (3) types
of buffers:
   A.   Buffer Zone: Area used to separate uses.
Example: An area used to develop distance or barriers between a shopping center
and a residential area.
   B.   Transitional Zone: An area which gradually decreases intensity of use.
Example: Decreasing from a commercial use to a multi-family use to single-
family use. The reduction may be in height, bulk and density.
   C.   Buffer Strip: A narrow strip of land used for the erection of a barrier
or landscaping where areas of different zoning are contiguous.
Example: A landscaped and fenced area where a commercial zone abuts a residence
zone.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: The line indicating the minimum horizontal distance
between the property lines, which provides pedestrian access to adjacent
properties.
CROSSWALKWAY: A public right of way, ten feet (10') or more in width, between
property lines, which provides pedestrian access to adjacent properties.
CUL-DE-SAC: A short street having one end open to traffic and being terminated
at the other end by a vehicular turnaround.
DIRECTOR OF OFFICE OF QUALITY CONTROL: The Director of Office of Quality
Control of the Village.
EASEMENT: A grant or declaration by the owner of a tract of land for the use of
his land by others, for specific purposes.
FINAL PLAT: The final map or drawing on which the subdivision plan is submitted
to the Zoning and Planning Commission for approval and, which, if approved by
the Zoning and Planning Commission and the Board of Trustees, will be submitted
by the Village to the County Recorder of Deeds and/or Registrar of Titles for
recording. The final plat must be prepared by a registered Illinois land
surveyor.
FRONTAGE: All property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting one side between an
intersecting street and the dead end of the street. On a corner lot, the
frontage is the side with the lesser dimension.
IMPROVEMENTS: Any street and alley grading and surfacing, curbs and gutters,
grading and surfacing of off-street parking spaces, sidewalks, sanitary sewage
facilities, water mains and hydrants and storm water drainage facilities; and
shall also include street signs, street lights, driveways, roadway parkway
strips, crosswalkways, landscaping and plantings, survey monuments, compacted
fill or any other facility contemplated by the final plat for any subdivision
in compliance with all applicable Municipal regulations and ordinances.
MAJOR STREET PLAN: A part of the Official Plan showing the location and
dimensions of principal thoroughfares.
OFFICIAL PLAN: The Comprehensive Zoning Plan (and amendments thereto) or any
portion thereof made and adopted by the Village President and Board of Trustees
in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois and the ordinances of the
Village, indicating the general or specific locations recommended for streets,
parks, public buildings, zoning districts and all other public improvements.
OWNER: Title holder of record or any other legal entity having legal interest
in title to the land sought to be subdivided under this Title.
PARKWAY STRIP: A strip of land between the roadway and the sidewalk or sidewalk
site.
PRELIMINARY LAYOUT: The preliminary map or drawing on which the proposed layout
of subdivision is submitted to the Zoning and Planning Commission
consideration.
PROPOSED LOT: A portion of a proposed subdivision intended as a unit for
transfer of ownership or for development.
PUBLIC LAND: Any land set aside by a unit of government or by a subdivider or
developer, for use as parks, playgrounds, and such other public uses as
determined by that unit of government for the use and enjoyment of the general
public.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a road,
crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water
main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another special use. The usage of
the term "right of way" for land platting purposes in the Village shall mean
that every right of way hereafter established and shown on a final recorded
plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such
right of way and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or
parcels. Rights of way intended for roads, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary
sewers, storm drains, or any other use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated or granted to public use by the maker of the plat on which
such right of way is established.
ROADWAY: The portions of a street available for vehicular traffic; where curbs
are laid, the portion between curbs.
SIDE YARD: An open, unoccupied space on a lot located between a proposed or
existing building and the sideline of the lot and extending from the street
line to the rear lot line.
SIDEWALK: The portion of a street or crosswalkway, paved with concrete (or
otherwise surfaced), intended for pedestrian use only.
STREET: A public right of way which affords a primary means of access to
abutting properties, whether designated as a street, avenue, highway, road,
boulevard, lane, throughway or however otherwise designated, but excepting
driveways to buildings.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the property lines which delineates
the right of way of a street.
STREETS, FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION:
   Street, Collector: A street which carries traffic from minor streets to a
thoroughfare, including the principal entrance streets of a residential
development, and the principal circulating streets within such development.
   Street, Half: A street bordering one or more property lines of a tract of
land in which the subdivider has allocated only a part of the ultimate right of
way width.
   Street, Major: A street of great continuity, which serves or is intended to
serve as a principal trafficway for fast or heavy traffic and which taken
together, comprise the basic structure of the street system of the Village and
surrounding area.
   Street, Marginal Access: A minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to
a thoroughfare or major street, and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
   Street, Minor: A street of limited continuity, which serves or is intended
to serve primarily for access to the abutting properties.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person, trust, financial association or corporation acting as a
unit or any agent thereof, proposing to divide land so as to constitute a
subdivision as defined herein.
SUBDIVISION: The division or dividing of any tract or parcel of land into one
or more lots for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or for building development; provided, however, that the division of
land into parcels of more than five (5) acres, not involving any change in
street lines or public easements, shall not be deemed a subdivision within the
meaning of these regulations. The term includes resubdivision and, where
appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to
the land subdivided. Application for permit to construct one or more additional
dwellings on a parcel or tract of land where one or more dwellings already
exists, shall be construed as a building development envisioning future
transfer of ownership, and shall be regarded as a subdivision.
VILLAGE: The Village of Oak Lawn, a Municipal corporation.
VILLAGE BOARD: The Village President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Oak Lawn.
ZONING AND PLANNING COMMISSION: The Zoning and Planning Commission of the
Village. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-12-19, 81-36-78, 87-22-90, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-
66
5-1-6: INCORPORATION AND CONFORMANCE WITH VILLAGE PLAN:
   A.   This Title is hereby made a part of the Official Plan of the Village.
   B.   The subdivision shall conform to the Official Plan or the portions
thereof existing, and shall not encroach upon areas designated in the Official
Plan for future public facilities. (Ord. 79-2-5)
5-1-7: SALE OR LEASE OF LOT:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale or lease or to lease for any
time exceeding five (5) years, any lot or block within the Village or within
any contiguous unincorporated territory within one and one-half (11/2) miles of
the corporate limits of the Village before all the requirements of this Title
have been complied with. (Ord. 79-2-5)
5-1-8: CONSTRUCTION PREREQUISITES:
   A.   All parcels of land not (re)subdivided in accordance with these
provisions prior to the enactment of this Title shall be (re)subdivided prior
to development or construction of buildings or structures thereon, in
accordance with this Title.
   B.   No grading, building or construction of any kind relating to
development of land, within the definition of "subdivision", shall be started
except in accordance with this Title.
   C.   Construction of improvements shall be in accordance with this Title and
the standard specifications for construction as promulgated by the Village.
   D.   Construction of buildings and dwellings shall be started only after
issuance of building permits, and no building permit shall be issued prior to
recording of the final plat in the manner hereinafter provided. (Ord. 79-2-5)
5-1-9: SUBDIVISION AND STREET NAMES:
The name of the subdivision and new street names shall not duplicate, nor too
closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other subdivision or street
within or near the Village, but shall provide for continuity of existing street
names in all applicable cases.Street names shall be subject to the approval of
the Zoning and Planning Commission the Board of Trustees 1 . (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-
36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-19.
5-1-10: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Generally: The Village Board may authorize the waiving of any
provisions of this Title, or may grant a departure from the specific
requirements contained herein, if any hardships or unique circumstances have
been demonstrated in writing by the owner of the property in question.
Consideration under this provision will only be on a case-by-case basis, in
writing. Said authorization shall not be considered as establishing a
precedent.
   B.   Design And Improvement Variations: Variations and exceptions from the
design and dimensional standards and improvement requirements of these
regulations may be made by the Zoning and Planning Commission cases where,
owing to exceptional conditions, there are extreme difficulties or hardships in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of these regulations. Resubdivision
of a single parcel of platted block of an old subdivision shall be considered
an exceptional condition meriting departure from the strict letter of these
regulations. No variation or exception shall be made that will be detrimental
to the public welfare, or that will adversely affect the Official Plan. (Ords.
79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66
5-1-11: APPEALS:
   A.   Any party aggrieved by any decision of the Zoning and Planning
Commission, within thirty (30) days thereafter, appeal therefrom to the Village
Board and he shall file with the Village Clerk a written notice of appeal
specifying the decision from which such appeal is taken.
   B.   Upon receiving notice of appeal, the Zoning and Planning Commission
shall transmit to the Board of Trustees an official copy of the minutes and
other supporting data in the case upon which the appeal is taken.
   C.   The Village Clerk shall schedule the appeal for appearance before the
Village Board at the earliest reasonable meeting date which shall occur not
less than seven (7) days, nor more than thirty (30) days after receipt of the
appeal.
   D.   The Village Board shall take action on the appeal within sixty (60)
days from its initial consideration. In the event the Village Board fails to
act on the appeal within this sixty (60) day period, the matter shall be
considered denied. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
5-1-12: COPIES OF PROVISIONS, FEE:
Copies of this Title shall be made available at the Village office for purchase
by any interested person at a cost of ten dollars ($10.00) per copy. (Ord. 79-
2-5)
5-1-13: PENALTY:
Any person, or agents, employees, or contractors of such, who violates,
disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists enforcement
of any provision of this Title shall be subject to a fine of not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense; and each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ords. 79-2-5, 99-5-11)
CHAPTER 2
PLATTING PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Preliminary Consultations
5-2-2: Preliminary Plat
5-2-2-1: Submission
5-2-2-2: Form And Required Information
5-2-2-3: Approval Procedure
5-2-2-4: Effective Period Of Approval
5-2-2-5: Fees
5-2-3: Final Plat
5-2-3-1: Submission
5-2-3-2: Form And Required Information
5-2-3-3: Accompanying Documents
5-2-3-4: Approval And Acceptance
5-2-3-5: Withdrawal Of Plat
5-2-3-6: Fees
5-2-3-7: Samples Of Required Documents
5-2-4: Plats Of Consolidation
5-2-1: PRELIMINARY CONSULTATIONS:
While the subdivision plan is still in sketch form, the subdivider may consult
with the Village staff to determine conformity to the Official Plan, including
the Major Street Plan, the Zoning Title 1 , and compliance with this Title and
with other Village ordinances not in conflict herewith. (Ord. 79-2-5)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 4 of this Code.
5-2-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
Prior to the completion of the final survey of streets and lots of any
subdivision, and before any map of the subdivision is made in form suitable for
recording, a preliminary layout, prepared in accordance with the regulations
set forth herein, shall be submitted to the Zoning and Planning Commission for
its review and recommendations. In the event a proposed subdivision complies
with the provisions contained herein, the subdivider shall have the option to
concurrently submit his request for consideration of both the preliminary and
final plats of subdivision. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-
66)
5-2-2-1: SUBMISSION:
   A.   If any of the property within a subdivision is in a land trust, then an
"affidavit of disclosure of property interest" must be filed at the time of
application for preliminary approval 1  on the form provided by the Village.
   B.   If the subdivider is someone other than the owner of record, a proper
letter of authorization to proceed with the application must be presented at
the time of filing for preliminary approval. Said letter must state the legal
description of the property and have affixed the signature of the owner.
   C.   An application in writing in quadruplicate for the preliminary approval
of the subdivision, together with fifteen (15) prints of the preliminary
layout, shall be filed in the Village offices at least five (5) calendar days
prior to the next regular meeting of the Zoning and Planning Commission to
receive action at such meeting.
   D.   The Zoning and Planning Commission shall determine, on the advice of
the staff, whether the preliminary layout is in proper form, and shall not
receive or consider the application as filed until all documents are in
accordance with the requirements set forth herein. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-
11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 405/2.
5-2-2-2: FORM AND REQUIRED INFORMATION:
The preliminary layout tracings and prints shall have dimensions that are
multiples of nine inches (9") along one side and multiples of twelve inches
(12") along the adjacent side. Tracings shall be submitted rolled in a mailing
tube and prints shall be submitted folded to nine inches by twelve inches (9" x
12"). The drawing shall be to a scale of convenience, but not less than one
inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100').
The maximum size of the plat shall not exceed the limits established under
State statute. The preliminary layout shall contain the following information:
   A.   Name of subdivision.
   B.   Legal description of location.
   C.   Scale of the layout or plat.
   D.   Date upon which plat was made.
   E.   North arrow.
   F.   Boundary lines of the subdivision with length and bearing of lines,
including approximate radii and angles.
   G.   Approximate relationship of the subdivision to section and half-section
lines, and to any adjacent Village boundary lines and distances and bearings to
nearest official monuments.
   H.   The location, widths and names of streets or other public ways,
easements, railroad and utility rights of way; both within the subdivision and
those adjacent to or leading into the subdivision.
   I.   Location of land intended to be dedicated to public use or reserved in
the deeds for the use of all property owners in the subdivision.
   J.   Numbers and dimensions of lots and blocks. Lot numbers within each
subdivision shall begin with the number "1" in each block and shall be
consecutive with no omission or duplications.
   K.   Location of watercourses and other important features. Indicate flood
level of watercourses.
   L.   Contours, with intervals of five feet (5') or less, referred to sea
level datum, if required by Director of Office of Quality Control.
   M.   Name and address of owner and subdivider, and name of designer of the
preliminary layout.
   N.   The names of subdivisions immediately adjacent and the names of owners
of record of adjacent unsubdivided tracts.
   O.   Existing permanent buildings or structures within or adjacent to the
tract.
   P.   Where the preliminary layout covers only a part of the subdivider's
entire holding, a sketch of the prospective street system of the unsubmitted
part shall be furnished and the street system of the submitted part will be
considered in the light of adjustments and connections with the street system
of the part not submitted.
   Q.   If the informal consideration indicates that the subdivision is a
portion of a unit area for development on the official plan, the preliminary
layout shall include a small scale study of the unit area. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-
12-19)
5-2-2-3: APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Consideration: The Zoning and Planning Commission will study the
preliminary layout in connection with the official plan, including the major
street plan, the zoning title and the topography of the area, and will take
into consideration the general requirements of the community, the particular
requirements of the neighborhood, and the best use of the land to be
subdivided. Particular attention will be given to considerations involving
parks, playgrounds, school sites, major streets, the adequacy of street
connections and the suitability of the land for development.
   B.   Action By Zoning and Planning Commission: The planning and development
commission will communicate its approval or its disapproval, in writing, to the
subdivider within sixty (60) days of the time at which application for
preliminary approval is made, giving the specific changes which it will require
in the preliminary layout, and the character and extent of the required public
improvements.
   C.   Effect Of Approval: Approval by the Zoning and Planning Commission of
the preliminary layout does not constitute acceptance of the plat of the
proposed subdivision, acceptance of proposed improvements or final agreement as
to improvement specifications or costs. It is to be considered only as
preliminary approval of the general layout design. (Ords. 79-2-4, 81-36-78, 92-
11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
5-2-2-4: EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF APPROVAL:
Approval of the preliminary layout shall be effective for a maximum period of
twelve (12) months, except that submission within this period of a final plat
applying to a portion of the area covered by the preliminary layout shall
extend the effective period of preliminary approval to a maximum of twenty four
(24) months from the date of submission of the preliminary layout. If a final
plat has not been submitted to the Zoning and Planning Commission within these
time limits, the proposed subdivision's preliminary approval shall be
considered withdrawn. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
5-2-2-5: FEES:
In order to cover the costs of examining the layout, advertising and holding
public hearings, and other expenses incidental to the approval of a
subdivision, the subdivider shall pay a fee at the time of application for
approval of a preliminary plat. Such fee shall be based on the estimated number
of lots created. At the time of application for approval of the final plat, the
required fee will be recalculated on the basis of the actual number of lots
created, and an adjustment of the fee will be made; the subdivider to pay an
additional amount or to receive a refund if the adjusted fee differs from the
original fee. There will be no refund of any portion of the fee if the
subdivider fails to apply for final approval of the subdivision. If, because of
the failure of the subdivider to submit a final plat within twelve (12) months
after receiving approval of a preliminary plat, it is necessary to resubmit a
preliminary plat for approval, the subdivider shall be required to pay the fee
currently in effect at the time of resubmission.
The fees for application for preliminary approval of a subdivision shall be
charged and collected at the following rate:
 
Number Of Lots                                        Fee1
In Subdivision
1 or 2 lots                                          $ 150.00
3 to 10 lots                                         250.00
11 to 25 lots plus $15.00 per lot in excess of 10    250.00
26 to 100 lots plus $10.00 per lot in excess of 25   480.00
101 to 200 lots plus $6.00 per lot in excess of 100  1,250.00
Over 200 lots plus $5.00 per lot in excess of 200    2,000.00
 
(Ords. 79-2-5, 03-20-84)
5-2-3: FINAL PLAT:
5-2-3-1: SUBMISSION:
After approval of the preliminary layout by the Zoning and Planning Commission
and fulfillment of the required conditions, the subdivider shall apply, in
writing, to the Zoning and Planning Commission for approval of a final plat.
The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary layout as given
preliminary approval. The application shall be in duplicate and shall be
accompanied by the original inked plat on medium acceptable to Cook County
recorder of deeds or Cook County registrar of titles, and fifteen (15) blue
line prints. Specifications for the plat and for other documents to accompany
the application are given in section
5-2-3-2 of this chapter. The final plat will not be considered as submitted
unless in agreement with specifications and accompanied by required documents.
Approval shall be given only at a regular meeting of the Zoning and Planning
Commission open to the public. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-79, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-
16-66)
5-2-3-2: FORM AND REQUIRED INFORMATION:
The final plat shall conform to the dimensional and scale standards of the
preliminary layout and shall contain all the information of section
5-2-2-2 of this chapter and, in addition, shall contain the following
information:
   A.   Location and reference of all monuments, which shall be located and of
the type specified in the current provisions of 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes,
known as the plats act.
   B.   Certification by an Illinois registered land surveyor to the effect
that the plat represents a survey made by him, and that the monuments shown
thereon were placed by him as located and that all dimensional and other
details such as curve data are shown.
   C.   Notarized certification by the owner or owners of the land or other
persons having an interest therein of the adoption of the plat and the
dedication of streets and other public areas.
   D.   Certification by signature of proper officials of the County of Cook
that there are no tax delinquencies.
   E.   Space for certification by signatures of the Village that there are no
special assessment delinquencies or other liens.
   F.   Space for approval of the Zoning and Planning Commission by date and
signature of the chairman of the Commission.
   G.   Space for approval of the Board of Trustees by date and signature of
the President, and spaces for signature of the Village Clerk, and the Village
Seal.
   H.   Subsections B through G above shall be executed in order of listing,
and shall be in the forms set forth in Section
5-2-3-7 hereof. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
5-2-3-3: ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTS:
Fifteen (15) copies of the final plat shall be submitted, and it shall be
accompanied by documents including the following:
   A.   Drawings and Specifications: Two (2) copies of working drawings and
specifications for improvements.
   B.   Restrictions: Two (2) copies of restrictions to be incorporated into
deeds or covenants to be recorded with the plat to be approved by the Village
Attorney.
   C.   Certificate: Certificate indicating whether plat is to be filed with
the Recorder of Deeds or Registrar of Titles.
   D.   Agreement for Improvements: Prior to the approval by the Village Board
of the final plat, the subdivider shall execute and file an agreement between
himself and the Village specifying the period within which he shall complete
all improvement work to the satisfaction of the Director of Office of Quality
Control, and providing that if he shall fail to complete such work within such
period, the Village may complete the work and recover full cost and expense
thereof from the subdivider. Such agreement may also provide for construction
of improvements in units, the extension of time under conditions specified, and
progress payment from deposit or bond.
   E.   Bond: The subdivider shall also file with the aforesaid agreement, to
insure his full and faithful performance thereof, a bond in an amount deemed
sufficient by the Director of Office of Quality Control, to cover the cost of
said improvements, engineering, inspection and expenses. Such bond shall be
executed by a surety company authorized to transact a surety business in the
State and must be satisfactory to and be approved by the Village Attorney as to
form. ln lieu of said bond, the subdivider may deposit with the Village Clerk a
sum of money in an amount fixed as aforesaid by the Director of Office of
Quality Control.
In the event the subdivider shall fail to complete all improvement work in
accordance with the provisions of this Title, and the Village shall have to
complete same, or if the subdivider shall fail to reimburse the Village for the
cost of inspection, engineering and general expenses, the Village shall call on
the surety for reimbursement, or shall appropriate, from any cash deposits,
funds for reimbursement. If the amount of surety bond or cash deposit shall
exceed all cost and expense incurred by the Village, it shall release the
remainder of such bond or cash deposit, and should such bond or deposit be less
than the cost and expense incurred by the Village, the subdivider shall be
liable to the Village for such difference.
No extension of time, progress payments from cash deposits or release of surety
bond or cash deposit shall be made except upon certification by the Director of
Office of Quality Control that work covered thereby has been satisfactorily
completed, and upon approval of the Village Board.
   F.   Deed Restrictions: A copy of any deed restrictions applicable to the
subdivision and not in conflict with this Title shall be filed with the Zoning
and Planning Commission at the time of submission of the final plat. (Ords. 79-
2-5, 81-12-19, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
5-2-3-4: APPROVAL AND ACCEPTANCE:
   A.   Procedure for Approval: The Zoning and Planning Commission will
communicate to the subdivider its disapproval or recommendation for approval of
the final plat, together with the reasons therefor, within sixty (60) days
after the date on which application for such approval is made. If the Zoning
and Planning Commission approves the final plat, such approval will be entered
upon the tracings by signature of the chairman. The tracings shall then be
transmitted to the Board of Trustees by the Zoning and Planning Commission with
recommendation for Board action. Upon approval by Board action and payment of
required fees, the tracings shall be signed by the President and the Village
Clerk and the Village Seal affixed. Approval by the Board shall be by a motion
setting forth all conditions upon which approval is predicated. The original
tracing shall be recorded with the appropriate officials of the County of Cook.
Appropriate notifications shall be given the Zoning and Planning Commission and
the subdivider advising Board approval or disapproval.
   B.   Acceptability for Recording: Approval of the final plat by the Zoning
and Planning Commission and the Village Board shall be null and void if the
plat is not acceptable for recording in the appropriate offices of the County
of Cook. The final plat must be prepared in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the current requirements of 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-
5029.
   C.   Limits on Approval: Within forty five (45) days of the date of final
approval, the subdivider shall take all actions necessary for acceptance for
recording by the appropriate offices of the County of Cook. Said actions shall
include but not be limited to the following:
      1.   Payment in full of all outstanding special assessments.
      2.   Payment in full of all ordinance requirements against property in
question.
      3.   Payment of all liens against property in question.
      4.   Payment of all current taxes against property.
      5.   Payment of all fees outlined in Chapter 4, Article A of this Title 1
.
   D.   Recording of Plat: It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to record
with the appropriate officials of the County of Cook all plats approved by the
Village President and Board of Trustees. Recording shall take place within
thirty (30) days of the payment of fees, as outlined in subsection 5-2-3-4C
above. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-11-45)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  5-4A-6 of this Code.
5-2-3-5: WITHDRAWAL OF PLAT:
If, after approval by the Village President and Board of Trustees, and prior to
recording, the subdivider, for whatever reason, elects to withdraw his
application for final approval, he shall notify the Village Clerk, in writing,
of his intent to do so. Upon receipt of said letter, the Village will refund
any money unexpended for the recording fees as outlined in Section
5-2-3-6 hereof, less twenty five dollars ($25.00) to be retained for handling
costs. (Ord. 79-2-5)
5-2-3-6: FEES:
   A.   Fees Required: In order to cover the costs of reviewing the plat and
any accompanying documents, the recording of the plat and other expenses
incidental to the approval and recording of a plat of subdivision, and in order
that the Village be guaranteed the payment of all fees required under the
various provisions of the law, the subdivider shall be required to pay certain
fees at the time of application for final approval. The fees for application
for final approval of a subdivision shall be charged and collected at the
following rate:
Recording Fee: An amount currently stipulated by the General Assembly of the
State of Illinois, in addition to a flat fee of one hundred twenty five dollars
($125.00) to be charged by the Village to cover the costs and expenses incurred
in the recording of said documents.
   B.   Review: All fees to be charged as provided by this Section shall be
annually reviewed by the staff, and recommendations as to their adequacy shall
be made by the staff to the Zoning and Planning Commission, who shall forward
their recommendations to the Village Board if changes are recommended. Said
fees shall be published upon passage of the required ordinance establishing
same. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
5-2-3-7: SAMPLES OF REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:
The documents and papers required by this Section shall be in substantially the
following forms:
   A.   Survey Certificate:
      SURVEY CERTIFICATION
      State of Illinois)
      County of Cook) ss
      I, ___________________________, do hereby certify that I have surveyed
the property in the above caption and that I have subdivided the same in the
manner indicated on the hereon drawn plat. This plat represents said survey and
subdivision. Monuments shown were placed as located. All lot corners are marked
with _________ _______________. Dimensions are in feet and decimal parts
thereof, corrected to 62 degrees F. temperature. I also certify that
____________________ part of the property covered by this plat of
(re)subdivision is situated within 500 feet of a surface drain or watercourse
serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more.
Dated this ____ day of ______A.D. ______ s/ __________________________________
Illinois Registered Land Surveyor No. _____ (Seal)
   B.   Ownership Certificates:
      CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP
      State of Illinois)
      County of Cook) ss
      (I) We, _______________ and ___________ his wife, do hereby certify that
(I am) we are the owner(s) of the property described hereon and that as such
owner(s) (I) we have caused the said described property to be surveyed and
(re)subdivided as shown on the hereon drawn plat, as (my)our own free and
voluntary act and deed.
      s/_________________(SEAL)
      s/_________________(SEAL)
      State of Illinois)
      County of Cook) ss
I, _________________, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, do
hereby certify that _______________________ and __________________, his wife,
personally known to me to be the same persons whose names are subscribed to the
above certificate appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that
they signed the above certificate as their own free and voluntary act and deed
for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
Give under my hand and notarial seal this _______________ day of ________ A.D.
_______.
   s/_________________(SEAL)
   Notary Public
   ADDITIONAL CERTIFICATION IF PROPERTY UNDER TRUSTEESHIP
   The undersigned as trustee under the provisions of a deed or deeds in trust
duly recorded and delivered to said trustee in pursuance of a trust agreement
dated         , and known as Trust No.            as owner caused this
(re)subdivision and plat thereon to be made.
      By s/    
            Title
      Attest s/             
            Title
   (SEAL)
State of Illinois   )
County of Cook   ) ss
                          , a Notary Public in and for said County and State,
do hereby certify that                      of the                     and
                   of said                        , who are personally known to
me to be the same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing
instrument as such                              respectively appeared before me
this day in person and acknowledged that they signed and delivered the said
instrument as their free and voluntary act of the said trustee for the uses and
purposes therein set forth and the said                             did also
then and there acknowledge that he, as custodian of the Corporate Seal of said
trustee, did affix the said seal of the said trustee to said instrument as his
free and voluntary act and as the free and voluntary act of said trustee for
the uses and purposes therein set forth.
Given under my hand and notarial seal this                 day of
                , A.D.,              .
      s/    
         Notary Public
      ADDITIONAL CERTIFICATION IF PROPERTY ENCUMBERED BY MORTGAGE OR TRUST DEED
      State of Illinois   )
      County of Cook   ) ss
                                  as mortgagee, holding mortgage No.
           , dated                    , hereby consents to the (re)subdivision
of the property described herein. Dated this            day of
                      A.D., 19           .
         By: s/   
               Title
         Attest: s/   
                Title
      (SEAL)
State of Illinois   )
County of Cook   ) ss
I,           a Notary Public in the State aforesaid do hereby certify that
                                   and                               of
                           , who are personally known to me to be the same
persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument as such
                      and                             respectively, did appear
before me this day in person and acknowledged that they signed and delivered
said instrument as their own free and voluntary act and as the free and
voluntary act of said                                    for the uses and
purposes set forth and the said                                       did then
and there, acknowledge that                 as custodian of the corporate seal
of said                                 did affix said seal to said instrument
as                                  own free and voluntary act and as the free
and voluntary act of said                                 for the purposes as
therein set forth.
Given under my hand and notarial seal this                      day of
                         A.D., 19       .
      s/    
            Notary Public
   (SEAL)
      ADDITIONAL CERTIFICATE REQUIRED IF CONTRACT PURCHASER
      State of Illinois   )
      County of Cook   ) ss
   This is to certify that                        who is the contract purchaser
of the property described herein, and has caused said property to be surveyed
and subdivided as shown hereon for the uses and purposes therein set forth as
allowed and provided by statute, and said contract purchaser does hereby
acknowledge and adopt the same under the title aforesaid.
Dated at                                    , Illinois, this                 
day of                               , A.D., 19             .
      s/    
   Contract Purchaser
      Attest: s/    
            Title
   (SEAL)
State of Illinois   )
County of Cook   ) ss
I,                               , a Notary Public for the County in the State
aforesaid do hereby certify that                                        , who
is personally known to me to be the person whose name is subscribed to the
foregoing certificate, appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged
the execution of this instrument in                           capacity for the
uses and purposes therein set forth as                                   free
and voluntary act.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this                       day of
                           A.D., 19                 .
      s/    
         Notary Public
   (SEAL)
   C.   County Clerk Certification: County Clerk will provide text with stamp.
Allow space four inches by four inches (4" x 4").
   D.   Village Collector Certification:
      I hereby certify that there are no unpaid current special assessments on
the above described property.
                     s/                             
      Date   Village Collector
   E.   Zoning and Planning Commission Approval:
      Approved by the Oak Lawn Zoning and Planning Commission in accordance
with Subdivision Regulations.
      By: s/                            
       Chairman   Date
   F.   Board Of Trustees Approval:
Approval by action of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Oak Lawn in
accordance with Subdivision Regulations at a meeting held on the
                  day of                   , A.D.,
                               .
         By: s/    
   President
         Attest: s/    
   Village Clerk
   (SEAL)
(Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
5-2-4: PLATS OF CONSOLIDATION:
   A.   A "plat of consolidation" is defined as a plat which combines one or
more existing lots of record, in whole or in part, into a single lot of record.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter which would require
the Zoning and Planning Commission and/or the Village Board to take action in
regard to a proposed plat of subdivision, a plat of consolidation may be
approved administratively by the Director of Community Development and Growth
Management, without need to bring said plat of consolidation before the Zoning
and Planning Commission or the Village Board, provided the lot created by said
plat of consolidation is in full compliance with Section
5-3-3-2 of this Title. (Ords. 98-19-86, 19-16-66)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Conformance To Neighborhood Plan
5-3-2: Streets And Alleys
5-3-3: Lots And Blocks
5-3-3-1: Grading For Drainage
5-3-3-2: Lots
5-3-3-3: Blocks
5-3-4: Reserve Strips
5-3-1: CONFORMANCE TO NEIGHBORHOOD PLAN:
If a suggested plan for the neighborhood or area in which the tract to be
subdivided is located has been made by the Zoning and Planning Commission, the
street layout of the subdivision shall be in general conformance thereto.
(Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
5-3-2: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Street System: The street system shall relate functionally to the
existing streets in the area adjoining the proposed subdivision.
The street layout shall be devised for the most advantageous development of the
entire neighborhood area. Where necessary to the neighborhood pattern, existing
principal streets in adjoining subdivisions shall be continued and shall be at
least as wide as such existing streets and in alignment with them. The street
layout shall provide for the future projection of the principal streets into
unsubdivided lands adjoining.
   B.   Center Lines: The center lines of all streets wherever practicable,
shall be the continuation of the center lines of existing streets, or shall be
offset at least one hundred feet (100').
   C.   Major Streets: Wherever a subdivision includes a major street, as shown
on the Major Street Plan, such major street shall be platted in the location
and of the width indicated on the Major Street Plan.
   D.   Collector Streets: Collector streets shall be included when it is
apparent that sufficient traffic will flow from the minor streets within the
subdivision, and that such traffic will need to be channeled in control of the
number of access points to the major street.
   E.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
   F.   Minor And Major Street Intersections: There shall be a minimum number
of intersections of minor streets with major streets.
   G.   Marginal Access Streets: Where a subdivision has frontage on a major
street, as shown on the Major Street Plan, or on a super highway or other high
volume trafficway, and where it is not feasible to have the lots back to such
high volume streets, provision shall be made for marginal access streets. These
marginal access streets shall be approximately parallel to and on each side of
the major street right of way and separated from such right of way by a strip
of land at least ten feet (10') wide. Separation strips may be provided with
screen planting, but such planting shall be so placed that it does not obstruct
vision at intersections.
   H.   Streets Adjacent to Railroads, Waterways or Major Streets: Where a
subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right of way, waterway or major
street, the Zoning and Planning Commission may require a street approximately
parallel to and on each side of such right of way or major street, at a
distance suitable for appropriate use of the intervening land. Such distance
shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach
grades and future grade separations.
   I.   Alleys: Paved rear alleys not less than twenty feet (20') wide will be
required in all business and industrial districts, except where special
conditions make alleys impracticable; in such cases, adequate off-street
loading space, suitably surfaced, shall be provided. Dead-end alleys shall not
be allowed.
   J.   Half-Streets: Half-streets shall not be permitted.
   K.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed four hundred feet (400') in
length as measured along the center line from the nearest right of way line of
the intersecting street to the center point of the cul-de-sac, and shall have a
turnaround not less than one hundred twenty feet (120') in diameter of right of
way, and pavement diameter of ninety feet (90') at the closed end.
   L.   Grades: Street grades shall conform in general to the terrain and shall
be not less than one-half of one percent (0.5%) nor more than five percent
(5%). Street grades shall be such as to provide natural surface drainage of
storm water regardless of the presence or absence of storm sewers. The intent
is to avoid depressions or inverts that will flood in flash storms for which
storm sewers are inadequate.
   M.   Right of Way Widths: The minimum right of way widths for streets,
alleys and crosswalkways shall be as follows:
 Feet
                                                                      Feet
Major streets including section line streets                            
(Except in cases where a greater or lesser width is shown on the major 100
street plan)
Half section line streets                                              80
Minor street                                                           66
Cul-de-sac (see also subsection K above)                               66
Marginal access street (without intersecting streets)                  40
Commercial alley                                                       20
Crosswalkway (when required)                                           10
 
   N.   Roadway Widths: The following roadway widths from outside to outside of
curbs are required:
 Feet
                                                     Feet
Major street                                          Variable
Collector street                                      40
Minor street                                          32
Cul-de-sac (see also subsection K above)              32
Marginal access street (without intersecting streets) 28
Alley (in business or industrial district)            20
Crosswalkway                                          8
Sidewalk                                              5
 
   O.   Minimum Curvatures: The minimum of curvature of streets on the center
line shall be:
 
                Feet
Major street     600
Collector street 300
Minor street     100
 
   P.   Tangent Between Reversed Curves: Between reversed curves on all
streets, there shall be a tangent at least one hundred feet (100') long.
   Q.   Angle of Intersections: Street intersections shall be at right angles
or nearly so. Where, because of topographic or other reasons, an intersection
cannot be at right angles, such intersections shall be so designed as to be in
accordance with good engineering practices.
   R.   Curb Radii: Curb radii shall not be less than twenty feet (20'). Where
an angle of intersection less than sixty degrees (60") is permitted, curb radii
shall be increased as necessary for safety.
   S.   Future Streets and Subdivisions: If a tract is subdivided into larger
parcels than ordinary building lots (see subsection
5-3-3-2A of this Chapter), such parcels shall be arranged to allow the opening
of future streets and logical future subdivisions. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-
11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
5-3-3: LOTS AND BLOCKS:
5-3-3-1: GRADING FOR DRAINAGE:
Lots and blocks shall be so graded as to eliminate depressions that would
accumulate storm water. Grades at building sites shall bear such relationships
to roadway and curb grades as to prevent flooding of basement windows or of
entryways, either to basements or to first-floor levels in the absence of
basements. Where deemed necessary, the Director of Office of Quality Control
may require the subdivider to submit working drawings showing contours to which
the property is to be graded in order to provide for the requirements of this
Section. In such cases, building permits shall not be issued unless the lot
plan indicates site and building grades consistent with the grading drawing.
(Ords. 79-2-5, 81-12-19)
5-3-3-2: LOTS:
   A.   Minimum Width and Depth: Recognizing the character of the various
neighborhoods within the Village and the need for flexibility in the
classification of lot sizes and areas, the minimum lot width and depth
requirement for lots to be subdivided under the requirements of this title
shall be divided into five (5) classes of lots. Applicability of the various
classes of lots shall depend solely upon the character of the existing
surrounding neighborhood, and shall comply with the following requirements:
      Class 1: Blocks in neighborhoods of predominantly twenty five (25) and
thirty foot (30') lots of record and zoned for single-family use, which were
recorded with the appropriate officials of the county of Cook prior to October
1, 1956, may be subdivided into buildable lots which are combinations of two
(2) or more lots or parts thereof. However, in certain situations, a
combination of three (3) existing lots of record to be resubdivided may be
allowed provided all of the lots as proposed contain at least forty five (45)
linear feet of frontage at the building line, and contain not less than five
thousand six hundred (5,600) square feet.
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the minimum depth of the lots in this
situation shall be one and one-half (11/2) times the proposed frontage of the
lot or one hundred fifteen feet (115'), whichever is greater.
      Class 2: Blocks in neighborhoods where the lot depth of existing lots of
record exceeds one hundred seventy five feet (175') from the front right of way
line to the rear lot line (excluding double frontage lots) and zoned for
single-family uses, which were recorded with the appropriate officials of the
county of Cook prior to October 1, 1956. The minimal lot size in these areas
shall be fifty (50) linear feet at the front building line, and each lot shall
contain at least ten thousand (10,000) square feet. For purposes of this
paragraph, the requirements of subsection B of this section shall not apply.
      Class 3: See section
4-3-2 of this code.
      Class 4: All other lots zoned for single-family use. Lots for single-
family residential use shall be at least fifty five feet (55') wide at building
setback line for interior lots, and sixty feet (60') wide for corner lots, and
shall contain at least six thousand eight hundred seventy five (6,875) square
feet in area for interior lots, and seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square
feet in area for corner lots.
      Class 5: Lots for development or use other than single-family housing,
and lands zoned for regional shopping by the zoning title shall be exempted
from the minimum lot widths and depths, as outlined in this title. These
parcels shall be (re)subdivided in conformance with a plan approved by the
Zoning and Planning Commission and village board, and in compliance with all
other applicable provisions of this title.
   B.   Maximum Depth: The maximum depth of any lot, exclusive of unusable
land, shall be three and one-half (31/2) times the width of the lot, except for
class 2 lots above.
   C.   Lots To Abut On Streets: Every lot shall abut on a dedicated and
improved street for at least twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Setbacks And Side Yards: Minimum setback lines from property lines in
residential zones shall conform with the zoning regulations; except, that there
shall be a side yard along each lot line of a width not less than five feet
(5').
   E.   Property Lines At Corner: Property line at street intersection corners
shall be right angles, or nearly so.
   F.   Side Lines: Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles
or radial to the street line.
   G.   Shape: The shape of lots and their orientation shall be appropriate to
the location of the proposed subdivision, and to the type of development
contemplated.
   H.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage lots, other than corner lots,
will be permitted only under unusual circumstances.
   I.   Building Sites: Every lot must contain a suitable building site and be
able to conform to the requirements of the building and zoning regulations for
the erection and location of building structures. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-
11-45, 93-9-24, 05-15-52, 07-05-16, 19-16-66)
5-3-3-3: BLOCKS:
   A.   Length: Blocks shall not exceed one thousand two hundred feet (1,200')
in length nor be less than two hundred fifty feet (250') in length; blocks
longer than eight hundred feet (800') in length may be required to have
crosswalk ways.
   B.   Blocks For Industrial And Commercial Use: Blocks intended for
industrial or commercial use shall be designed specifically for such purpose
with adequate space set aside for off street parking and loading and meet
minimum requirements for parking. (Ord. 79-2-5)
5-3-4: RESERVE STRIPS:
There shall be no reservation of strips of land that prevent or limit access to
land dedicated or intended to be dedicated to public use.
Reserved strips controlling the access to public ways or which will prove
taxable for special improvements, will not be approved unless such strips are
necessary for the protection of the public welfare or of substantial property
rights, or both, and in no case except in which control and disposal of the
land comprising such strips is placed definitely within the jurisdiction of the
village under conditions approved by the Zoning and Planning Commission. (Ords.
79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Improvements Required Generally
5-4-2: Roadway Improvements
5-4-3: Driveways
5-4-4: Easements
5-4-5: Stormwater Drainage
5-4-6: Landscaping, Fences
5-4-7: Natural Features
5-4-1: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED GENERALLY:
The Zoning and Planning Commission shall have the power to require one or more
of the following improvements depending upon the nature and scope of the
subdivision. The subdivider shall provide, at a minimum, those improvements
that are not existing at the time of submission of the final plat and the
subdivider shall be required to make provision for the installation of same in
accordance with section
5-4A-5 of this chapter. Particular attention shall be given to means for
disposition of stormwater and to the desirability of curb and gutter or other
provision to prevent breakdown of pavement edges. The design, layout and
carrying capacities of stormwater, sanitary sewer and water facilities shall
recognize the future requirements of adjacent undeveloped areas.
Crosswalks.
Curb and gutter.
Driveways and off street parking.
Pavement striping.
Rear yard drainage.
Sanitary sewage facilities.
Sidewalks.
Stormwater drainage facilities.
Street and alley paving.
Street signs.
Streetlights.
Survey monuments.
Topsoil where appropriate.
Traffic control signs.
Water mains and hydrants. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
5-4-2: ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS:
The subdivider shall, at his own expense, improve all streets in accordance
with the current specifications in effect as amended from time to time by the
village president and board of trustees; provided, however, that the president
and board of trustees may impose more stringent specifications for through
streets within or adjoining a subdivision as a condition precedent to accepting
any subdivision plat. (Ord. 79-2-5)
5-4-3: DRIVEWAYS:
Except where improved alleys are existing, every lot in a subdivision shall be
provided with not more than one paved driveway. Said driveway shall contain
sufficient paved area for the parking of at least two (2) full size
automobiles, unless the only parking space(s) located on said driveway is/are
in the front yard, in which case sufficient paved area for only one full size
automobile will be allowed. Said driveway shall comply with the following:
   A.   Minimum Length And Width: The minimum driveway length shall be from the
street access to a point forty feet (40') behind the minimum setback line, and
the minimum width of said paved driveway shall be nine feet (9'). When the only
parking space(s) located on a driveway is/are in the front yard, the minimum
driveway length, as provided by this subsection, shall not be applicable to the
driveway.
   B.   Maximum Width: In no case shall a driveway for access to a single-
family residential property exceed twenty feet (20') in width at the property
line.
   C.   Number Of Driveways: Not more than one driveway shall be allowed to
service any single-family home unless permission is first granted by the Zoning
and Planning Commission.
   D.   Circular Driveways: For purposes of this chapter a "circular driveway"
is defined as a continuous driveway that provides access to the street via more
than one curb cut on a single street frontage. Any new circular driveway must
be petitioned for before the Zoning and Planning Commission subject to the
provisions of sections
2-1-7-2 and
2-1-7-3 of this code.
   E.   Construction Materials And Standards: The driveway shall be constructed
with a minimum concrete thickness of five inches (5") and a granular bedding
base of two inches (2") minimum compacted thickness, or with a minimum
compacted crushed stone base course of six inches (6") in thickness and an
asphalt surfaced course of two inches (2") in thickness, and all such
construction shall be in accordance with sections
6-1G-1 through
6-1G-3 of this code.
   F.   Access To Streets: Except in the case of a corner lot, the driveway for
a single- family residence shall only access the street in front of the
property serviced by the driveway. In the case of a corner lot, the driveway
for a single-family residence may access either: 1) the street in front of the
property serviced by the driveway ("front load garage") or 2) the street which
abuts the property and intersects the street in front of the property ("side
load garage"). For purposes of this subsection, the "street in front of the
property" shall be defined as the street designated in the mailing address for
the property. In addition to the aforementioned street access, a driveway for a
single-family residence may also access an alley abutting the property. A
variation from the provisions of this subsection may be petitioned for before
the Zoning and Planning Commission subject to the provisions of sections
2-1-7-2 and
2-1-7-3 of this code. (Ords. 12-24-77, 19-16-66)
5-4-4: EASEMENTS:
   A.   All aboveground utilities shall be placed on rear or side property
lines. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, an appropriate
easement shall be provided for the watercourse in either an open cut or in an
underground conduit, depending upon the density of development.
   B.   Where water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, gas mains, telephone
lines, power lines or other utilities are located on or adjacent to property
lines, adequate easements together with right of ingress or egress thereto and
therefrom shall be provided and platted.
   C.   Said easement shall provide that no structure or building, except a
division fence shall be placed on said easement.
   D.   Easements shall not be less than eight feet (8') in width. Where more
than one underground utility is to occupy the easement, the easement shall be
of such width as to extend five feet (5') at each side beyond the centerline of
the outermost utilities. Additional width shall be provided where necessary to
accommodate utility pole bracing. The Zoning and Planning Commission may
require evidence of approval by the public utility company of easement width.
   E.   The installation of all utilities underground is strongly encouraged.
(Ords. 79-2-5, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
5-4-5: STORMWATER DRAINAGE:
The subdivider shall, subject to riparian rights, dedicate a right of way for
storm drainage purposes, conforming substantially with the lines of any natural
watercourse, channel, stream or creek that traverses the subdivision, or to
provide additional easements for both, to dispose of such stormwater. (Ord. 79-
2-5)
5-4-6: LANDSCAPING, FENCES:
Where a residential subdivision adjoins a railroad right of way, waterway, an
industrial area, a business area or other land use which could have a
depreciating effect on the residential use of the property, buffer strips shall
be provided as required by the zoning title and outlined in section
4-1-6 of this code. Only in unusual circumstances will a wire fence be allowed,
and then only after hardship has been demonstrated by the subdivider. (Ord. 79-
2-5)
5-4-7: NATURAL FEATURES:
Outstanding natural and cultural features, such as scenic spots and
watercourses, shall be preserved insofar as possible. (Ord. 79-2-5)
ARTICLE A. CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Conformance With Village Standards
5-4A-2: Construction Plans And Commencement, Procedure
5-4A-3: Licensed Contractors Required
5-4A-4: Inspections
5-4A-5: Guarantee Of Completion And Maintenance
5-4A-6: Fees
5-4A-7: Acceptance Of Improvements
5-4A-8: Responsibility For Maintenance And Repair
5-4A-9: Applicability Of Other Regulations
5-4A-10: Environmental Assessment As Condition Of Land Dedication Or Donation
5-4A-1: CONFORMANCE WITH VILLAGE STANDARDS:
All improvements shall be in accordance with village standards and requirements
as given in ordinances and regulations in effect at the time of submission of
the final plat. (Ord. 79-2-5)
5-4A-2: CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND COMMENCEMENT, PROCEDURE:
   A.   Preparation: The subdivider shall have working drawings and
specifications for improvements prepared by an Illinois registered professional
engineer retained by the subdivider. The engineer retained by the subdivider
shall be other than an engineer on the village payroll or one retained by the
village.
   B.   Submittal: Before considering the approval of the final plat for any
subdivision, the Zoning and Planning Commission will require that appropriate
working drawings and specifications be submitted for those improvements
required at the time of approval of the preliminary layout.
   C.   Review, Fees: All working drawings, specifications and cost estimates
shall be checked by the director of office of Community Development and Growth
Management or by a consulting firm duly retained by the village. The subdivider
shall reimburse the village for preparation and for checking of working
drawings, specifications and cost estimates in accordance with section
5-4A-6 of this article.
   D.   Conformance To Village Standards: Working drawings and specifications
shall be in accordance with village standards and requirements, as published by
the director of office of Community Development and Growth Management.
   E.   Approval: Approval of the village shall be secured before commencement
of construction of any improvement. Recording of the final plat shall
constitute permission to proceed with construction. If the subdivider elects,
as provided in this Article, to construct an improvement prior to approval of
the final plat, the Village Manager may extend permission to proceed upon
recommendation of the Zoning and Planning Commission together with
certification by the Director of Office of Community Development and Growth
Management that working drawings and specifications have been prepared and
approved, and that engineering fees have been paid and that an inspection bond
has been posted.
   F.   State, County Permission Required: The subdivider shall also secure any
permission required by laws of the State and County, and permission extended by
the Village shall not relieve the subdivider of responsibility to secure State
and County approval. If such permission is required, a copy of said written
permission is to be filed with the Director of Office of Community Development
and Growth Management. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-12-19, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24,
19-16-66)
5-4A-3: LICENSED CONTRACTORS REQUIRED:
The developer shall file with the Director of Office of Quality Control a list
of all contractors and subcontractors who are to participate in construction of
public improvements. Such contractors and subcontractors shall be subject to
the licensing provisions of this Code and Village ordinances, and shall be
subject to disqualification by reason of faulty performance upon past
construction work done in the Village. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-12-19)
5-4A-4: INSPECTIONS:
All public improvements, as defined herein, shall be subject to inspection by
Village inspectors during the course of construction and after construction is
completed. All materials and workmanship used in the construction of such
improvements shall be in compliance with all Village codes and ordinances. All
contractors shall make reasonable tests and provide proof of quality of
materials upon request of such inspectors.
   A.   Notice to Inspect: It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider or
his contractor to notify the Director of Office of Quality Control when work is
to be started and to request assignment of an inspector. The initial
notification that a particular improvement is to be started shall be in writing
and shall reach the Director of Office of Quality Control two (2) working days
in advance of the date that inspection is to begin. The notice shall be
accompanied by an inspection bond in accordance with Section
5-4A-5 of this Article.
   B.   Reports: The Village inspector shall prepare and submit to the Director
of Office of Quality Control each day, a report stating progress of work and
giving his findings as to quality and quantity of materials used. He shall, in
particular, call attention to any circumstances that entail departures from
working drawings and specifications such as unforeseen difficulties of
drainage, ground water, poor subsoil, unstable fill material or other
circumstances. Whenever, in his opinion, such departures are likely to cause
either a lower ultimate standard of performance or a higher construction cost
than could reasonably be anticipated, he shall immediately notify the Director
of Office of Quality Control. When an improvement has been completed, he shall
prepare a summary report and furnish a copy of said report to the developer and
his engineer.
   C.   Approval:
      1.   Approval by the inspector shall not be deemed acceptance of the
improvement by the Village. Acceptance shall be only by action of the Board of
Trustees, and acceptance shall be contingent upon a favorable inspection report
signed by the Director of Office of Quality Control.
      2.   Approval by the inspector shall in no way relieve the subdivider of
full responsibility for adherence by his contractors to specifications and
working drawings, nor for high standards of materials, methods and workmanship.
   D.   Fees: To defray the engineering and inspection expenses incurred by the
Village in preparation or checking of preliminary and final cost estimates,
working drawings, specifications, and in executing inspection responsibilities,
the subdivider shall be required to reimburse the Village as indicated in
Section
5-4A-6 of this Article. These are separate and distinct charges from the fee
paid at the time of submission of either the preliminary or final layouts.
(Ords. 79-2-5, 81-12-19)
5-4A-5: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE:
The Village shall not record the final plat unless and until the subdivider has
guaranteed the completion of all required improvements within a reasonable
period and in compliance with working drawings and specifications, and has
guaranteed to maintain said improvements until they are accepted by the
Village. This guarantee shall be by one or a combination of one or more of
three (3) methods. Only one method shall be applied to one specific
improvement.
   A.   Performance Bond: The subdivider may post a performance bond prepared
in a form approved by the Village Attorney and underwritten by a surety company
listed as approved by the Village Attorney. The amount of the bond shall be not
less than one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the final estimate of cost
of the improvement as estimated by the Director of Office of Quality Control
under Section
5-4A-6 of this Article. There shall be no reduction in the amount of that
portion of the bond applying to a particular improvement unless and until that
improvement is complete and accepted by the Village. The subgrade, base course
and surface course of a street, alley or parking area shall be considered as a
single improvement from the standpoint of acceptance.
   B.   Cash Deposit: The subdivider may deposit a cash bond with the Village
in accordance with a specific escrow agreement approved by the Village Attorney
and Village Manager and in an amount not less than one hundred twenty five
percent (125%) of the final estimate of cost of the improvements as estimated
by the Director of Office of Quality Control under Section
5-4A-6 of this Article. The deposit shall be held in a special account by the
Village and the agreement may provide for partial payouts as work progresses in
amounts recommended by the Director of Office of Quality Control as
corresponding to the original estimate of unit costs. Partial payouts shall be
contingent upon favorable inspection reports, and the sum of partial payouts
for a single improvement shall not exceed eighty five percent (85%) of the
original deposit for the improvement until and unless the improvement is
complete and accepted by the Village. Payment will be made by the Village only
upon submission of the proper waivers for all labor and materials. The
subgrade, base course and surface course of a street, alley or parking area
shall be considered a single improvement from the standpoint of acceptance.
   C.   Improvement Completion Prior to Final Plat Approval: Upon specific
permission of the Board of Trustees, as recommended by the Zoning and Planning
Commission, the subdivider may elect to complete one or more improvements prior
to approval of the final plat. Where the subdivider elects to guarantee
completion of an improvement by this method, approval of the final plat shall
be contingent upon certification by the Director of Office of Community
Development and Growth Management that the improvement has been completed in
accordance with drawings and specifications; that the inspection reports are
favorable; and that guarantee has been provided to cover cost of maintenance of
the improvement in accordance with subsection
5-4A-8A of this Article. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-12-19, 81-36-78, 92-11-45, 93-9-24,
19-16-66)
5-4A-6:FEES:
The subdivider shall have working drawings, specifications and cost estimates
for improvements prepared by an engineer retained by himself; he shall submit
such drawings, specifications and estimates to the Director of Office of
Quality Control. The application shall be accompanied by two (2) sets of
construction prints, specifications and estimates. The Director of Office of
Quality Control shall inform the subdivider of the amount of the charge for
this service and the charge shall be two percent (2%) of the total estimated
cost of the improvement, as confirmed by the Director of Office of Quality
Control. Checking shall proceed after the subdivider has paid over this fee to
the Office of Quality Control. Additional fees shall be paid for rechecking of
drawings, specifications and estimates arising from revisions made by or
required of the subdivider. There shall be no refund of engineering fees if the
project is abandoned for any reason whatsoever.
   A.   Engineering Fees: The engineering fee is intended to include checking
of preliminary and final cost estimates, working drawings and specifications,
but it is not intended to include inspection or supervision of work.
   B.   Inspection Fees:
      1.   Before grading or construction of improvements is started, the
subdivider or his contractor shall post with the Office of Quality Control a
cash inspection bond in an amount agreed upon between the Director of Office of
Quality Control and the subdivider as being sufficient to provide for
inspection charges at the current per diem rates. From this bond shall be
deducted, each day, the inspection expense incurred by the Village at the rates
set forth below. Any excess of the bond over actual inspection charges will be
refunded to the depositor and cured by the subdivider by depositing a
sufficient sum of money to ensure continuity of inspection.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to notify the
Director of Office of Quality Control in advance as to the dates that
construction work will commence and complete for purposes of determining the
number of days of inspection charge. In event of dispute only notification in
writing shall be considered as proof of notice.
      3.   Per diem inspection rates shall be equal to one hundred percent
(100%) of the engineer's quoted charge to the Village. If inspection is
performed by an inspector on the Village payroll, the charge shall be one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the regular salary paid to the inspector
computed to an hourly basis. There shall be not less than a four (4) hour
charge for time spent in any one day. For time spent outside of the regular
working hours of the inspector, the hourly charge shall be two hundred fifty
percent (250%) of the regular salary paid to the inspector computed to an
hourly basis. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-12-19; 1985 Code)
5-4A-7: ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Acceptance of an improvement by the Village shall be only by resolution of the
Board of Trustees upon recommendation of the Director of Office of Quality
Control. Recommendation shall be contingent upon:
   A.   Fulfillment of the requirements of Section
5-4A-5 of this Article.
   B.   An opinion by the Village Attorney that satisfactory and proper
conveyances and dedications have been made by the subdivider to the Village.
   C.   Improvements being complete and in good repair in accordance with
Village standards and requirements.
   D.   Inspection reports indicating compliance with working drawings and
specifications.
   E.   A single improvement shall not be accepted in part; it shall be
complete throughout the subdivision as indicated in the final plat and working
drawings. The subgrade, base course and surface course of a street, alley or
parking area shall be considered as a single improvement.
Acceptance of an improvement shall constitute release of the applicable portion
of the performance bond, or of the applicable portion of the balance of cash
deposit. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-12-19)
5-4A-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
   A.   As further assurance of serviceable construction, and to provide for
repair of damage resulting from subsequent construction operations of the
subdivider or his contractors, the subdivider shall be responsible for all
maintenance of an improvement for a period of not less than fifteen (15) months
following completion and acceptance by the Village of construction of that
improvement; providing, in addition, that the subdivider shall be responsible
for all maintenance of roadways, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, parkway strips
and extension boxes and hydrants of water facilities until all construction
work has been completed upon other improvements, dwellings, buildings, fill and
landscaping adjacent to the improvement under consideration. The guarantee of
completion and maintenance shall recognize the possibility of maintenance costs
and the terms of the guarantee shall provide for reimbursement to the Village
for any maintenance expenses incurred by the Village in performing maintenance
work after failure of the subdivider to perform such work upon due notice. The
Village Attorney shall specify the form of such guarantee of completion and
maintenance upon request and recommendation of the Director of Office of
Quality Control.
   B.   The subdivider, his contractors and suppliers shall be responsible
[sic] that existing improvements and the property of the Village are not
damaged or rendered less useful or unsightly by the operations of the
subdivider, his contractors or suppliers. This provision is intended to include
damage or nuisance with respect to the land, improvements or landscaping of the
Village; damage to existing streets, sidewalks, curb and gutter, parkways by
passage thereover of equipment or trucks or by excavation for any purpose; the
spillage or tracking of earth, sand or rock onto existing streets, sidewalks,
curb and gutter or parkways; the washing by storm water of earth or sand onto
streets, sidewalks, curb and gutter or parkways or into catch basins or damage
to water mains, sanitary sewers, culverts or storm sewers. To reduce or
localize the possibility of damage to streets by heavy trucking, the Director
of Office of Quality Control shall instruct the subdivider as to the streets to
be used for access to the subdivision by equipment and trucks, and the
subdivider shall be responsible for enforcement of this instruction upon his
contractors and their suppliers. The subdivider shall make provisions to
prevent washing of earth or sand onto sidewalks, streets, curb and gutter and
into catch basins by storm water. Where deemed advisable, the Director of
Office of Quality Control shall have the power to require, either prior to
commencement of construction or after construction is in process, that the
subdivider post a surety bond to guarantee repair of damages or abatement of
nuisance. Where need for surety bond becomes apparent after construction is in
process, the Director of Office of Quality Control shall have the power to
order construction discontinued until said surety bond has been posted.
Expenses incurred by the Village in repairing damages, cleaning streets,
catchbasins and sewers shall be deducted from the surety. (Ords. 79-2-5, 81-12-
19)
5-4A-9: APPLICABILITY OF OTHER REGULATIONS:
None of the provisions of these regulations pertaining to permission, surety,
fees, acceptances and approval shall be construed as exempting subdividers,
general contractors, sidewalk contractors, cement contractors, sewer builders,
drain layers, electrical contractors, electricians or any other contractor or
craftsman from any other ordinance or regulation of the Village with respect to
licenses, fees, surety inspection or other control. (Ord. 79-2-5)
5-4A-10: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AS CONDITION OF LAND DEDICATION OR DONATION:
   A.   Not less than five (5) days prior to any dedication or donation of real
estate required under any Village ordinance or requirement, the grantor/
dedicator, at its sole cost and expense, shall have caused to be prepared and
submitted to the Village a written report of a site assessment and
environmental audit, in scope, form and substance, and prepared by an
independent, competent and qualified engineer, satisfactory to the Village (the
"environmental audit"), and dated not more than sixty (60) days prior to the
transfer date, showing the engineer made all appropriate inquiry into the
previous ownership and uses of the property consistent with good commercial and
customary practice in an effort to minimize liability, which takes into account
and satisfies the "innocent landowner" provision set forth at 43 U.S.C. 9601
(35), such that consistent with generally accepted engineering practice and
procedure, no evidence or indication came to light which would suggest there
was a release of substances on the property which could necessitate an
environmental response action, and which demonstrates that the property and the
facility complies with, and does not deviate from, all applicable environmental
statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, including any licenses,
permits or certificates required thereunder.
   B.   The environmental audit shall also demonstrate that the property and
the improvements located thereon, if any, do not contain:
      1.   Asbestos in any form;
      2.   Urea formaldehyde;
      3.   Transformers or other equipment that contain fluid containing
polychlorinated biphenyles;
      4.   Underground storage tanks; or
      5.   Any other chemical, material or substance, the exposure to which is
prohibited, limited or regulated by any Federal, State, County, regional or
local authority (the "authorities") or which poses a hazard to the health and
safety of the occupants of the property or the facility, or the occupants of
adjacent property.
   C.   The environmental audit shall also demonstrate that the property and
facility are not, and have not been, the subject of any past, existing or
threatened investigation, inquiry or proceeding concerning environmental
matters by the authorities, and that no notice or submission concerning
environmental matters has been given or should be given with regard to the
property and the facility to the authorities. The environmental audit shall
demonstrate that the property and facility are not subject to, or covered by,
the requirements of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To- Know Act of
1986, 42 U.S.C. 11001, et seq., and that the property is not now being used and
has never been used for any activities involving directly or indirectly the
use, treatment, storage or disposal of any hazardous or toxic chemical,
material, substance or waste.
   D.   The grantor/dedicator of the property and/or facility acknowledges and
agrees that the Village shall not be obligated to take title to any land if, in
its sole and exclusive judgment, for any reason whatsoever (including, without
limitation, information revealed by the environmental audit) it determines that
the use or condition of the property, or any part thereof, poses a material
health, safety or environmental hazard. (Ord. 93-21-91)
TITLE 6
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Short Title
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Applicability to Existing Buildings
6-1-4: Compliance With Provisions
6-1-5: Building Officers
6-1-6: Architectural Design
6-1-7: Health and Safety Requirements
6-1-8: Violations
6-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as The Building Code of Oak Lawn.
(1951 Code 21-17-2)
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Words and terms used in this Chapter, not otherwise defined, shall have the
meanings defined in the zoning ordinance 1 . (1951 Code 21-1-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 4 of this Municipal Code.
6-1-3: APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING BUILDINGS:
In construing the several sections of this Chapter, said section shall not be
construed as requiring alterations in the construction or equipment of
buildings or structures in existence at the time of the passage of this
Chapter, unless specific provision is made to the contrary, or unless the
provision is expressly made retroactive, or unless such building shall not have
sufficient or adequate means of egress of ingress. (1951 Code 21-5-26)
6-1-4: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
Every building or structure or part thereof, hereafter constructed, erected,
altered, enlarged, maintained or repaired within the Village shall be so
constructed, erected, altered, enlarged, maintained or repaired in accordance
with the provisions of this Chapter. (1951 Code 21-5-24)
6-1-5: BUILDING OFFICERS:
   A.   Building Officers Designated: The title "building officers" when used
in this Chapter shall mean and include the Director of Office of Quality
Control, the Chief of Police, the Health and Sanitation Officer and all
inspectors and assistants, as provided for by the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Right of Entry Powers: Building officers and their duly authorized
inspectors are hereby empowered, during reasonable hours, to lawfully enter
upon any premises or into any building or structure, or portion thereof,
whether completed or in process of construction, alteration or repair, when
necessary to do so in performance of any duty imposed upon them by this Chapter
or the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance of the Village, or any order or
resolution of the Board of Trustees. (1951 Code 21-1-1, 21-1-2; Ord. 81-12-19)
6-1-6: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN:
Every building or structure hereinafter constructed, erected, altered or
enlarged, shall be so designed and constructed as to be suitable to its
environment from an architectural standpoint. (1951 Code 21-5-27)
6-1-7: HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of a building to keep in a safe
sanitary condition. (1951 Code 21-5-6)
6-1-8: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Resisting Officers: Any person hindering or attempting to hinder,
resisting, or attempting to resist, any building officer in the performance of
duty, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be charged with resisting an
officer.
   B.   Generally: Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this Chapter, or who shall refuse to remedy a violation of any such
provision, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day upon which such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (1951 Code 21-1-2, 21-17-1; 1985 Code)
ARTICLE A. BUILDING PERMITS AND FEES
SECTION:
6-1A-1: Permit Required
6-1A-2: Application For Permit, Accompanying Plans And Specifications
6-1A-3: Fees
6-1A-3-1: Building Permits
6-1A-3-2: Inspections
6-1A-3-3: Demolition Of Buildings
6-1A-3-4: Garages
6-1A-3-5: Street And Parkway Restoration Bond
6-1A-3-6: Use Of Water During Construction
6-1A-3-7: Exemptions From Payment Of Fees
6-1A-4: Bond Requirements
6-1A-5: Issuance Of Permit, Restrictions
6-1A-6: Construction Commencement, Requirements And Restrictions
6-1A-7: Temporary Permits
6-1A-8: Exemptions From Provisions
6-1A-9: Certificate Of Occupancy Fee
6-1A-10: Rear Lot Drainage Deposits
6-1A-11: Protection Of Sidewalks And Streets During Construction
6-1A-12: Contractor Licensing And Registration, Generally
6-1A-13: Contractor License And Registration Application
6-1A-14: Contractor Definitions
6-1A-15: License And Registration Fees
6-1A-16: Contractor License Fee Exemption
6-1A-17: Contractor Insurance Requirements
6-1A-18: Issuance Of Building Permits
6-1A-19: License Revocation And Reinstatement
6-1A-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before proceeding with the erection, construction, alteration, addition,
repair, removal, demolition or the excavation for any building or structure in
the Village, a permit for such erection, construction, alteration, addition,
repair, removal, demolition or excavation shall first be obtained by the owner
or his agent from the Director of Office of Quality Control as provided herein.
(1951 Code 21-2-4; Ords. 79-34-72, 81-12-19, 20-08-21)
6-1A-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT, ACCOMPANYING PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Application for building permits shall be made by the owner or his
agent to the Director of Office of Quality Control on forms prepared and kept
on file in the office of said Director. Such application shall describe the
location of the proposed work by setting forth the correct legal description of
the land upon which the building, structure or part thereof is to be erected,
constructed, added, altered or repaired and the street name and number assigned
to the site, the real estate permanent index number, volume and item of the
Cook County Collector's tax warrant for the last year in which general real
estate taxes were assessed; the purpose for which the building or structure is
designed to be used; the length, width and height thereof; the number of rooms;
the total cost of the work proposed to be done under the permit sought; the
name and address of the owner or his agent or architect; and the names of the
licensed general contractors. Said application for a building permit shall also
be accompanied by a plat of survey, showing the proposed location of the
building to be erected on said lot, piece or parcel of land and an agreement to
be signed by the owner, his agent or architect, conditioned that he or his duly
authorized agent or architect, if granted the permit sought, will construct the
work in accordance with the description set forth in the application and
accompanying plans and specifications.
   B.   Applications for building permits (including garages) shall also be
accompanied by a plot plan in triplicate and a full set of plans and
specifications which shall be sufficiently complete so that the proposed
structure could be constructed therefrom by a competent contractor, builder or
engineer without further directions of any kind. Said plot plan and full set of
plans and specifications shall be reviewed by the Department of Quality Control
for compliances with the Village Code. When plans for specifications are
submitted for large, unique or complicated buildings or projects, the Director
of Office of Quality Control may send them to an independent, third-party
agency for plan review. The cost of such review shall be borne by the permit
applicant and is in addition to any such other fees charged by the Village. If
the plot plan and full set of plans and specifications are in compliance with
the Village Code, the three (3) copies of the plot plan shall be stamped
approved and initialed by the Director of Office of Quality Control. One copy
shall be returned to the applicant, one copy filed at the Village Hall, and one
copy retained by said Director.
   C.   All such plans and drawings shall be drawn to a scale of not less than
one-eighth of an inch to the foot (1/8" = 1') on paper or cloth in ink, or by
some process that will not fade or obliterate. All distances and dimensions
shall be accurately figured and drawings made explicit and complete, showing
the lot lines and the location of all plumbing fixtures within such building.
   D.   No permit shall be granted or plans approved unless such plans are made
and signed by such persons as are permitted under the laws of the State to make
plans for buildings as provided in "An Act to provide for the licensing of
architects and regulating the practice of architecture as a profession and to
repeal certain Acts therein named", approved June 24, 1919, and amendments
thereto, or in "An Act to revise the law in relation to the regulation of the
practice of structural engineering" approved June 24, 1919, and amendments
thereto 1 . The architect's seal and identification registration number shall
be attached to the original of said plans filed with the Director of Office of
Quality Control.
   E.   True copies of so much of said plans as may be required, in the opinion
of the Director of Office of Quality Control, to illustrate the features of
construction and equipment of the building referred to, shall be filed with the
Director of Office of Quality Control and shall remain on file in his office.
   F.   Complete plans and specifications of buildings for public or business
use for which permits are granted shall remain on file permanently in said
Director's office.
   G.   In all cases, the approved plan or plans, together with building
permits, must be kept on the premises while the work is in progress.
   H.   No deviation from the approved plans shall be allowed unless revised
plans are resubmitted for approval and approval in writing is granted by the
director of quality control.
   I.   All applications for permits issued under this Article A shall be
accompanied by a copy of each contractor's or subcontractor's current state and
Village licenses, registrations, and certifications, as applicable, as well as
proof of insurance in accordance with Section
6-1A-17. No permits shall be granted to a roofing contractor or subcontractor
without said contractor having first filed with the department of quality
control a copy (or copies, as applicable) of said contractor's current State of
Illinois and Village contractor licenses, registrations, and certifications and
the required proof of insurance.
   J.   Applications for building permits for new buildings or additions to
existing buildings shall be accompanied by a tree preservation plan. Said plan
shall consist of a survey of the parcel in question on which existing trees are
identified, with an indication as to whether said trees are to remain or be cut
down as a result of the proposed construction. Said plan shall be reviewed by
the village forester, and no permit shall be issued until the plan has been
approved by the village forester.
   K.   As a prerequisite to the issuance of any new or renewed business
license, each applicant shall submit to the business license department a
certificate of rodent abatement issued by a licensed exterminator. A copy of
the current rodent abatement certificate shall be kept on file with the
business license department at all times during the effectiveness of any
license.
      Applications for building permits for new commercial buildings, including
those for additions or demolition to existing buildings shall be accompanied by
a site-rodent abatement plan.
      1.   Prior to any demolition or excavation at a new commercial
construction site the owner of the site shall prepare a rodent control
management plan for the detection, inspection and treatment of rodents at the
site. At a minimum, the plan shall include provisions for abatement of the site
by a structural pest control company licensed by the State of Illinois by means
of above-ground bait boxes around the perimeter of the site until all
excavation is completed.
      2.   The owner shall maintain a written record of the plan and any pest
control measures performed by pest management professional at the site and
include any reports and receipts prepared by the structural pest control
company. The plan and records shall be maintained at the new construction site
until construction at the site is completed and open to inspection upon request
by authorized village personnel, including but not limited to employees of the
departments of streets and sanitation and buildings.
      3.   Commercial construction or demolition projects requiring excavation
must include rodent abatement on an as needed basis for all properties within a
three (3) city-block radius of the demolition site during the time of the
demolition project and up to but not more than ninety (90) days after the
demolition project is complete. Any abatement measures on properties included
within the three (3) city-block radius requires the individual property owner's
authorization;
         a.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall
be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense to which a separate fine shall
apply.
         b.   In addition to any other available penalties and remedies
provided, one or more violations of this section at the site may result in a
stop work order issued by the department that issued the citation, directing
that all activity cease for ten (10) days. Any further citation for violation
at the same new construction site within six months after the initial stop work
order may result in the issuance of another ten (10) day stop work order. The
department that issued the ten (10)-day stop work order under this section
shall lift that order only if sufficient evidence of compliance with this
section is provided to the department.
         c.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly violate a stop
work order issued under this section, or to knowingly cause, permit, encourage,
assist, aid, abet or direct another person to violate a stop work order issued
under this section, or to knowingly in any manner be a party to a violation of
a stop work order issued under this section.
         Any person who violates this subsection upon conviction shall be
punished, as follows:
         (1)   Incarceration for a term not less than three days nor more than
six (6) months; or
         (2)   Community service of not less than 10 hours, nor more than one
hundred (100) hours; or
         (3)   A fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
      6.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly destroy, deface,
remove, damage, impair, mar, cover or obstruct any stop work order issued under
this section that a village official has posted or affixed at a work site.
      7.   Any person who violates this subsection upon conviction shall be
punished, as follows:
         a.   Incarceration for a term not less than three days, nor more than
six (6) months; or
         b.   Community service of not less than ten (10) hours, nor more than
one hundred (100) hours; or
         c.   A fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
The department of community development is authorized to enforce this section.
All references in Title 6 of the Village Code to the "department of quality
control" shall be interpreted to include the "department of community
development." (1951 Code 21-2-7; Ords. 51, 81-12-19, 86-6-15, 87-9-31, 87-9-32,
97-12-57, 20-08-21, 25-08-16)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 305/1 et seq., and 225 ILCS 330/1 et seq., respectively.
6-1A-3: FEES:
6-1A-3-1: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Building Construction: The fees to be charged for building permits for
erecting, altering, repairing or adding to buildings shall be twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) for any structure of which the estimated cost is not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
and twelve dollars fifty cents ($12.50) for each additional one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) of estimated cost or part thereof.
   B.   Permit Renewal: Any building permit issued as herein provided, and
which has expired by the terms thereof as provided in subsection
6-1A-6B of this article, may be renewed by payment of an additional fee of
fifty percent (50%) of the original building permit and water/sewer fee.
      1.   If a permit expires by failure to begin construction operations
within six (6) months of the date of issuance of the permit, the permittee must
renew the permit within the succeeding six (6) months or all fees paid therefor
shall be forfeited to the village and the permit, along with zoning ordinance
variations if any, shall become null and void.
      2.   If a permit expires by failure to complete the building within one
year after the date of issuance of the permit, the permittee must renew the
permit within the succeeding three (3) months and before a final inspection is
made or the permits, along with the zoning ordinance variations if any, shall
become null and void. Furthermore, the permittee shall be required to restore
the property back to its original condition by removing any construction
thereon, and if the permittee does not do so, the village, through its
employees, or agents, shall remove same and recover its expenses by the filing
of a lien on the property.
   C.   Cancellation Of Permit: If a permit has been issued and all fees have
been paid and the permittee wishes to cancel the permit within a period of six
(6) months from the date of issuance, an amount in the sum of forty percent
(40%) of the building construction fee, or a minimum of ten twenty dollars
($120.00), whichever amount is greater, shall be retained by the village for
costs incurred by the village for plan review, processing, records and other
expenses.
   D.   Minor Improvement Permit Fees: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
set forth in this article, a permit shall be required for minor improvements to
a structure or building with respect to roofing, siding and deck installation.
The fees for said permits shall be as follows:
 
Type Of Permit  Fee
Roofing
   Residentia$50.00
   Commercial$100.00
Siding          $50.00
Decking         $50.00
 
(1951 Code 21-2-12; Ords. 74-25-46, 76-16-30, 82-23-83; 1985 Code; Ords. 87-9-
32, 94-4-13, 05-23-86, 08-17-46, 08-19-55, 21-07-29)
6-1A-3-2: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Generally: All work performed under any permit issued pursuant hereto
must be inspected and approved by the appropriate inspectors of the building
department. There shall be at least four (4) inspections on each single-family
residence building and as many as deemed necessary by the director of the
office of quality control on all other types of buildings. The fee for
inspections shall be as follows:
 
Single-family buildings:
New buildings            $ 50.00
Additions or alterations 50.00
Two-family buildings     100.00
Multiple-family          100.00
                         plus $30.00 per unit over 2 units
 
All other types of buildings based on gross square feet, as follows:
 
0 -      1,500     $ 75.00
1,501 -  2,500     100.00
2,501 -  5,000     125.00
5,001 -  7,500     150.00
7,501 -  10,000    175.00
10,001 - 50,000    200.00
   50,001 and ov250.00
 
The above fee schedule for buildings is based on normal construction practices
and use groups. If a building is in any way unique, then the inspection fees
shall be based on an estimated number of inspections necessary to adequately
ensure proper construction. A certificate of occupancy will only be issued
after all inspection fees have been paid to the village.
When the building being constructed is large, unique, complicated, or involves
extensive or unique structural problems, the director of the office of quality
control may bring in an independent, third party agency to perform the
inspections of the building in question. The cost for such independent, third
party agency inspections shall be borne by the permit applicant and is in
addition to any other fees charged by the village.
   B.   Reinspections: If a building fails to pass inspection and a
reinspection is necessary then a reinspection fee of forty dollars ($40.00)
shall be charged which shall be paid before the reinspection is made.
   C.   Stop Work Orders: If it is necessary to post and enforce a stop work
order, the stop work order will not be removed until a twenty five dollar
($25.00) fee is paid by the permittee. (Ords. 87-9-32, 94-4-13, 08-17-46, 08-
19-55, 21-07-29)
6-1A-3-3: DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS:
The fees to be charged for demolishing entire existing buildings and related
structures shall be as follows:
 
Type Of Structure                          Fee     Cleanup Bond
Residential garage and accessory buildings $ 50.00 $ 100.00
All single-family homes                    150.00  500.00
All other structures                       250.00  1,000.00
 
Upon written recommendation of the building department and written
authorization by the village manager, fees and/or bonds may be modified or
waived in instances where it is determined that it is in the best interest of
the village to do so. (Ords. 87-9-32, 94-4-13, 05-23-86, 21-07-29)
6-1A-3-4: GARAGES:
The permit fee for garages of one hundred (100) square feet or more shall be
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). This fee shall be inclusive and include
all inspection and occupancy permit fees except optional electrical permits.
(Ords. 94-4-13, 05-23-86, 21-07-29)
6-1A-3-5: STREET AND PARKWAY RESTORATION BOND:
Before any building permits are issued by the village, a cash bond in the
amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be deposited with the village to
ensure the safety of the street and parkway areas during construction, and the
complete restoration and cleanup of the street and parkway. Said bond shall be
drawn upon by the village in the event that the depositor thereof fails to
restore or clean up the street and/or parkway after having been instructed to
do so, in writing, by the village. Upon completion of construction and all
street and parkway restoration and cleanup, the remainder of the bond shall be
returned to the depositor; provided, however, that nothing herein contained
shall preclude the village from maintaining an action against any person to
recover the damage done to any street or parkway area. (Ords. 87-9-32, 94-4-13)
6-1A-3-6: USE OF WATER DURING CONSTRUCTION:
In addition to the permit fees named in this section, there shall be paid the
fee for water used in connection with and during the construction of buildings
based on the following schedule:
   A.   The fee for single-family residential buildings shall be four hundred
seventy five dollars ($475.00) per building for water used in construction.
   B.   The fee for all other buildings shall be based on gross square foot
area of all floors of the building to be constructed, as follows:
   Square FeeFee    
   Square Feet  Fee    
0 - 1,500         $ 950.00
1,501 - 5,000     1,270.00
5,001 - 10,000    1,583.00
10,001 - 50,000   1,900.00
50,001 - 100,000  2,217.00
100,001 - 150,000 2,533.00
150,001 - 250,000 2,850.00
Over 250,000      3,167.00
 
(Ord. 08-19-55)
6-1A-3-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM PAYMENT OF FEES:
All building permit fees provided for in this chapter are waived as to all
governmental entities, churches, and eleemosynary institutions; provided,
however, that they shall be required to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the
plumbing and electrical inspection fees and one hundred percent (100%) of the
elevator review/inspection fees 1 . (Ord. 12-27-88)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-2A-2 of this title for electrical inspection fees.
6-1A-4: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Generally: The following bonds shall be deposited, in cash, with the
village before a building permit, electrical permit, or plumbing permit is
issued which requires said bonds. The bond inspection fee is for inspection of
the site and is not refundable. The cash bonds shall be refunded to the person
making the deposit within thirty (30) days after the operating departments have
inspected the site and have certified that all requirements of this chapter
have been complied with by the permittee. The cash bonds shall not be refunded
if work remains to be completed by the permittee to meet the requirements of
this chapter. If the permittee refuses or is unable to complete the work, the
village shall send written notice to the permittee, at the address listed on
the permit, that work shall be completed. If the work is not satisfactorily
completed within thirty (30) days after the notice, the village shall cause the
work to be completed, (including a 25 percent village administration fee) with
payment for said work to be deducted from the cash bonds and any remainder
refunded to the permittee. If the bonds are not sufficient to cover the
payment, the full amount of the bonds shall be forfeited and the permittee
shall be billed for the difference. Any bond remaining after four (4) years of
deposit shall be forfeited to the village to cover administrative costs.
   B.   Single-Family Residences; New Construction:
      1.   The general contractor shall deposit a five hundred dollar ($500.00)
cash bond for each single-family residence and shall pay a twenty five dollar
($25.00) inspection fee.
      2.   The drain layer and/or plumbing contractor shall deposit a five
hundred dollar ($500.00) cash bond for each single-family residence and shall
pay a twenty five dollar ($25.00) inspection fee.
      3.   The electrical contractor shall deposit a five hundred dollar
($500.00) cash bond for each single-family residence and shall pay a twenty
five dollar ($25.00) inspection fee.
   C.   Single-Family Residences; Existing Residence:
      1.   Residential building which is to be owner occupied: The amount of
the bond shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) where the amount of
construction work being permitted is five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more
and shall pay a twenty five dollar ($25.00) inspection fee. For work less than
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), the amount of the bond shall be two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) and shall pay a twenty five dollar ($25.00) inspection
fee. An additional plumbing bond of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and
nonrefundable twenty five dollar ($25.00) inspection fee and an additional
electrical bond of five hundred dollars ($500.00) along with a nonrefundable
twenty five dollar ($25.00) inspection fee shall be required.
      2.   Vacant residential building which is to be non-owner occupied: The
amount of the bond shall be ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and a
nonrefundable twenty five dollar ($25.00) inspection fee for any residential
building which is being rehabilitated where the building has been vacant just
prior to acquisition thereof and the building will be non-owner occupied after
rehabilitation. An additional plumbing bond of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
with a nonrefundable twenty five dollar ($25.00) inspection fee and an
additional electrical bond of five hundred dollars ($500.00) with a
nonrefundable twenty five dollar ($25.00) inspection fee shall be required.
This category covers buildings which are being substantially rehabilitated for
sale or for rent. A structure is "non-owner occupied" if the person or entity
which purchased the property and is making or contracting for the improvements
does not occupy the same as their principal residence for at least twelve (12)
months after the certificate of occupancy is issued. Such structure must be
entitled to a homeowner's exemption from the Cook County assessor for that
entire twelve (12) month period in order to be owner occupied.
   D.   Multiple-Family Buildings:
      1.   The general contractor shall deposit a cash bond for each building
in the amount shown in the following table.
      2.   The electrical contractor as well as the plumber and/or drain laying
contractor shall deposit an additional and separate cash bond for each building
in the amount shown in the following table.
      3.   In each case, a twenty five dollar ($25.00) inspection fee shall be
paid for each bond required on each and every separate building.
 
Apartment Units      Amount Of
For Each Building    Cash Bond
2 units to 5 units   $ 750.00
6 units to 11 units  1,000.00
12 units to 23 units 2,000.00
24 units to 47 units 5,000.00
48 units and up      10,000.00
 
   E.   All Other Types Of Buildings:
      1.   The general contractor shall deposit a cash bond for each building
in the amount shown in the following table.
      2.   The electrical contractor, plumber and/or drain laying contractor
shall deposit an additional and separate cash bond for each building in the
amount shown in the following table.
      3.   In each case, a twenty five dollar ($25.00) inspection fee shall be
paid for each bond required on each and every separate building.
 
Gross Square Foot Amount Of
Area Of Building  Cash Bond
0 - 4,999         $ 750.00
5,000 - 9,999     1,000.00
10,000 - 19,999   2,000.00
20,000 - 49,999   5,000.00
50,000 and over   10,000.00
 
   F.   Street Openings:
      1.   The plumber and drain layer contractor shall deposit a cash bond for
each street opening in the amount of four thousand dollars ($4,000.00). In each
case, a fifty dollar ($50.00) inspection fee shall be paid for each bond
required on each street opening.
   G.   Sidewalks:
      1.   A sidewalk installation bond shall be deposited with the village, in
cash, based upon ten dollars ($10.00) per linear foot. The sidewalk bond is in
addition to any other bond required in this chapter. A twenty five dollar
($25.00) inspection fee shall be paid for each bond required on each and every
separate site.
   H.   Occupation Of Streets During Construction:
      1.   Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   I.   Permanent Bonds:
      1.   As there are many contractors who do work within the village
continuously through the years, a permanent bond may be deposited with the
village in lieu of separate bonds for each and every building, street opening
and sidewalk. The permanent bond will be refunded only after a written request
is received by the village. Said request shall list the address of the last
work done within the village. The bond will be refunded after one year has
passed from the issuance of the last permit which required a bond. It is
understood that a general contractor permanent bond will include the general
bond as well as the sidewalk bond for all buildings he may build within the
village. However, if the general contractor has a permanent bond of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and wishes to construct multiple-family buildings,
he will be required to deposit additional money to bring his permanent bond up
to the required amount of the bond necessary for any given number of units
under multiple-family buildings as listed in the following table. If the
general contractor wishes to build a commercial building, he will be required
to deposit additional money to bring his permanent bond up to the required
amount of the bond necessary for any given gross square foot area as listed in
the following table. If the general contractor deposits a ten thousand dollar
($10,000.00) permanent cash bond with the village, he may build any type of
building, of any size, under the same permanent cash bond. If charges are made
against the permanent bond, no further permits shall be issued until the full
amount of the required permanent bond is restored. The following table shall
establish the type and amount of the permanent bonds required:
             Type Of Contractor
Type Of Bond General    Plumbing/Electrical/
             Contractor Drain Layer
                           Type Of Contractor
Type Of Bond               General    Plumbing/Electrical/
                           Contractor Drain Layer
Single-family residential  $ 1,000.00 $ 1,000.00
Multiple-family buildings:            
 2 units to 24 units      3,000.00   3,000.00
 24 units to 47 units     7,500.00   7,500.00
 48 units and up          10,000.00  10,000.00
All other buildings:                  
 0 - 20,000 sq. ft.       3,000.00   3,000.00
 20,000 sq. ft. and up    7,500.00   7,500.00
Street openings:                      
 3' - 8' water mains      7,500.00    
 
A twenty five dollar ($25.00) inspection fee shall be paid for each and every
permit used where a bond is required. (Ord. 13-17-65)
6-1A-5: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT, RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Permits authorized to be issued and required to be obtained under this
chapter shall be promptly issued by the director of office of quality control
when the application, approval of plans, filing of frontage consents (if any
are required) and giving of notices are all completed as in this code provided.
But this shall not be construed to deny to the director ample time to
investigate any matters.
   B.   No permits herein provided to be issued for the erection, construction,
alteration, repair or excavation for any wall, structure, building or any
portion thereof, for which a fee is prescribed by this chapter shall be in
force until the fees prescribed therefor shall have been paid.
   C.   The director of office of quality control shall not issue any permit
authorizing the erection, construction, alteration, addition or repair of any
building or structure unless the plans submitted for his approval clearly show
that such building or structure with all its appurtenances, foundations and
attachments can be erected entirely within the limits of the lot or tract of
land upon which it is proposed to erect such building or structure, except as
provided by this chapter and the zoning ordinance of the village 1 , and no
permit to construct or alter any building or structure shall authorize the use
of any part of any public highway or other public ground for the construction
or maintenance of such building or structure except as provided by this chapter
2 , nor shall any permit be issued for the construction or maintenance of any
balcony or canopy extending over any public highway or other public ground
unless permits therefor have been obtained from the village board pursuant to
an ordinance specifically authorizing the same. (1951 Code 21-2-7, 21-2-8; Ord.
81-12-19)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4 of this code.
2 2. See article B of this chapter.
6-1A-6: CONSTRUCTION COMMENCEMENT, REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Permit Card To Be Posted: As evidence that such permit has been issued,
the building permit card must be posted in the street side of the building when
excavation is started, and kept posted during the entire time of construction
and for ten (10) days after completion of the building.
   B.   Expiration Of Permit: If, after a permit has been granted, the
operations covered by said permit shall not be begun within six (6) months
after the date thereof, or if such operations are not completed within one year
from said date, then such permit shall expire by the terms thereof, and no
operations thereunder shall be begun or completed until a renewal of said
permit be obtained.
   C.   Deviations From Plans: It shall be unlawful to alter, or in any way
modify plans which have been approved by the director of office of quality
control. If during the progress of such work, it is desired to deviate, in any
manner affecting the construction or other essentials of the building, from the
terms of the application or drawing, notice of such intention to alter or
deviate shall be given to the director of office of quality control, and his
written assent shall first be obtained before the alteration or deviation may
be made; but alterations in buildings which do not involve any change in their
structural parts, or of their stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other
communications or ingress or egress, or in lighting or ventilation or in
plumbing or electric wiring, and that are not in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, or the provisions of the zoning ordinance, may be
made without the permission of the director of office of quality control. (1951
Code 21-2-4, 21-2-5, 21-2-9; Ord. 81-12-19)
6-1A-7: TEMPORARY PERMITS:
Where, in the judgment of the director of office of quality control, it is
justified, said director may authorize building operations to commence and
proceed for such limited time, not exceeding ten (10) days, as said director
may deem and fix as sufficient to allow the owner, his architect or agent to
complete the filing of detailed plans and other data required for the issuance
of the final permit. The application for a temporary permit shall furnish the
director of office of quality control with sufficient plans and data to enable
said director to determine that the work be commenced, and proposed
subsequently to be done, is of a lawful nature. Temporary permits shall be
revocable at the will of the director. (1951 Code 21-2-10; Ord. 81-12-19)
6-1A-8: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
A permit will not be required for ordinary repair work incidental to the upkeep
of a building or structure; provided there is not contemplated nor involved,
any change in the classification or use or any increase in the fire hazard
thereof; nor the removal or installing of any external wall; nor the removal of
any supporting wall, column, post, truss, girder or beam; nor the installing,
closing or changing of any stairs, exits, scuttles, skylights or fire escapes;
nor changing the number, location or connections of the fixtures, traps, vents,
waste, soil or drain pipes of the plumbing system; nor changing the number,
location or connections of the fixtures of the electrical system.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted or construed to allow any work
included in the permit exemptions hereof to be done in any manner contrary to
the requirements of this building code and other laws of the village. (1951
Code 21-2-6)
6-1A-9: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY FEE:
A fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be charged for each certificate of
occupancy as required by section
4-3-4 of this code. (Ord. 94-4-13)
6-1A-10: REAR LOT DRAINAGE DEPOSITS:
   A.   Findings: In regard to the issue of rear lot drainage, the president
and board of trustees find as follows:
      1.   That pursuant to this code, all property owners whose property is
determined by the director of quality control to have drainage problems must
have rear lot drainage installed at the time the property is subdivided and/or
built upon.
      2.   As an accommodation, the village allows subdividers and/or builders
to deposit money into the rear lot drainage fund, in lieu of constructing the
required rear lot drainage.
      3.   That even with the aforementioned deposits, the village is required
to subsidize the cost of installing rear lot drainage when said is installed.
   B.   Deposit Required: In lieu of installing rear lot drainage at the time
of the subdividing of the property or at the time building permits are
obtained, a subdivider and/or builder may make a nonrefundable deposit into the
rear lot drainage fund based on the following:
      1.   Twelve dollars ($12.00) per front foot of the lot(s) involved
relative to any R-1 or R-2 zoning district building permit.
      2.   Four dollars fifty cents ($4.50) per front foot of the lot(s)
involved relative to any subdivision application.
   C.   Use Of Funds: Funds deposited in the rear lot drainage fund shall be
used exclusively by the village for the construction of rear lot drainage at
those locations as determined by the village most in need of rear lot drainage.
(Ord. 94-4-13)
6-1A-11: PROTECTION OF SIDEWALKS AND STREETS DURING CONSTRUCTION:
During the construction of any building or structure on any property within the
village, if the portion of the property immediately abutting any street or
sidewalk, including the parkway area between the street and sidewalk, is not
landscaped with either a lawn or other landscaping materials, so as to prevent
erosion and the deposit of dirt and/or sediment upon such street or sidewalk,
the owner of the property in question, as well as any contractors working
thereon, shall be responsible for the proper erection and maintenance of a silt
fence at all locations where the property, including the parkway area between
the street and the sidewalk, abuts a street or sidewalk. Said silt fences shall
be maintained in proper working order until a lawn, or other landscaping
materials is/are installed to prevent the deposit of dirt and/or sediment upon
the street or sidewalk. (Ord. 96-19-88)
6-1A-12: CONTRACTOR LICENSING AND REGISTRATION, GENERALLY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a person to act or perform any work or
services as a contractor or subcontractor within the Village without first
having been licensed by or registered with the Village's Department of
Community Development, as herein provided. All contractor's licenses and
registrations under this Article A will be valid for one (1) year from the date
of issuance.
   B.   All contractors and subcontractors, as defined in Section
6-1A-14, performing work or services within the village shall comply with the
provisions of the Village Code and all ordinances for minimum building
standards regulated within the corporate limits of the village and shall comply
with all licensing and registration requirements of the State of Illinois and
the Village, including without limitation Sections
6-1A-12 through
6-1A-19 of this Article.
   C.   All general contractors and subcontractors licensed or registered under
Sections
6-1A-12 through
6-1A-19 of this Article A shall be responsible for any and all employees
working for them under the license or registration.
   D.   All general contractors shall hire only subcontractors who are licensed
through the State of Illinois when and if specified by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes (ILCS).
   E.   Licenses and registrations are issued for a twelve (12)-month period.
At the expiration of the period, the license or registration must be renewed to
continue performing work within the Village.
   F.   The contractor shall be solely responsible for the timely renewal of
their contractor's license or registration on an annual basis. It is expressly
understood that the Village is under no obligation to provide notice or
reminders to the contractor regarding the renewal of the license or
registration. The contractor is expected to be aware of and adhere to all
applicable renewal deadlines and procedures as set forth by the municipality.
(Ord. 25-08-16)
6-1A-13: CONTRACTOR LICENSE AND REGISTRATION APPLICATION:
   A.   Application required. All applications for a village contractor's
license or registration shall be made in writing or submitted electronically
upon forms furnished by the village.
   B.   Each application shall state:
      1.   The name, physical business address, business phone number, email
address, and type of legal business structure (Individual/Sole Proprietorship,
Partnership, or Corporation).
      2.   Whether the application is for a general contractor or subcontractor
license or registration. If it is a general contractor with tradesmen, a list
of trades and tradesmen performing each trade shall be provided. A
subcontractor will be required to list the trade or trades involved.
      3.   The application must be signed.
   C.   Electrical and Alarm Contractors are required to provide the name of
the Supervising Electrician, Type of License, city it was Issued, and License
number.
   D.   Plumbing and Lawn Sprinkler Contractors must provide and maintain a
current copy of their City of Chicago or State of Illinois Plumbing License
with the Village's Department of Community Development.
   E.   Roofing, Fire Alarm, and Fire Sprinkler contractors must provide and
maintain a current copy of their State License with the Village's Department of
Community Development.
   F.   Each application shall include a valid Certificate of Insurance, as
required in Section
6-1A-17 of this Article. (Ord. 25-08-16)
6-1A-14: CONTRACTOR DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of contractor licensing and registration under this Article,
the following definitions shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
CONTRACTOR: Any person, partnership, corporation or other business entity
engaged in the business of constructing, altering or repairing buildings or
other structures or lots and all trades and crafts associated with such work,
including but not restricted to, general building contractors, excavating
contractors, carpentry contractors, hearing, air conditioning, ventilating,
mechanical, electrical and plumbing contractors and "subcontractor" as defined
below.
SUBCONTRACTOR: A contractor who performs only the type of work that is
classified as a specific trade, such as, but not limited to, carpentry,
roofing, and electrical. (Ord. 25-08-16)
6-1A-15: LICENSE AND REGISTRATION FEES:
Except as provided in Section
6-1A-15, the annual fee for all contractors' licenses and registrations is one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
The license or registration is valid for one year from the date of issuance.
Yearly renewal is required if the Contractor continues to perform work within
the Village. (Ord. 25-08-16)
6-1A-16: CONTRACTOR LICENSE FEE EXEMPTION:
   A.   The following contractors must be licensed by the State of Illinois if
they are performing any work within the Village boundaries:
      1.   Roofing;
      2.   Fire Alarm;
      3.   Fire Sprinkler;
      4.   Plumbing;
      5.   Interior designer;
      6.   Lawn Sprinkler; and
      7.   Residential maintenance landscaper;
   Contractors listed in this section must still register with the Village's
Department of Community Development on an annual basis. Registration is valid
for one year from the date of contractor registration issuance. There is no
annual fee for registration.
   B.   A contractor who has obtained a valid business license from the
Village, and who has paid the applicable business license fee, shall be exempt
from paying a separate contractor license or registration fee, provided that
the business license covers all activities conducted by the contractor within
the scope of their professional work This exemption shall apply only if the
contractor's business license is current, active, and in good standing, and it
is specifically authorized by the Village's business licensing regulations. The
contractor shall remain subject to all other requirements of contractor
licensing and registration, including compliance with applicable laws,
regulations, and industry standards. In the event that the contractor's
business license is revoked, suspended, or otherwise invalidated, the
contractor shall be required to pay the appropriate contractor license fee, in
addition to any other applicable fees, before being permitted to perform work
requiring such a license or registration within the Village. (Ord. 25-08-16)
6-1A-17: CONTRACTOR INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
All contractors must provide and maintain with the Village's Department of
Community Development a valid certificate of insurance naming the Village as a
certificate holder and evidencing general liability coverage five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence minimum) and the State of
Illinois Mandated Workers Compensation Coverage. (Ord. 25-08-16)
6-1A-18: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS:
All contractors and subcontractors must be licensed or registered in accordance
with this Article prior to being issued any building permits by the Village.
Any change in the general contractor or subcontractors once a permit has been
issued shall be put in writing by the general contractor, or by the
subcontractor if no general contractor is present, within three business days
of such change, and delivered to the Department of Community Development. (Ord.
25-08-16)
6-1A-19: LICENSE REVOCATION AND REINSTATEMENT:
Any license or registration issued under the provisions of this Article A may
be revoked by the Community Development Director as deemed appropriate for
violation(s) of any of the provisions of Title 6 of the Village Code that is
not remedied within fourteen (14) days from the date of a notice of violation
(s), or within any extension of time as determined by the Community Development
Director in his/her discretion. Such revocation shall be in addition to fines
or penalties imposed and subject to the following:
   A.   No person whose license or registration has been revoked as herein
provided shall be eligible for a reinstated or new license for a period of up
to one year, to be determined by the Community Development Director based upon
the severity of the violation. A fifty dollar ($50.00) administrative fee shall
be paid to the village prior to any approved contractor license or registration
reinstatement.
   B.   All appeals from the action of the Community Development Director to
revoke a contractor's or subcontractor's license or registration shall be filed
within ten (10) days of such action with the Village Manager who shall conduct
a hearing on such revocation.
   C.   The Community Development Director when deemed appropriate may refuse
to issue or reinstate a license in the event that any of the provisions of this
Article A, which are conditions precedent to the issuance of the license, have
not been met. Contractors and subcontractors have the right to appeal the
denial of a license or registration by filing an appeal with the Village
Manager within ten (10) business days of the denial. The Village Manager shall
conduct a hearing on such appeal. (Ord. 25-08-16)
ARTICLE B. OCCUPATION OF STREETS
SECTION:
6-1B-1: Permit Required
6-1B-2: Application For Permit, Issuance
6-1B-3: Bond
6-1B-4: Term Of Permit
6-1B-5: Occupation Requirements And Restrictions
6-1B-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to deposit or store upon the street, parkway, sidewalk or
alley abutting upon or adjacent to the lot or tract, upon which any building or
structure is being erected, constructed, altered or repaired, or upon any
street, parkway, sidewalk or alley within the village, any building materials,
tools, apparatus or structure designed or intended to be used in the erection,
construction, alteration or repair of buildings, unless a street occupation
permit is first obtained from the director of office of quality control. Unless
such street occupation permit is obtained, all such building materials, tools,
apparatus or structures, when first delivered, shall be placed entirely within
the boundary lines of such lot or tract, and shall so remain until the
completion of such building or structure or until finally removed from such lot
or tract. (1951 Code 21-3-14; Ord. 81-12-19)
6-1B-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT, ISSUANCE:
All applications for street occupation permits shall be made to the director of
office of quality control and shall describe the location of the street,
parkway, sidewalk or alley proposed to be occupied, the use to be made of the
same, and the length of time of such intended occupation.
Street occupation permits shall be issued subject to the provisions of this
article as to bonds 1 , fees and all other requisites in connection with such
permit. (1951 Code 21-3-15; Ord. 81-12-19)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-1A-3-5 of this chapter.
6-1B-3: BOND:
Before the director of office of quality control shall issue a street
obstruction permit, the applicant for such permit shall file with the village
clerk, on a form to be furnished by the village and approved by the village
attorney, a bond as provided in subsection 6-1A-4H of this chapter and
conditioned to indemnify, save and keep harmless the village from any and all
loss, costs, expense or liability of any kind whatsoever which the village may
suffer or be put to, or which may be recovered from it by reason of the
issuance of such permit, or by reason of any act or thing done, or neglected to
be done under or by virtue of the authority given in such permit. An annual
bond may be given to cover street obstruction permits. (1951 Code 21-3-19)
6-1B-4: TERM OF PERMIT:
The permission to occupy streets, parkways, sidewalks or alleys for the
purposes of building, is intended only for imperative use in connection with
the actual erection, repair, alteration or removal of buildings, and shall
terminate with the completion of such operation and at as much earlier time as
shall be feasible, at which time the person to whom the occupation permit has
been issued shall remove all materials and equipment and shall place the
street, parkway, sidewalk or alley in as neat and serviceable condition as
prior to the occupation thereof. (1951 Code 21-3-16)
6-1B-5: OCCUPATION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Extent Of Occupation: The occupation of a street for the storage of
building materials shall never extend more than one- third (1/3) of the way
across the street pavement or alley, nor to a greater extent than is authorized
by the permit.
   B.   Location: It shall not be lawful to occupy with building materials, any
street, parkway, sidewalk or alley or any part thereof, other than that
immediately in front of or adjoining the lot or land upon which the building is
being erected; provided, that if the written consent of the owners, tenants or
occupants of properties adjoining the site of any proposed building is first
obtained and filed with the director of office of quality control, the
occupation of the street, parkway, sidewalk or alley may be extended in front
of the property so consenting, upon the same terms and conditions as those
fixed for the occupation of the street in front of the building site.
   C.   Mixing Concrete Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to mix mortar,
concrete or any other building material upon the surface of any sidewalk in the
village.
   D.   Sidewalk To Be Provided: During the progress of building operations, a
sidewalk not less than five feet (5') in width, or an equal width, of a clear,
hard roadway, made available and safe for a footway, and with adequate
guardrailings, shall at all times be kept open, clean and unobstructed for the
purpose and uses of a passageway in front of such a lot or lots.
   E.   Driveways: It is not intended hereby to prohibit the maintenance of a
driveway for the delivery of material across a sidewalk from the street to the
building site; but such driveway shall be under the supervision of the director
of office of quality control.
   F.   Barricades And Lights:
      1.   Any person to whom a building or street occupation permit is issued
shall erect and maintain such substantial and suitable fences, railings or
barricades, to guard all excavations, embankments or obstructions along the
street, parkway, sidewalk or alley abutting upon or adjacent to such lot or
tract as the director of office of quality control deems necessary for the
protection of the lives and limbs of the public; and shall place and maintain
proper and sufficient red lights to protect the public using such street or
sidewalk. Such lights shall be placed at each end of every such obstruction or
excavation and at intervals of not more than seventy five feet (75') along the
same.
      2.   Any person who maliciously or wantonly, and without legal cause,
removes, extinguishes, diminishes or disturbs such light or removes or disturbs
such barricades or lights, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   G.   Cleaning Streets: The permittee shall be, responsible for maintaining
the streets in a reasonably clean condition. However, as construction work does
produce mud and dirt on the streets and in storm sewer catch basins, there
shall be a fee paid for street cleaning before a permit is issued 1 . (1951
Code 21-3-17, 21-3-18; 1969 Code 6-52; Ord. 81-12-19)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-1A-3-5 of this chapter.
ARTICLE C. ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY BUILDINGS
SECTION:
6-1C-1: Regulations Adopted
6-1C-2: Additions, Insertions, Deletions And Changes
6-1C-3: Screened Room Additions
6-1C-1: REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The international residential code for one- and two-family dwellings, 2018
edition, published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this article with the same force and effect as if
it were specifically and particularly set forth herein, and all regulations
contained therein, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes
prescribed in section
6-1C-2 of this article, shall apply to all buildings for residential purposes.
One copy of said code shall be retained on file in the office of the clerk.
Where any provision of the international residential code for one- and two-
family dwellings, 2018 edition, conflict with any provisions of this village
code, the provisions of the village code shall prevail and shall be applied as
law of the village. (Ords. 14-04-10, 21-07-29)
6-1C-2: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, DELETIONS AND CHANGES:
The provisions of the international residential code for one- and two-family
dwellings, 2012 edition, are revised as follows:
   A.   Single-family buildings shall have the following minimum area, unless
otherwise provided in the zoning ordinance 1 :
1 floor, 2 bedrooms:       
 Without basement        1,008 sq. ft.
 With basement           950 sq. ft.
1 floor, 3 bedrooms:       
 Without basement        1,120 sq. ft.
 With basement           1,064 sq. ft.
11/2 story:                
 2nd floor not finished:  
 Without basement        1,008 sq. ft.
 With basement           950 sq. ft.
 2nd floor finished:      
 Without basement        900 sq. ft.
 With basement           850 sq. ft.
2 story:                   
 Without basement        672 sq. ft.
 With basement           622 sq. ft.
 
   B.   The following sections are revised as follows:
Part 1 - Administrative; Chapter 4 - Foundations
R-105.2 Work Exempt From Permit.
One-story detached accessory structures, provided the floor area does not
exceed 100 square feet.
Fences not over 2 feet high.
Sidewalks and Driveways.
R-309.5 Delete the entire section.
R-313 Delete the entire section.
R-402.1 Delete "wood foundations" from the paragraph.
R-403.1 Amend to read "All exterior walls shall be supported on solid concrete
footings or other approved structural systems which...".
R-403.1.1 The minimum spread footing size shall be 10" thick, 20" wide.
R-404.1 Delete the entire paragraph (Masonry foundation walls).
R-404.1.1 Delete the entire paragraph (Masonry foundation walls).
R-404.2 Delete the entire section through 404.2.6 - Wood Foundation Walls.
Part IV - Energy Conservation
Chapter 11 - Energy Efficiency Delete in its entirety.
Part IV - Plumbing
Chapters 25 through 33 Delete in their entirety.
(See Chicago plumbing code, 2003)
Part VIII - Electrical
Chapters 34 through 43 Delete in their entirety.
(See Chicago electrical code, 2013)
(Ords. 14-04-10, 14-27-62, 21-07-29)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4 of this code.
6-1C-3: SCREENED ROOM ADDITIONS:
Notwithstanding the requirements of the regulations adopted pursuant to section
6-1C-1 of this article, a screened room addition to a single-family home may be
constructed without a forty two inch (42") deep concrete foundation provided
the following conditions are complied with:
   A.   The screened room addition shall be constructed with only framed
screens and no glass windows;
   B.   The nonframed screen portion of the screened room addition shall be of
a prefabricated manufactured construction with metallic (i.e., steel, aluminum)
roof rafters with metal leg supports, and with a covering of fiberglass,
canvas, aluminum or other durable material;
   C.   The screened room addition shall be constructed on a deck or concrete
slab, and the contractor constructing said screened room addition shall
certify, as part of the building permit application process, that the
contractor has examined the deck or concrete slab and has determined that it
will be structurally able to support the screened room addition;
   D.   The total area of the screened room addition shall not exceed two
hundred fifty (250) square feet;
   E.   The screened room addition shall not be located in the front yard;
   F.   No masonry construction or gypsum finishing shall be used in regard to
the screened room addition;
   G.   The screened room addition must comply with all applicable setback
regulations of this code;
   H.   The screened room addition must be constructed in full compliance with
all applicable wind and snow load regulations of this code;
   I.   No plumbing fixtures (i.e., sink, shower, tub or toilet) or piping may
be added to the screened room addition;
   J.   The screened room addition may not be artificially heated through the
use of electric baseboard heaters, natural gas forced air heating or other
artificial heating device; and
   K.   The screened room addition, once constructed, may not be further
enclosed.
Upon completion of the construction of a screened room addition that does not
have a forty two inch (42") deep concrete foundation, the village shall record,
at the property owner's expense, a notice, setting forth the foregoing
conditions applicable to the screened room addition, so that any subsequent
purchaser of the property on which the screened room addition has been
constructed will be put on notice in relation to the conditions applicable to
said screened room addition. (Ord. 05-12-37)
ARTICLE D. MULTI-FAMILY, COMMERCIAL, ASSEMBLY, MANUFACTURING AND PUBLIC
BUILDINGS
SECTION:
6-1D-1: Regulations Adopted
6-1D-2: Amendments To Code
6-1D-3: Facing Material (Rep. by Ord. 90-11-45)
6-1D-4: Emergency Lighting Systems
6-1D-5: Minimum Heating Requirements
6-1D-6: Limited Area Sprinkler Systems (Rep. by Ord. 97-20-78)
6-1D-7: Air Conditioning Requirements
6-1D-1: REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The international building code, 2018 edition, published by the International
Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article
with the same force and effect as if it were specifically and particularly set
forth herein, and all regulations contained therein, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes prescribed in section 6-1D-2 of this article
shall apply to building construction of multi- family, commercial, assembly,
manufacturing and public buildings in the village. One copy of said code shall
be retained on file in the office of the clerk. (Ords. 14-04-10, 21-07-29)
6-1D-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Where any provisions of the international building code, 2018 edition, conflict
with any provisions of this village code, the provisions of this village code
shall prevail and shall be applied as the law of the village. The following
sections and tables of said international building code, 2018 edition, are
amended as follows:
Sections 1001 through 1029 of the international building code are amended in
the same manner as sections 903 through 910 of the international fire code as
set forth below.
Section 3001.0 Tests And Inspections - Is amended by adding a subsection 3001.5
which shall read as follows:
3001.5 - Inspection And Testing Fees. The fees associated with the testing and
inspection of elevators shall be as follows:
Plan Review:                                                         
 New elevator construction                                         $100.00
 Elevator rehabilitation and upgrade                               $100.00
Testing And Inspection:                                              
 Initial test and inspection for new construction                  $100.00
 Regular semi-annual test and inspection for new construction      $75.00
 Full load governor safety test                                    $85.00
 Reinspection relative to regular semi-annual test and inspection  $60.00
 Reinspection other than in regard to regular semi-annual test and $85.00
  inspection
 
3002.4 Elevator Car To Accommodate Ambulance Stretcher - Is amended by deleting
the following language:
four or more stories above, or four or more stories below, grade plane.
Chapter 27 is deleted. Refer to village code section 6-2-3A.
Chapter 29 is deleted. Refer to village code section 6-3-2A.
(Ords. 14-04-10, 15-16-64, 21-07-29)
6-1D-3: FACING MATERIAL:
(Rep. by Ord. 90-11-45)
6-1D-4: EMERGENCY LIGHTING SYSTEMS:
In all retail stores, commercial buildings and office buildings where the floor
area of the entire building exceeds two thousand (2,000) square feet or larger
in floor area, and in all places of public assembly that accommodate fifty (50)
or more individuals, an emergency lighting system shall be installed. Said
emergency lighting system is to be energized by either an auxiliary electrical
generation system or by an electrical storage battery system whereby either are
activated automatically upon the failure of the normal source and supply of
electrical energy. Emergency illumination of sufficient lumens shall be
provided for all stairways, staircases, exit doors, internal fire hose
locations, exit aisles and corridors. (Ords. 533, 66-23-62, 78-14-29; 1985
Code)
6-1D-5: MINIMUM HEATING REQUIREMENTS:
Every family unit or rooming unit to which heat is furnished from a heating
plant used in common for the purpose of heating the various rooms of the
dwelling shall be supplied with heat from September 15 of each year to June 1
of the succeeding year so that the occupants of a family unit or rooming unit
may secure, without such undue restrictions, a minimum temperature of sixty
five degrees Fahrenheit (65°F) averaged throughout the family unit or rooming
unit. (Ord. 16-02-09)
6-1D-6: LIMITED AREA SPRINKLER SYSTEMS:
(Rep. by Ord. 97-20-78)
6-1D-7: AIR CONDITIONING REQUIREMENTS:
In every family unit or room unit in any multi-family building, where air
conditioning is provided in said family unit or rooming unit by way of either
central air conditioning or wall/window unit air conditioner(s), said central
air conditioning or wall/window unit air conditioner(s) shall be in good
working order so as to provide air conditioning from May 1 through September 30
of each year. In the case of a multi-family rental unit building, it shall be
the obligation of the owner, landlord and/or property manager of said building
to see that the family units or room units within said building comply with
this section. (Ord. 87-19-78)
ARTICLE E. PRIVATE GARAGES
SECTION:
6-1E-1: Compliance With Provisions
6-1E-2: Permit Required, Term
6-1E-3: Attached Garages
6-1E-4: Detached Garages
6-1E-5: Protection of Egress Facilities
6-1E-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   Generally: Every structure erected for or converted to the purpose of
private garages shall comply with the following special provisions in addition
to the general provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Garages Near Residences: Private garages located within ten feet (10')
of any residence shall be constructed in accordance with Sections
6-1E-2 and
6-1E-3 of this Article as applicable thereto. (1951 Code 21-7-31, 21-7-33; Ord.
307)
6-1E-2: PERMIT REQUIRED, TERM:
The term shall be obtained prior to installation of the garage foundation or
slab and shall be valid for a period of two (2) years to complete the structure
1 . (1951 Code 21-7-33; Ord. 307)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  6-1A-3-4 of this Code, permit fees.
6-1E-3: ATTACHED GARAGES:
   A.   One or Two-Family Buildings: Private garages located beneath a one or
two-family dwelling, or attached thereto shall have walls, partitions, floors
and ceilings separating the garage space from the dwelling, constructed of not
less than one hour fire-resistance, with the sill of the door opening between
them raised not less than six inches (6") above the garage floor. The door
opening protectives shall be one hour fire doors complying with acceptable fire
resistive standards or one and three-quarters' inch (13/4") solid core wood
doors with a metal covering of twenty two (22) gauge or heavier applied to wood
passage doors between garage and house.
   B.   Strip Carports and Garages: Carports and/or garages that are arranged
so that they are in a continuous row (strip carports and/or garages), detached
and free-standing, shall be separated by masonry fire walls into bays of four
(4) cars or less to prevent car-to-car ignition by fire, along the entire row
of cars.
   C.   Motels and Multi-Family Buildings:
      1.   Private parking garages under or within motels or multi-family
buildings with a total number of car stalls of eight (8) cars or less, and in
which no gasoline or oil is stored or handled, shall have a one and one-half
(11/2) hour fire-rated ceiling, walls, columns, beams and structural elements.
The cars shall be arranged in isolated rows of four (4) cars or less, separated
by masonry fire wall separation, then the provisions of paragraph 2 shall be
followed.
      2.   Private parking garages under or within motels or multi-family
buildings with a total number of car stalls of sixteen (16) or less, and in
which no gasoline or oil is stored or handled, shall have a minimum one and
one- half (11/2) hour rated precast concrete ceiling. The walls, columns, beams
and all structural elements shall be of noncombustible construction and shall
be protected with a one and one-half (11/2) hour fire-rated assembly. A
positive exhaust system shall be designed and installed in compliance with
applicable Mechanical Code requirements 1 .
      3.   Private parking garages under or within motels or multi-family
buildings with a total number of car stalls of seventeen (17) or more, and in
which no gasoline or oil is stored or handled, shall have a precast concrete
ceiling. The ceiling, walls, columns, beams and all structural elements shall
be of noncombustible construction and shall be protected with a one and one-
half (11/2) hour fire-rated assembly. The exterior walls of the parking area
shall contain openings equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the square footage
of all perimeter walls of the parking area, arranged for cross ventilation to
dissipate heat and smoke generated from vehicle fires within the parking area.
Where the required wall openings are not provided, the parking area shall be
protected with a complete sprinkler system and a positive exhaust system shall
be installed in compliance with the Mechanical Code. (1951 Code 21-7-33; Ords.
307, 78-14-29)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 4 of this Title.
6-1E-4: DETACHED GARAGES:
Private garages separated from frame residence buildings by a breezeway not
less than ten feet (10') in length may be of unprotected frame (type 4-B)
construction but the junction of garage and breezeway shall be firestopped and
constructed of not less than one hour fire-resistive material. (1951 Code 21-7-
33; Ord. 307)
6-1E-5: PROTECTION OF EGRESS FACILITIES:
Where living quarters are located above a private garage, required egress
facilities shall be protected from the garage area with three quarters' (3/4)
hour fire-resistive construction. (1951 Code 21-7-33; Ord. 307)
ARTICLE F. VEHICLE STORAGE AND REPAIR BUILDINGS; GAS STATIONS
SECTION:
6-1F-1: Compliance With Provisions
6-1F-2: Housing Vehicles Containing Fuel
6-1F-3: Electrical Regulations
6-1F-4: Disposal of Oil and Grease
6-1F-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
Every building erected or converted to the purpose of motor vehicle storage
and/or repair and gas station shall comply with the following special
provisions in addition to the general provisions of this Chapter. (1951 Code
21-9-53)
6-1F-2: HOUSING VEHICLES CONTAINING FUEL:
Vehicles containing volatile inflammable liquid shall not be housed above any
room containing a boiler, forge, emery wheel or flame soldering iron heater
unless such room has a ceiling constructed of concrete or other impervious
materials, or unless the floor of the room in which such vehicles are housed is
constructed of or surfaced with concrete or other impervious materials. (1951
Code 21-9-61)
6-1F-3: ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   All nonportable electric machinery or appliances not actually a part of
a vehicle shall be located not less than four feet (4') above the floor.
   B.   Lighting shall be by means of incandescent electric lamps only. Movable
lights shall be protected by vapor-tight globes enclosed in approved metal
cages and shall be fitted with approved keyless sockets and portable cords.
   C.   All electric switches and blocks shall be permanently located at least
four feet (4') above the floor in rooms where vehicles containing volatile
inflammable liquids are housed, and shall be enclosed in a fireproof cabinet.
(1951 Code 21-9-62)
6-1F-4: DISPOSAL OF OIL AND GREASE:
There shall be no direct connection between any garage waste basin, sink, floor
drain or waste pipe and any house drainage or sewer system. All such drains or
waste mains to the sewer system shall have intercepting grease and oil traps or
separators which will completely separate such substances from water and
sewerage and allow their safe and convenient removal. Such traps shall be
adequately ventilated. (1951 Code 21-9-63)
ARTICLE G. SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS AND DRIVEWAY APRONS
SECTION:
6-1G-1: Sidewalks
6-1G-2: Driveways and Driveway Aprons
6-1G-3: Sidewalk, Driveway and Driveway Apron Construction Materials and
Standards
6-1G-1: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   General: Whenever a permit is issued by the Village for "development",
as defined in Section
6-14A-2 of the Village Code, including any reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
repair of an existing structure damaged in an amount that reduces the property
value by fifty percent (50%) or more, or any construction, reconstruction or
addition to an existing structure that increases the property value by fifty
percent (50%) or more, sidewalks shall be constructed as part of said
development by the developer, installer/contractor or property owner along all
streets adjacent to said property, except as otherwise provided in this
Article. If a street is planned for widening within five (5) years of the date
of final development approval, the developer, installer/contractor or property
owner shall, in lieu of constructing said sidewalk, place funds for sidewalk
construction in escrow with the Village in the amount of one hundred twenty
five percent (125%) of the estimated cost, as approved by the Director of
Quality Control.
   B.   Public Streets:
      1.   All collector and major or minor streets in residential districts
with average lot sizes of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet and under, or in
commercial and industrial districts located within walking distance of
pedestrian destinations or with frontages averaging less than two hundred feet
(200'): a minimum five foot (5') wide sidewalk with a five foot (5') wide
planting/green strip, is required on both sides of the street and around cul-
de-sacs. Wider sidewalks may be required in some commercial areas.
      2.   Streets in residential districts with average lot sizes exceeding
twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, or averaging a minimum of one hundred
fifty feet (150') of frontage: no sidewalks are required, except for sidewalks
along streets which serve as the primary collector streets serving at least
thirty (30) homes.
      3.   Any street within two (2) blocks of a school site, park or public
building that is determined by the Director of Quality Control to be a walking
route to those destinations: sidewalks are required on both sides of the
street.
      4.   New streets: sidewalks may be omitted on only one side if that side
cannot be developed and there are no existing or anticipated uses that would
generate pedestrian trips on that side.
      5.   Rights of way which are below standard widths: sidewalk installation
is subject to Village Engineer review.
   C.   Private Streets: The same sidewalk standards are required for private
streets as for public streets, unless other design guidelines are applied for
as part of a planned unit development.
   D.   Location: The location of sidewalks shall generally be one foot (1')
inside of the right-of-way boundary line. The location may be modified,
depending on factors that include, but are not limited to: relationship to
drainage ditches, easements, public utility rights of way and towers,
handicapped ramps, existing trees, landscaping, and topography. (Ord. 94-10-44)
6-1G-2: DRIVEWAYS AND DRIVEWAY APRONS:
   A.   Driveways Across Sidewalks and Parkways: No person, firm or corporation
shall construct or alter any driveway over, across or upon any public sidewalk
or parkway strip without first obtaining a permit from the Department of
Quality Control. Where ingress and egress is to be made from adjoining real
estate to a public street and where the Code requires off-street parking, such
off-street parking shall be made accessible to the public street and the
ingress and egress shall be made across the parkway strip and sidewalks by
means of a driveway constructed in accordance with this Article.
   B.   Permit Application: Application for a permit to construct a driveway
shall be on forms provided by the Department of Quality Control. The
application shall designate the location of the proposed driveway, the name and
address of the applicant, the name and address of the owner of the property to
be served by the proposed driveway, and the address of the applicant, if other
than the owner, and a plat of survey indicating the driveway location and
dimensions proposed. In those instances where a driveway is required to comply
with the requirements of the off-street parking and loading sections (Section
4-13-1 et seq.) of this Code, the permit application shall accompany the
application for the issuance of a building permit authorizing the new building
construction.
   C.   Permit Issuance and Fees: The Department of Quality Control shall issue
a permit to construct a driveway provided that the permit application is
complete, is in accordance with these regulations and the applicable permit fee
has been paid.
   D.   Permit Revocation: All permits for driveways issued pursuant to this
Article may be revoked at any time without the consent of the permittee by
order of the Director of the Department of Quality Control. A permit may be
revoked for failure of a permittee to comply with any of the provisions of this
Article or failure to comply with any permit-related provision of the Code. A
notice of noncompliance, setting forth the Code provision(s) violated, shall be
mailed by the Director via certified mail, or hand delivered, to the permittee
and the permittee shall have five (5) business days from the date of receipt of
said notice to cure any such Code violation. If the permittee fails to cure
said Code violation in the time period provided or if remedial action by the
permittee is insufficient to remove said Code violation, and the Director
revokes said permit, the permittee may appeal the revocation decision to the
Appeals and Review Board in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section
2-2-2 of this Code. Upon such revocation, all rights granted under the permit
shall be revoked, and if no appeal is taken, the sidewalk, parkway strips and/
or curbs shall be immediately restored to their former condition, at the
expense of the permittee and/or of the owner of the property served by the
driveway at the time of such revocation. If an appeal is taken, it shall be the
permittee's responsibility to barricade the construction site in accordance
with Section
9-1A-6 of this Code for the duration of the appeal.
   E.   Maximum Number: Single-family residences shall be permitted to have
only one driveway, unless an increase in the number of allowable driveways is
approved by the Board of Trustees upon recommendation of the Appeals and Review
Board. All other uses shall be allowed as approved by the Board of Trustees
upon recommendation of the Zoning and Planning Commission.
   F.   Minimum Length And Width: The minimum driveway length shall be from the
street access to a point forty feet (40') behind the minimum setback line, and
the minimum width of said driveway shall be nine feet (9') at the sidewalk line
and fifteen feet (15') at the curb. When the only parking space(s) located on a
driveway is/are in the front yard, the minimum driveway length, as provided by
this subsection, shall not be applicable to the driveway.
   G.   Maximum Width: The maximum width for driveways for single- family
residences shall be twenty feet (20') at the sidewalk line (or property line if
no sidewalk exists) and twenty six feet (26') at the curb line; provided,
however, that if the driveway is in conjunction with a three (3) car garage,
the maximum driveway width may be increased to thirty feet (30') at the
sidewalk line (or property line if no sidewalk exists) and thirty six feet
(36') at the curb line. No driveway shall encroach upon any portion of the
parkway strip adjacent to the adjoining properties. The maximum width for
driveways for all other uses shall be twenty five feet (25') at the sidewalk
line and shall be constructed with ten foot (10') radius returns unless
otherwise required or determined by the Director of Quality Control.
   H.   Grades And Curbs: Driveways shall conform to the existing sidewalk
grade. Where it is necessary to break the existing curb for the driveway
opening, the curb and gutter shall be completely removed and a new section
constructed. Each such driveway shall be constructed and maintained so as to
permit free and unobstructed passage on, over or across the sidewalk and in
such a manner as not to interfere with the proper drainage of streets. The
slope of any driveway and the approaches thereto shall not exceed one inch (1")
per foot in any direction. Each such driveway shall be so constructed and
maintained that its surface at the point of crossing any sidewalk pavement
shall be flush with the adjoining sections of such sidewalk.
   I.   Lots Abutting Both A Minor Street And A Collector Or Major Street: In
subdivisions where lots abut both a minor or marginal access street and a
collector or major street, no driveways shall be installed so as to exit onto
the collector or major street.
   J.   New Driveway Aprons Abutting Existing Sidewalks Or Curbs: New driveway
aprons abutting existing sidewalks or curbs shall be constructed to meet the
grade of such sidewalks or curbs. If necessary, the sidewalk shall be relocated
to accommodate the maximum driveway apron slope. The location and grade for
driveway aprons, when no adjacent sidewalks or curb and gutter exists, shall
match the adjacent parkway. The maximum slope of the driveway apron shall be
eight and thirty three hundredths percent (8.33%), and the minimum slope shall
be two percent (2%).
   K.   Concrete:
      1.   All single-family and two-family residential driveways and driveway
aprons, if constructed of concrete, shall have a minimum concrete thickness of
five inches (5") and a granular base of two inches (2") minimum compacted
thickness or an equivalent pavement section with a minimum structural number of
2.5. Expansion joints shall be used as specified in this Article.
      2.   Concrete driveways and driveway aprons for multi-family, commercial,
office and industrial property uses shall have a minimum concrete thickness of
eight inches (8"), plus a three inch (3") minimum compacted granular bedding
base. Expansion joints shall be used as specified in this Article.
   L.   Asphalt:
      1.   Single-family and two-family residential asphalt driveways and
driveway aprons shall be constructed in two (2) courses and shall not be less
than eight inches (8") in thickness after compaction. The crushed stone base
course shall be six inches (6") in thickness and compacted until all voids are
filled with finely crushed stone or screening. The asphalt surfaced course
shall be two inches (2") in thickness after compaction and shall be constructed
of bituminous plant-mix Type B-4 or B-5 conforming to the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction as prepared by Illinois
Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, most recent edition.
      2.   All other asphalt driveways and driveway aprons shall be constructed
in two (2) courses and shall not be less than eleven inches (11") in thickness
after compaction. The crushed stone base course shall be eight inches (8") in
thickness and compacted until all voids are filled with finely crushed stone or
screening. The asphalt surfaced course shall be three inches (3") in thickness
after compaction and shall be constructed of bituminous plant-mix Type B-4 or
B-5 conforming to the Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction
as prepared by the Illinois Department of Transportation, Division of Highways,
most recent edition. (Ords. 94-10-44, 96-1-3, 19-16-65, 19-16-66)
6-1G-3: SIDEWALK, DRIVEWAY AND DRIVEWAY APRON CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND
STANDARDS:
All materials shall comply with the following standards of quality:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Portland cement:
         ASTM C150 Type I, normal.
         ASTM C150 Type II, moderate sulfate resistance.
      2.   Fine aggregate:
         ASTM C33, clean sand graded between #200 and #4 sieve limits.
      3.   Coarse aggregate:
         ASTM C33, uncoated crushed stone or washed gravel. Slag shall not be
permitted.
      4.   Water-cement ratio:
         Maximum 0.45.
      5.   Water:
         ASTM C94.
      6.   Water-reducing admixture:
         ASTM C494 Type A (normal) or Type D (retarder).
      7.   Air entraining agent:
         ASTM C260
      8.   Premolded filler strips:
         ASTM D994
      9.   Curing compound:
         ASTM C309, Type 2 (white, pigmented)
      10.   Reinforcement:
         ASTM A615, Grade 40.
   B.   Concrete Quality:
      1.   Ready-mixed concrete that complies with ASTM C94 shall be used for
sidewalks, driveways, and driveway aprons. The concrete shall be supplied by a
ready-mixed source which is approved by the Illinois Department of
Transportation.
      2.   Concrete mix shall be designed using the following data:
         a.   Minimum compressive strength of: three thousand five hundred
(3,500) psi at twenty eight (28) days, prior to first seasonal frost; four
thousand (4,000) psi at twenty eight (28) days after the first seasonal frost.
         b.   Minimum of six (6) sacks of cement per cubic yard.
         c.   Maximum size aggregate of one inch (1").
         d.   Air entrainment of six percent (6%) ± one and one-half percent
(11/2%).
         e.   Maximum slump of four inches (4").
         f.   Concrete shall contain a water-reducing admixture with no
reduction in cement content.
   C.   Subgrade Preparation: Where a fill condition exists, all topsoil and
unsuitable material shall be removed. Subgrade shall be rolled or tamped before
granular fill is placed. Fill shall be placed in six inch (6") layers to the
proper subgrade elevation and properly compacted to ninety five percent (95%)
ASTM standard density. Side slopes of fill material shall not exceed one foot
(1') vertical to three feet (3') horizontal. Where a cut condition exists, all
topsoil and organic or unsuitable material shall be removed. Subgrade shall be
removed to the proper elevation to allow sufficient width to accommodate the
forms.
   D.   Granular Base: A granular base of a minimum thickness, as specified in
this Article or as otherwise directed by the Village Engineer, shall be placed
on the prepared subgrade. The base shall extend the full width of the sidewalk,
driveway or driveway apron. The granular base shall consist of CA6 aggregate
conforming to the Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction as
prepared by the Illinois Department of Transportation, Division of Highways,
most recent edition.
   E.   Forms: Side forms shall be of lumber of not less than two inches (2")
nominal thickness or steel of equal rigidity. The minimum depth of the side
forms shall be equal to the required sidewalk, driveway or driveway apron
thickness. No two inch by four inch (2" x 4") lumber forms shall be permitted.
Forms shall be held securely in place by stakes or braces with the top edge
true to line and grade. The forms for the sidewalk shall be set so that the
slab will have a fall of one inch (1") vertical to four feet (4') horizontal
from the edge nearest the property line toward the edge farthest from the
property line, except as may be otherwise directed by the Office of Quality
Control.
   F.   Expansion Joints: Expansion joints of the thickness specified below
shall consist of a premolded filler strip with the top strip placed one-fourth
inch (1/4") below the surface of the sidewalk, driveway or driveway apron.
      1.   One-Half Inch Thick Expansion Joints: Expansion joints one-half inch
(1/2") thick shall be placed between sidewalks and all structures which extend
through sidewalks, such as light standards, traffic light standards, and
traffic poles. one-half inch (1/2") thick expansion joints shall also be
provided at the junction of the driveway apron and the sidewalk and at the
junction of the driveway apron and the curb.
      2.   Three-Fourths Inch Thick Expansion Joints: Expansion joints three-
fourths inch (3/4") thick shall be placed at maximum intervals of fifty feet
(50') in sidewalks and where specified by the Department of Quality Control.
Where sidewalks are constructed adjacent to pavement or curbs that have
expansion joints, the expansion joints in the sidewalk shall be placed opposite
the existing expansion joints as nearly as practicable. Expansion joints shall
also be placed where the sidewalk abuts existing sidewalks, between the
driveway pavement and sidewalk, and between sidewalk and curbs where the
sidewalk abuts a curb.
   G.   Placing and Finishing Concrete:
      1.   The Department of Quality Control shall be notified when the
subgrade has been finished and is ready for inspection. A minimum of three (3)
hours notice shall be given prior to placing concrete. No concrete shall be
placed until the subgrade has been inspected and approved by the Department of
Quality Control.
      2.   Materials should not be placed on ice or frozen subgrade.
      3.   The subgrade shall be moistened just before the concrete is placed.
The concrete shall be placed in successive batches for the entire width of the
slab, struck off from one-half inch (1/2") to three-fourths inch (3/4") higher
than the finished slab, tamped until all voids are removed and free mortar
appears on the surface, thoroughly spaded along the edges, struck off to the
true grade, and to eliminate high and low spots and to embed large aggregate
particles, a bull float or darby should be used immediately after strikeoff but
before bleedwater accumulates on the surface. No finishing operation shall be
performed on the surface of a concrete slab while bleedwater is present. After
the bleedwater evaporates, the concrete shall be finished to a true and even
surface with floats. Lastly, the surface shall be given final finish by
brushing with a broom. The broom shall be drawn across the sidewalk, driveway
or driveway apron at right-angles to the edges of the slab, with adjacent
strokes slightly overlapping, producing a uniform, slightly roughened surface
with parallel marks.
   H.   Control Joints:
      1.   Sidewalks: Control joints shall be constructed at right angles to
the center line of the sidewalk and shall extend one-fourth (1/4) the depth of
the sidewalk. They shall not be less than one-eighth inch (1/8") nor more than
one-fourth inch (1/4") in width, and shall be edged with an edging tool having
a one-fourth inch (1/4") radius. All slabs shall be five feet (5') long on any
one side, unless otherwise ordered by the Director of Quality Control.
      2.   Driveways: Control joints shall be constructed in conformance with
the American Concrete Institute (ACI) Standards and Practices, as amended,
unless otherwise ordered by the Director of Quality Control.
      3.   Driveway Aprons: Control joints shall be constructed so as to divide
the driveway apron into sections which are approximately square with no side
longer than fifteen feet (15'). The control joints shall be not less than one-
eighth inch (1/8") nor more than one-fourth inch (1/4") in width, and shall be
edged with an edging tool having a one-fourth inch (1/4") radius. The minimum
depth shall be one and one-fourth inches (11/4").
   I.   Protection from Low Temperatures: If concrete is placed after the first
seasonal frost, concrete shall be protected from freezing in accordance with
the "Recommended Practice for Cold-Weather Concreting" (ACI 306). Air-entrained
concrete shall not be allowed to freeze and thaw in a saturated condition prior
to developing the required design compressive strength (ACI 308). The developer
or installer/contractor shall be responsible for all concrete damaged by low
temperatures, and any damaged concrete shall be removed and replaced by the
developer or installer/contractor at the developer or installer/contractor's
expense.
   J.   Curing:
      1.   After finishing the concrete, in accordance with subsection G above,
all sidewalks, driveways and driveway aprons shall be cured, in addition to the
curing requirements set forth in subsection J2 below, by one of the following
methods:
         a.   Burlap shall be placed on the finished surface, saturated with
water and covered with an impermeable covering.
         b.   Polyethylene sheeting shall be placed as soon as the concrete has
sufficiently hardened to prevent marring of the surface. The surface of the
concrete shall be wet immediately before the sheeting is placed. The edges of
the sheeting shall be weighted securely with a continuous windrow of earth or
any other means satisfactory to the Department of Quality Control to provide an
airtight cover.
         c.   Liquid-membrane-forming/curing compound shall be applied per ASTM
C309 immediately after broom finish.
      2.   A minimum thirty (30) day drying period after seven (7) days of
moist curing, if concrete is placed in the fall and will be exposed to freeze-
thaw cycles and deicers when saturated, is required. When temperatures fall to
near forty degrees (40°) Fahrenheit, a fourteen (14) day curing period may be
necessary when using Type I, normal cement. The required curing period can be
reduced to seven (7) days by using a Type III high-early-strength cement or a
higher cement content in the concrete.
Any of the three (3) curing methods set forth in subsection J1 above must
remain in place for not less than six (6) days.
   K.   Backfill: After the concrete has been cured, forms shall be removed and
the space near the edges of the sidewalk, driveway or driveway apron shall be
backfilled to the required elevation with material approved by the Department
of Quality Control. The material shall then be compacted until firm and the
surface evenly graded.
   L.   Disposal of Surplus Material: Surplus or waste material resulting from
the sidewalk, driveway or driveway apron construction shall be disposed of by
the developer, installer/contractor or property owner.
   M.   Control of Materials: The developer or installer/contractor shall, when
requested by the Village and at the developer or installer/contractor's
expense, have a commercial testing laboratory prepare and test samples of
delivered concrete. One set of tests shall be taken for the first twenty five
(25) cubic yards, or fraction thereof, and one set of tests shall be taken for
each additional fifty (50) cubic yards. A set of tests shall consist of four
(4) standard cylinders (2 shall be broken at 7 days and 2 shall be broken at 28
days), one slump test and one air content test. The laboratory shall perform
tests in accordance with recognized ASTM standards and shall submit written
reports of such tests to the Village Engineer for review.
   N.   Enforcement and Remedies: All construction in accordance with this
Article shall be subject to the terms and remedies contained in Section
6-1-8 of the Code. (Ord. 94-10-44)
ARTICLE H. ELEVATOR STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-1H-1: Codes Adopted
6-1H-2: Amendment
6-1H-3: Upgrades
6-1H-4: Conflict
6-1H-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The following are hereby adopted:
   A.   American Society Of Mechanical Engineers (ASME):
      1.   Safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.1-2005), A17.1
(a)-2005, and A17.1(s)-2005;
      2.   Guide for inspection of elevators, escalators and moving walks (ASME
A17.2-2004);
      3.   Safety code for existing elevators and escalators (ASME A17.3-2005);
      4.   Safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chairlifts (ASME
A18.1-2005);
      5.   Standard for the qualification of elevator inspectors (ASME QEI-1-
2004).
   B.   American National Standards:
      1.   Safety requirements for personal hoists and employee elevators (ANSI
A10.4-2004).
   C.   American Society Of Civil Engineers (ASCE):
      1.   Automated people mover standards (ASCE 21-2000). (Ord. 07-15-46)
6-1H-2: AMENDMENT:
Should the village amend any of the standards set forth in section
6-1H-1 of this article, the village shall submit to the office of the state
fire marshal a copy of the amendment and its reason for the change. (Ord. 07-
15-46)
6-1H-3: UPGRADES:
Upgrades required by ASME A17.3-2005, safety code for existing elevators shall
be completed no later than January 1, 2009, except that upgrades to the
hydraulic cylinder system and firefighter control system shall be completed by
January 1, 2011. (Ord. 07-15-46)
6-1H-4: CONFLICT:
Where any provisions of this article conflict with any provisions of this code,
the provisions of this article shall prevail and shall be applied as the law of
the village. (Ord. 07-15-46)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Administration
6-2-3: Rules And Regulations Adopted
6-2-4: Amendments To Regulations
6-2-5: Permit Requirements
6-2-6: Inspections, Certificate Of Approval
6-2-7: Construction Regulations
6-2-7-1: New Single-Family Residences
6-2-7-2: Single-Family Residence Service Changes And Repairs
6-2-7-3: Service Entrance Cable
6-2-7-4: Garages
6-2-7-5: Central Air Conditioning Units
6-2-7-6: Exit And Emergency Lighting
6-2-7-7: Smoke And Carbon Monoxide Detectors
6-2-7-8: Appliance Circuits In Apartments
6-2-7-9: Cables, Conductors And Conduits
6-2-7-10: Ground Fault Circuit Interrupters
6-2-7-11: Exterior Outlets And Fixtures
6-2-7-12: Installation Of Electrical Conduit For Remote Water Meter Cable
Wiring In New Construction
6-2-7-13: Electrical Rooms/Closets
6-2-7-14: Carbon Monoxide Detectors
6-2-8: Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them:
CIRCUIT: Any set of branch lighting conductors which have been extended from a
distribution center and which may be utilized for the transmission of
electrical energy.
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT: Conductors and other equipment installed for the
utilization of electricity for light, heat or power. It does not include radio
apparatus or equipment for wireless reception of sounds and signals; nor
ordinary household appliances such as toasters, vacuum cleaners or washing
machines; and it does not include apparatus, conductors or other equipment
which are under the jurisdiction of the Illinois commerce commission, for use
in their operation as public utilities. (1951 Code 21-10-1; Ord. 76-16-30)
6-2-2: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Electrical Inspection Department: There is hereby established for the
village, an electrical inspection department for the purpose of regulating the
installation, alteration and use of all electrical equipment within the
village.
   B.   Electrical Inspectors: Effective as of August 1, 2023:
      1.   Compensation: The remuneration of the electrical inspector
supervisor and the electrical inspector assistant for all electrical inspection
work performed shall be as follows:
         a.   Electrical inspector supervisor: Fourteen thousand dollars
($14,000.00) per year.
         b.   Electrical inspector assistant: Seven thousand dollars
($7,000.00) per year.
      The compensation amounts listed above includes remuneration for any
travel, mileage or miscellaneous expenses incurred while conducting official
Village business.
      The remuneration of any additional part time electrical inspector(s),
designated by the Director of Community Development, shall be one-half (½) of
all electrical inspection fees collected under the applicable ordinances of the
village relative to inspections actually performed by any part time electrical
inspector.
      The Electrical Inspector Supervisor and Electrical Inspector Assistant
are considered part-time employees of the Village and as such are not eligible
for benefits including insurance and retirement plans. In addition, the
policies and procedures outlined in the Village of Oak Lawn Employee Handbook
are applicable to these positions, unless otherwise stated.
   C.   Salary Review: The salary figure for electrical inspector supervisor
and electrical inspector assistant, as set forth in subsection B of this
section, shall be reviewed on a semi-annual basis by the Village Manager, to
determine whether it should be increased, decreased or remain as is. Said
review shall consider the length of employment with the Village and will
consist of a comparison between the salaries paid and the electrical permit and
inspection fees received by the village during the previous six (6) months.
(1951 Code 21-10-11, 21-20-17, 21-10-18; Ords. 6-10-52, 10-14-52, 248, 96-9-42,
10-01-02, 23-03-15, 25-03-03)
6-2-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The following rules are hereby adopted as the safe and practical standard for
the installation, alteration, repair and use of electrical equipment in the
village:
   A.   Chicago Electrical Code: The rules and regulations of the city of
Chicago electrical code 2018 Edition of the Chicago Electrical Code, based on
the 2017 National Electrical Code, are hereby adopted, save and except such
portions as are hereafter deleted, modified or amended, and with the addition
of those sections hereafter set forth as additions thereto, the same are
incorporated as if fully set forth herein; one copy having been and now being
on file with the clerk, with the exceptions set forth in section
6-2-4 of this chapter.
   Where any provision of 2018 Edition of the Chicago Electrical Code conflict
with any provisions of this village code, the provisions of the village code
shall prevail and shall be applied as law of the village.
   B.   Village Regulations: The rules and regulations regarding the
installation, alteration, repair and use of electrical equipment as last
adopted by the village, with the exception that entrance wiring shall be in
accordance with local utility company rules. (1951 Code 21-10-2, 21-10-16;
Ords. 66-23-62, 71-20-50, 76-16-30, 84-26-76; 1985 Code; Ords. 94-3-8, 97-20-
78, 01-09-32, 06-10-54, 14-04-10, 21-07-29)
6-2-4: AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS:
The rules and regulations of the 2018 Edition of the Chicago Electrical Code,
based on the 2017 National Electrical Code, (the “Chicago Electrical Code”) as
adopted in subsection
6-2-3A of this chapter is amended by the following changes and/or additions
thereto:
   Chapter 27 Electrical Regulations, Article 100. Definitions, Part A.
General.
   Recessed Incandescent Fixture. A lamp housing assembly located within a
ceiling, wall or floor space.
   Section 13-12-290. Qualifications.
   For the purposes of registering as an electrical contractor and/or
qualifying as a supervising electrician in the village of Oak Lawn, compliance
with the testing requirements set forth in chapter 13-12, article II, part C,
section 13-12-290 of the municipal code of Chicago shall be done by way of
taking and passing the tests offered by the city of Chicago in regard to
registering as an electrical contractor and/or qualifying as a supervising
electrician. As such, the tests given by the city of Chicago in regard to
registering as an electrical contractor and/or qualifying as a supervising
electrician are hereby adopted as the tests of the village of Oak Lawn and such
tests shall be given on such dates as determined by the city of Chicago
department of inspectional services.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of electrical
contractor, as herein defined, without being registered as an electrical
contractor in the manner hereinafter set forth; provided, however, that if such
person is already registered for the current year in any one of the following
municipalities:
   City of Chicago
   City of Waukegan
   Village of Orland Park
   Village of Libertyville
   Village of Lansing
   City of Elgin
   City of Naperville
   Village of Schaumburg
   City of Ottawa
   City of Woodstock
   Village of Buffalo Grove
   Such electrical contractor shall not be required to be registered or to pay
a registration fee in the village.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, pursuant to the village's home rule powers as
provided by article VII, section 6 of the 1970 Illinois constitution, such
electrical contractor shall be required to file a copy of his/her registration
certificate with the village's quality control department and pay an
administrative fee of twenty-five and no/100 dollars ($25.00) relative to said
filing. The purpose of said administrative filing is to allow the village's
quality control department to create and maintain a list of properly registered
licensed electricians so as to facilitate the efficient processing of
electrical permit requests.
   Chapter 27, Article 220, Section 18-27-220.3(c)(1). Dwelling Units.
   Loads for structural additions to an existing dwelling unit or to a
previously unwired portion of an existing dwelling unit, either of which
exceeds two hundred (200) square feet in area, shall be computed in accordance
with paragraph (b) of this section. Loads for new circuits or extended circuits
in previously wired dwelling units shall be computed in accordance with either
(a) or (b) of section 18-27-220.3.
(Ords. 01-09-32, 01-11-38, 06-10-54, 14-04-10, 21-07-29)
6-2-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permits Required; Work Without Permits:
      1.   No electrical equipment shall be installed or altered except upon a
permit first issued by the electrical inspector authorizing the installation,
alteration, use or repair of electrical equipment.
      2.   Where an electrical installation has been started prior to the
issuance of a permit for such work, the permit fee for such work shall be twice
the amount of the normal permit fee prescribed in this chapter but no permit
fee shall exceed the normal permit fee for such work plus two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00).
      3.   Where a registered electrical contractor is found doing electrical
work without a permit on three (3) separate occasions in one calendar year, a
hearing shall be held by the director of the office of quality control, at
which time the permit privileges of said electrical contractor may be suspended
for a period of time not to exceed one year.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   No permit for the installation, alteration, repair or use of
electrical equipment shall be issued except pursuant to an application therefor
made out on a printed form, to be furnished by the electrical inspector, or his
duly authorized deputy, and upon payment of a fee in advance as hereinafter
provided.
      2.   The application for each permit shall contain the name of the owner,
or user of electrical equipment to be installed, altered, repaired or used, and
the location of the premises where such installation or alteration is to be
made by a street and number and a detailed description of the work to be done.
(Ord. 84-26-76)
6-2-6: INSPECTIONS, CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Certificate Required: It shall be unlawful to use or turn on power into
or induce any electric current to flow through any wires or equipment hereafter
installed for which a certificate of approval has not been issued.
   B.   Inspection, Issuance Of Certificate: The electrical inspector shall
issue a certificate of approval after each inspection in which the wiring or
apparatus is found to be in compliance with the terms of this chapter and with
the rules adopted herein.
   C.   Reinspections, Dangerous Conditions: The electrical inspector shall
make, periodically, a thorough reinspection of the installation of all electric
wiring, electric devices and electric material now installed in buildings
within the village, and when the installation of any such wiring, devices or
material is found to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition, the person using or
operating the same shall be notified and shall make the necessary repairs or
changes required to place such wiring, devices and materials in a safe
condition, and have such work completed within fifteen (15) days or any longer
period specified by the electrical inspector in said notice. The electrical
inspector is hereby empowered to disconnect or order the discontinuance of
electrical service to such wiring devices or material so found to be defective
until the installation of such wiring, devices and material has been made safe
as directed by said inspector.
   D.   Extra Inspections: Where extra inspections are made because of
inaccurate or incorrect information, failure to make necessary repairs, or
faulty construction. (1951 Code 21-10-9, 21-10-10; Ord. 01-09-32)
6-2-7: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
6-2-7-1: NEW SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCES:
The following regulations shall apply to electrical services for new single-
family residences:
   A.   For single-family residences having a total floor area of one thousand
five hundred (1,500) square feet or more, as determined by the office of
quality control:
      1.   The service entrance conduit shall be two inch (2") trade size,
aluminum, IMC or galvanized iron conduit. No thin wall conduit shall be used.
The minimum service size shall be two hundred (200) amps.
      2.   The service entrance conductors shall have a current carrying
capacity of two hundred (200) amps and shall be equal to or better than AWG
size 3/0, THWN minimum size.
      3.   The service entrance switch shall contain:
         a.   A two hundred (200) ampere main switch or breaker which will
disconnect all distribution in the building. No split buss panels shall be
used.
         b.   A minimum thirty (30) circuit panel and a maximum forty two (42)
circuit panel.
   B.   For single-family residences having a total floor area less than one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet, as determined by the office of
quality control:
      1.   The service entrance conduit shall be one and one-fourth inch (11/
4") trade size, aluminum, IMC or galvanized iron conduit. No thin wall conduit
shall be used. The minimum service size shall be one hundred (100) amps.
      2.   The service entrance conductors shall have a current carrying
capacity of one hundred (100) amps and shall be minimum AWG size 2, THWN.
      3.   The service entrance switch shall contain a one hundred (100) ampere
main switch or breaker, which will disconnect all distribution in the building.
No split buss panels shall be used. A minimum twenty (20) circuit panel and a
maximum twenty four (24) circuit panel shall be provided.
   C.   As a minimum, circuit loads shall be connected as follows:
      1.   Two (2) appliance circuits, #12 wire to the kitchen area. All
countertop receptacles shall be GFCI protected. These can be used in the dining
area for appliances. No split plugs to be used. Soffit light and fan shall not
be fed from appliance circuits.
      2.   Gas range and hood fan shall be on a separate fifteen (15) ampere
circuit.
      3.   One 15- or 20-ampere circuit shall be provided for microwave oven.
      4.   One 15- or 20-ampere circuit shall be provided for dishwasher.
      5.   One 20-ampere circuit shall be provided for refrigerator.
      6.   One 15-ampere circuit shall be provided for garbage disposal unit.
      7.   One 20-ampere circuit shall be installed in all bathrooms for GFCI
receptacles only.
      8.   One circuit shall be provided each for sump pump and ejector pump.
      9.   One circuit for heating system.
      10.   One circuit for laundry plug, twenty (20) ampere, #12 wire (not
GFCI protected).
      11.   Living room and family room shall be on a separate fifteen (15)
ampere circuit, GFCI protected below switch.
      12.   Three (3) circuits for general lighting load.
      13.   Two (2) spare circuits for future use.
Where required and approved, additional circuits in accordance with the
requirements set forth in the adopted electrical code rules and regulations may
be permitted.
   D.   Ground straps shall not be located in any crawl space less than forty
eight inches (48") in depth.
   E.   The two hundred twenty (220) volt appliance circuit shall be double
pole; no tie bar to be used.
   F.   Panel circuit breakers shall conform to Chicago Electrical Code section
240.85.
   G.   A #8 copper clad grounding electrode shall be installed for all new
service installations to meter socket, and to grounding bushings.
   H.   All service grounding cable shall be located at line side of water
meter, with an appropriately sized bonding jumper connection across the meter
space.
   I.   Aluminum wire shall not be used anywhere in building. (Ords. 94-3-8,
94-12-54, 01-09-32, 21-07-29)
6-2-7-2: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE SERVICE CHANGES AND REPAIRS:
Service changes and repairs for single-family residences shall be in accordance
with the requirements set forth in subsections 6-2-7-1A, B, D, E, F, G, H and I
of this chapter. (Ord. 01-09-32)
6-2-7-3: SERVICE ENTRANCE CABLE:
   A.   Service entrance cable shall not be approved for a new service or
service change installation. Permission may be granted on service change
installations where conditions warrant.
   B.   Post lights and all permanent outside lighting shall be wired with
three (3) conductor direct burial cable or in conduit, with one wire grounded
to fixture and to the nearest metallic ground in system. (Ords. 66-23-62, 76-
16-30)
6-2-7-4: GARAGES:
Garages shall have at least two (2) ceiling lights on a general lighting
circuit, one ceiling receptacle on a fifteen (15) ampere circuit, and three (3)
GFCI receptacles, one installed on each of three (3) different walls. All wall
receptacles shall be on the same twenty (20) ampere circuit and separate from
all other lighting and receptacles. All receptacles must be installed at least
four feet (4') above finished floor. All outside doors shall be illuminated.
All electrical feed to the garage shall be underground, in accordance with the
minimum cover requirements found in table 18-27-300.5. Only rigid, IMC heavy
wall or rigid nonmetallic (PVC, schedule 40, with ground wire) conduit shall be
used to feed the garage. One end of the conduit or ground wire shall be
grounded to the conduit system in the garage and other end to the nearest
metallic ground within the house. Special permission will be given to overhead
aerial wires. If the condition warrants this, if in writing, and the inspection
department, upon investigation, is aware of existing conditions. (Ord. 01-09-
32)
6-2-7-5: CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING UNITS 1 :
   A.   For installation of central air conditioning units in single-family
dwellings, hereafter all equipment that is required, including the power unit,
shall only be permitted to be installed within a rear or side yard as defined
in section
4-5A-3 of this code. In no event shall a central air conditioning unit be
installed in a manner that encroaches more than three feet (3') into the
applicable yard, with a minimum side yard width of six feet (6'). All
installations shall be made by a licensed and registered electrical contractor
after the proper permits are taken out. All units shall be wired from the house
to the unit with sealtite flexible conduit to eliminate any vibrations from the
unit to the house. (Ords. 12-24-76, 21-07-29)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 6-4-4 of this title.
6-2-7-6: EXIT AND EMERGENCY LIGHTING:
   A.   There shall be installed in all apartment buildings of three (3) floors
or more, containing five (5) apartment units or more, a complete exit and
emergency system, exit signs to be fed from an emergency panel that is fed from
the line side of the main switch. Emergency and exit sign illumination shall be
obtained from battery powered emergency lighting units located so as to provide
emergency illumination to all points of egress. Exit signs may be constructed
of plastic pursuant to Chicago Electrical Code section 700.66(c)(3).
   B.   In all retail stores, commercial buildings, office buildings,
restaurants, lounges or other places of public use or assembly, where an
occupancy is eight hundred (800) square feet or larger, a battery powered exit
sign system shall be installed which shall operate on the battery during a
power failure.
   C.   In all retail stores, commercial buildings and office buildings, of two
thousand (2,000) square feet or larger, and in all restaurants, lounges or
other places of public use or assembly, of eight hundred (800) square feet or
larger, an emergency lighting system shall be installed. Said emergency
lighting system is to be energized by either an auxiliary electrical generating
system, or by a wet electrical storage battery system, whereby either are
activated automatically upon the failure of the normal source and supply of
electrical energy. Emergency illumination of sufficient lumens shall be
provided for all stairways, staircases, exit doors, internal fire hose
locations, exit aisles and corridors. Also, emergency lighting with battery
backup shall be provided in all washrooms having two (2) or more water closet
fixtures.
   D.   For purposes of this section, the phrase "other places of public use or
assembly" shall mean something other than a restaurant or lounge used by fifty
(50) or more persons for religious, recreational, educational, political,
social, or amusement purposes, and not specified in this section, including,
but not limited to: gymnasiums, club rooms, conference rooms, courtrooms, and
banquet halls. (Ords. 76-16-30, 78-24-60, 84-6-12, 94-3-8, 01-09-32, 21-07-29)
6-2-7-7: SMOKE AND CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS:
   A.   Detectors: Detectors shall comply with the international fire code with
the changes outlined in section
7-3-1 of this code.
   B.   Dead Batteries: Smoke alarms shall be maintained in an operative
condition at all times. If during an inspection, the fire code official or a
duly authorized representative finds a solely battery operated smoke alarm
inoperable due to a dead battery, the building owner shall immediately replace
the solely battery operated smoke alarm with a listed electrically operated
smoke alarm. The smoke alarm shall receive primary power from the building
wiring where such wiring is served from a commercial source and shall be
equipped with a battery backup. (Ords. 14-04-10, 14-27-62)
6-2-7-8: APPLIANCE CIRCUITS IN APARTMENTS:
In all apartments of six hundred fifty (650) square feet or over, there shall
be two (2) appliance circuits in the kitchen area. See single-family
requirements for location of receptacles. (Ord. 76-16-30)
6-2-7-9: CABLES, CONDUCTORS AND CONDUITS:
   A.   Signs On Stores: On new and remodeling jobs, a three- fourths inch (3/
4") conduit shall be installed to the front of stores for signs from the main
distribution panel.
   B.   Nonmetallic Conduit:
      1.   All nonmetallic conduit and fittings including fiber, asbestos,
soapstone, cement, rigid PVC and high density polyethylene, ABS or any other
chemical compound material will be used for outside use only.
      2.   All services using the above materials will be stubbed within five
feet (5') of the building and continued in rigid conduit. Inside the building,
below or above grade, the service will be installed in rigid conduit or
electrical metallic tubing to ensure a continuous electrical metallic ground.
      3.   No nonmetallic sheathed cable shall be used in the village.
   C.   Aluminum Conductors: No aluminum conductors shall be used in the
village.
   D.   Armored Cable: Armored cable may be used only by special permission of
the chief electrical inspector. (Ords. 66-23-62, 76-16-30, 78-24-60)
6-2-7-10: GROUND FAULT CIRCUIT INTERRUPTERS:
   A.   Swimming Pools: Ground fault circuit interrupters shall be used on all
outlets in all swimming pools, ornamental pools or other similar bodies of
water both inside and outside of the building.
   B.   Bathrooms: All bathrooms and powder rooms shall have ground fault
circuit interrupter receptacles on a twenty (20) ampere circuit for all
outlets. Exhaust fans and lighting shall be connected to the load side of GFCI
receptacles on a fifteen (15) ampere circuit to the nearest GFCI receptacle in
the bedrooms. Spas, whirlpool tubs, hot tubs and similar bathing fixtures shall
have their power supply connected to a GFCI circuit breaker on a separate
circuit within the distribution panel.
   C.   Rooftop HVAC Equipment: All rooftop air conditioning units and heating
units shall be on a separate GFCI protected receptacle. (Ords. 94-3-8, 01-09-
32)
6-2-7-11: EXTERIOR OUTLETS AND FIXTURES:
   A.   Exterior Outlets To Be Weatherproofed: All exterior outlets shall be
installed in weatherproof boxes, one-fourth inch to one-half inch (1/4" - 1/2")
from wall.
   B.   Exterior Receptacles: All exterior receptacles for outlets shall be
GFCI protected.
   C.   Box For Exterior Bracket Lights: All exterior bracket lights shall be
installed in an Underwriters' Laboratory approved metal box. (Ords. 66-23-62,
76-16-30, 94-3-8, 01-09-32)
6-2-7-12: INSTALLATION OF ELECTRICAL CONDUIT FOR REMOTE WATER METER CABLE
WIRING IN NEW CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   In all new construction, a one-half inch (1/2") diameter EMT galvanized
steel thin wall conduit shall be installed between the point of location of the
water service meter and a location on the outside wall surface, a minimum of
twelve inches (12"), but no more than eighteen inches (18") above the gas
meter. Conduit bends shall be no more than six inches (6") in radius and have
no more than one back to back bend. All conduit piping is to be flush with
walls both inside and outside of the building. Said conduit run shall be
provided with three (3) conductor bell wire, end to end, including twelve
inches (12") of wire slack at each end, for the purpose of connecting the
necessary conductor wire(s) by the village water department.
   B.   It shall be the responsibility of the village licensed electrical
contractor to install this conduit, and such installation shall be agreed to by
said contractor as a part of the application for an electrical permit. (Ords.
87-24-104, 94-3-8, 01-09-32)
6-2-7-13: ELECTRICAL ROOMS/CLOSETS:
All electrical rooms/closets shall be used for electrical equipment only and
proper venting shall be provided. No plumbing or HVAC ducts shall be installed
within or through said room, except for automatic fire suppression system (fire
sprinkler) piping and sprinkler heads as may be approved by the village fire
department. (Ord. 01-09-32)
6-2-7-14: CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS:
Carbon monoxide alarms shall be required and installed in all residential
occupancies, new and existing, in accordance with this section:
   A.   Newly Constructed Single-Family And Single-Family Attached Dwellings:
Carbon monoxide detectors will be required to be installed in or adjacent to
(within 15 feet of) all sleeping areas. They shall be both AC and DC (battery)
powered, and detectors remote to one another shall be interconnected.
   B.   Existing Single-Family And Single-Family Attached Dwellings: Carbon
monoxide detectors shall be required to be installed in or adjacent to (within
15 feet of) all sleeping areas. They shall be either AC or DC (battery)
powered.
   C.   Newly Constructed Apartment Buildings: Carbon monoxide detectors shall
be required to be installed within each dwelling unit in or adjacent to (within
15 feet of) all sleeping areas. They shall be both AC and DC (battery) powered,
and detectors remote to one another shall be interconnected.
   D.   Existing Apartment Buildings: Carbon monoxide detectors shall be
installed within each dwelling unit in or adjacent to (within 15 feet of) all
sleeping areas. They shall be either AC or DC (battery) powered.
   E.   New And Existing Hotels/Motels: One carbon monoxide detector shall be
installed on each floor where occupants will be sleeping in a common area as
approved by the building official. An approved carbon monoxide detection
system, designed to warn occupants, or sound a warning in a constantly attended
location, may be installed in lieu of individual floor detectors. Floor
detectors and/or systems shall be installed in lieu of individual floor
detectors. Floor detectors and/or systems shall be both AC and DC (battery)
powered. Individual sleeping rooms with fuel burning appliances located within
the room shall each have a carbon monoxide detector installed within each room,
where not protected by an otherwise approved detection system.
   F.   New And Existing Healthcare/Institutional Occupancies: One carbon
monoxide detector shall be installed on each floor where occupants will be
sleeping, in a common area as approved by the building official. An approved
carbon monoxide detection system, designed to warn occupants, or sound a
warning in a constantly attended location, may be installed in lieu of
individual floor detectors. Floor detectors and/or systems shall be both AC and
DC (battery) powered. Individual sleeping rooms, with fuel burning appliances
located within the room, shall each have a carbon monoxide detector installed
within each room, where not protected by an otherwise approved detection
system. (Ord. 07-04-15)
6-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ords. 84-26-76, 99-5-11)
ARTICLE A. ELECTRICAL FEES
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Fees Generally
6-2A-2: Inspection Fees
6-2A-3: Reinspections
6-2A-4: Illuminated Signs
6-2A-5: Garages And Swimming Pools
6-2A-6: Examination Of Plans
6-2A-7: Searchlights
6-2A-1: FEES GENERALLY:
   A.   The inspection fee for each nominal 20 ampere or less, branch circuit,
including fixtures, sockets or receptacles, shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per
circuit for the first fifty (50) circuits and five dollars ($5.00) for each
nominal 20 ampere or less, branch circuit thereafter. The inspection fee for 21
to 50 ampere branch circuits shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) per circuit.
   B.   The inspection fee for a 21 ampere to 50 ampere fixed lighting circuit
shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) per circuit.
   C.   The inspection fee for 3-wire circuits and 3-phase, 4-wire circuits
shall be:
      1.   3-wire circuit, 20 ampere or less: double the cost per circuit as
set forth in subsection A of this section.
      2.   3-phase, 4-wire circuit, 20 ampere or less: triple the cost per
circuit as set forth in subsection A of this section. (Ords. 84-26-76, 94-3-9)
6-2A-2: INSPECTION FEES:
   A.   Motors And Current Consuming Devices: The inspection fees for the
inspection of each electric motor or current consuming device, other than
lighting fixtures, shall be as follows:
 
One motor or current consuming device             $20.00
Each additional motor or current consuming device 7.00
 
   B.   Temporary Installations, Underground And Overhead Wires And Apparatus:
Inspections of temporary installations, underground or overhead wires and
apparatus, and all other inspections not specifically provided for herein shall
be charged at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour or fraction thereof,
per inspector.
   C.   Temporary Installations Such As Displays, Exhibitions, Carnivals And
Similar Temporary Installations:
      1.   Inspection Fees: The fees for inspection of the electrical work in
connection with displays, exhibitions, carnivals and similar temporary
installations shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour or fraction thereof per
inspector.
      2.   Overtime: The fees for inspection of the electrical work in
connection with displays, exhibitions, carnivals and similar temporary
installations as described in subsection C1 of this section, which, by their
nature must be inspected during other than normal working hours, shall be
double the fees described in subsection C1 of this section. (Note: Other than
normal working hours shall include all Saturdays, Sundays, posted holidays and
all weekdays between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 8:00 A.M. and 4:30 P.M.
and 12:00 midnight.)
   D.   Communication And Alarm Systems: The fees for the inspection of
electrical communication systems and burglar alarms shall be as follows
      Low voltage burglar alarms, fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour or fraction
thereof per inspector.
      Aural communication system, fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour or fraction
thereof per inspector.
      Visual communication systems, fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour or fraction
thereof per inspector.
      Antenna systems, fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour or fraction thereof per
inspector.
   E.   Services:
      1.   The inspection fees for electrical services shall be as follows:
 
0 to 100 amperes     $40.00
101 to 200 amperes   50.00
201 to 400 amperes   65.00
401 to 600 amperes   75.00
601 to 1,000 amperes 100.00
 
      2.   Fees for services in excess of 1,000 amperes shall be computed on
the basis of the rating of the service disconnects installed, prorated
according to the schedule above and shall include feeders, risers and all
wiring and equipment up to the branch circuit distribution panels or motor
power panels or control centers.
      3.   Fees for the inspection of vaults, except for utility vaults, shall
be fifty dollars ($50.00) for each vault. (Ords. 84-26-76, 94-3-9, 01-09-32)
6-2A-3: REINSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspection fees for the reinspection of any existing, previously
approved electrical installation shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour or
fraction thereof, per inspector and shall be payable by the electrical
contractor who subsequently obtains a permit to make the required corrections
to that electrical installation.
   B.   Where extra inspections are made because of inaccurate or incorrect
information, failure to make necessary repairs, or faulty construction, a
charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour or fraction thereof shall be made for
each such inspection. (Ords. 84-26-76, 93-4-9)
6-2A-4: ILLUMINATED SIGNS:
   A.   Permit Fees: The original permit fee shall cover the first annual
inspection fee. Subsequent annual inspections shall be subject to the annual
inspection fee stated in subsection D of this section. Permit fees shall be
computed as follows:
      1.   Electric or illuminated signs projecting over the public way -
twenty two dollars ($22.00) per sign, plus seventy cents ($0.70) per square
foot of area of each face. The area of an irregular shaped sign shall be
computed by using the area of the outer perimeter design of the sign.
      2.   Electric or illuminated signs on private property, illuminated signs
flat against the building, illuminated painted wall signs and illuminated
signboards - twenty two dollars ($22.00) per sign.
      3.   Electric or illuminated roof signs - thirty two dollars ($32.00) per
sign, plus for each sign over five hundred (500) square feet, thirty five cents
($0.35) per square foot for each square foot over five hundred (500). The fee
shall be computed on the actual area of the display surface.
      4.   Electric or illuminated ground signs, any part of which projects
over the public way, fees shall be the same as computed for projecting signs as
specified in subsection A of this section.
Electrical or illuminated ground signs, entirely over private property - twenty
two dollars ($22.00) per sign.
      5.   Permits issued for the reerection or alteration of any electric
sign, illumination of signboards or illumination of flat or wall signs - twenty
two dollars ($22.00) per sign.
      6.   Permits issued for electric or illuminated signs to be erected for a
period not to exceed sixty (60) days - one-half (1/2) of the sign permit fee.
No fee shall be less than eleven dollars ($11.00).
      7.   The fee for cancellation of any sign permit shall be eleven dollars
($11.00) and shall be deducted before the remaining amount is refunded.
   B.   Sign Plan Examination Fees: The fees for the examination of sign plans
shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one-half (1/2) hour or fraction
thereof.
   C.   Annual Inspection Required: The commissioner of inspectional services
shall make an annual inspection of all electric or illuminated signs projecting
over the public way, electric or illuminated signs on private property,
illuminated signs flat against a building (flat signs), illuminated painted
wall signs, illuminated signboards, electric or illuminated roof signs and
electric or illuminated ground signs.
   D.   Annual Inspection Fees: The annual inspection fee to be charged for the
signs in subsection C of this section shall be as follows:
      1.   Electric or illuminated signs projecting over the public way -
twenty two dollars ($22.00) per sign plus seventy cents ($0.70) per square foot
of area of each face. The area of irregular shaped signs shall be computed
using the area of the outer perimeter design of the signs.
      2.   Electric or illuminated signs on private property, illuminated signs
flat against a building (flat signs), illuminated painted wall signs and
illuminated signboards - twenty two dollars ($22.00) per sign.
      3.   Electric or illuminated roof signs - thirty two dollars ($32.00) per
sign, plus for each sign over five hundred (500) square feet thirty five cents
($0.35) per square foot for each square foot over five hundred (500). The fee
shall be computed on the actual area of display surface.
      4.   Electric or illuminated ground signs, any part of which projects
over the public way, the fees shall be the same as computed for projecting
signs in subsection A of this section.
      5.   Electric or illuminated ground signs entirely over private property
- twenty two dollars ($22.00) per sign. (Ords. 84-26-76, 94-3-9, 01-09-32)
6-2A-5: GARAGES AND SWIMMING POOLS:
The following electrical permit fees shall be paid for garages and swimming
pools:
 
Garages        $40.00
Swimming pools 40.00
 
(Ords. 84-26-76, 94-3-9, 01-09-32)
6-2A-6: EXAMINATION OF PLANS:
The fees for examination of plans shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per
one-half (1/2) hour or fraction thereof per plan examiner.
NOTE:
      1.   For new buildings, service including new or remodeled loads in
existing building:
         1/2 hour for each 100 kVA of service up to 1,000 kVA.
         1 hour for each 500 kVA of service over 1,000 kVA.
      2.   For emergency lighting and fire alarm:
         1 hour per drawing unless the drawing exceeds 1 floor.
         1/2 hour for each additional floor, providing it is the same tenant.
      3.   For equipment, unit batteries, etc.:
         2 hours minimum.
      4.   For plenum fixtures:
         2 hours for the first fixture.
         1 hour for each additional fixture submitted at the same time.
      5.   For switchboards and motor control centers:
         1 hour per switchboard or motor control center.
         1/2 hour per each identical switchboard over 2.
      6.   Plans submitted without fee:
         1/2 hour additional handling and billing charge.
(Ords. 84-26-76, 94-3-9)
6-2A-7: SEARCHLIGHTS:
The fee for searchlights shall be three dollars ($3.00) per light for three (3)
nights, with a minimum fee of ten dollars ($10.00). (Ords. 66-23-62, 76-16-30,
94-3-9)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Intent
6-3-2: Illinois Plumbing Code
6-3-3: Permit Required, Issuance
6-3-4: Fees
6-3-5: Water Saving Devices
6-3-6: Miscellaneous Provisions
6-3-7: Administration
6-3-8: Sanitary Sewer Laterals And Taps
6-3-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to be liberally construed and the content to be
used in conjunction with the existing regulations. (1951 Code 21-11-4; Ord.
279)
6-3-2: ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE:
   A.   Code Adopted: A certain document, at least one (1) copy of which is on
file in the Office of the Village Clerk of the Village of Oak Lawn, Cook
County, Illinois, being marked and designated as the Illinois Plumbing Code (77
Ill. Admin. Code 890), as promulgated by the Illinois Department of Public
Health, and any subsequent amendments adopted by the department thereto, is
hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the Village of Oak Lawn, Cook County,
Illinois for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of
said Plumbing Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made part of, as if
fully set out in this section. (Ord. 17-11-27)
6-3-3: PERMIT REQUIRED, ISSUANCE 1 :
The Director of the Office of Quality Control shall issue permits, which are
required in all cases for all new installations, additions and/or alterations
to existing plumbing installations, upon application, where the proposed
installation, addition or alteration as described in such application is shown
to be in conformity with this Code. (Ord. 96-9-43)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 6-1A-2 of this title.
6-3-4: FEES:
   A.   Permits: The applicant shall pay to the Village a fee as follows:
Single-family dwelling:
 Minimum fee                                                          $ 50.00
  New building: Basic fixture count of 1 3-fixture bathroom, 1 kitchen
 sink, 1 set of laundry tubs, 1 hot water heater, 1 sump pump or a    100.00
  lesser count thereof
 Each additional fixture over the basic fixture count, including      15.00
  washing machines, garbage disposals and dishwashers
 Additions and/or alterations, each fixture                           15.00
Multiple-family buildings:
 Minimum fee                                                          200.00
  New building: For each and every apartment unit, basic fixture count
 of 1 3-fixture bathroom, 1 kitchen sink, 1 hot water heater, 1       90.00
  dishwasher or a lesser count thereof
 Each additional fixture over the basic fixture count, including      15.00
  washing machines, garbage disposals and dishwashers
 Additions and/or alterations, each fixture                           15.00
 Each fixture within or part of the building, exclusive of the        15.00
  apartment units
All other types of buildings:
 Minimum fee                                                          200.00
 Each fixture within or part of the building, exclusive of the        15.00
  apartment units
 Building additions: Minimum fee with a basic fixture count of 3 or   100.00
  less fixtures
 Each additional fixture over 3                                       15.00
Air conditioning equipment: Fees shall be paid at the time the application for
a permit is applied for, based on $6.00 per $1,000.00 cost of installation.
 
   B.   Reinspections: If a building fails to pass inspection and a
reinspection is necessary, then a reinspection fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00)
shall be charged. The reinspection fee shall be paid before a reinspection is
made. (1951 Code 21-11-3; Ords. 279, 69-20-59, 76-16-30, 81-13-22, 86-5-13, 08-
17-46, 08-19-55)
6-3-5: WATER SAVING DEVICES:
It is herewith required that the following water saving plumbing fixtures shall
be henceforth installed:
   A.   Flow Rates For New Construction And Replacement Fixtures: In all new
construction and in all repair and/or replacement of fixtures or trim, only
fixtures and trim not exceeding the following flow rates and/or water usage
shall be installed. These ratings are based on a pressure at the fixture of
forty (40) to fifty (50) psi:
 
                               Gallons
                                Per Flush
Water closets, tank type        3.5
Water closets, flushometer type 3.0
Urinals, tank type              3.0
Urinals, flushometer type       3.0
Showerheads                     3.0
Lavatory, sink faucets          3.0
 
   B.   Lavatories For Public Use: In addition to the requirement of subsection
A of this section, in all new construction and replacement of fixtures, faucets
of lavatories located in restrooms intended for public use shall be of metering
or self- closing type.
   C.   Car Wash Installations: In all new construction and replacement of
fixtures, car wash installations shall be equipped with a water recycling
system.
   D.   New And Replacement Plumbing Fixtures And Irrigation Controllers:
Pursuant to 17 Ill. Admin. Code 3730.307(c)(4), and subject to the Illinois
Plumbing Code (77 Ill. Admin. Code 890) and the Lawn Irrigation Contractor and
Lawn Sprinkler System Registration Code (77 Ill. Admin. Code 892), all new and
replacement plumbing fixtures and irrigation controllers installed after the
effective date of this subsection shall bear the WaterSense label (as
designated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency WaterSense Program),
when such labeled fixtures are available. (Ords. 77-20-34, 77-37-66, 17-11-27)
6-3-6: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Meters: It shall be required that all new water services be
individually metered.
   B.   Sanitary Sewer Flushing: The flushing of sanitary sewers with potable
water will be allowed only if the flushing is done with a high velocity type
sewer jet. Strict accounting of the water used for sanitary sewer flushing must
be made.
   C.   Misuse Of Plumber's Name: No plumber shall allow his name to be used by
any other person or party directly or indirectly for the purpose of obtaining
permits or doing any work under his license. (1951 Code 5-4-6; Ords. 77-30-24,
77-37-66)
6-3-7: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Plumbing Inspection Department: There is hereby established for the
Village, a Plumbing Inspection Department for the purpose of regulating the
installation, alteration and use of all plumbing equipment within the Village.
   B.   Plumbing Inspectors: Effective January 1, 2022:
      1.   Compensation: The remuneration of the Plumbing Inspector Supervisor
and the Plumbing Inspector Assistant for all plumbing inspection work performed
shall be as follows:
         a.   Plumbing Inspector Supervisor: Ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
per year.
         b.   Plumbing Inspector Assistant: Seven thousand dollars ($7,000.00)
per year.
   The compensation amounts listed above includes remuneration for any travel,
mileage or miscellaneous expenses incurred while conducting official Village
business.
   The remuneration of any additional part time plumbing inspector(s),
designated by the Director of Community Development, shall be one-half (½) of
all plumbing inspection fees collected under the applicable ordinances of the
Village relative to inspections actually performed by any part time plumbing
inspector.
   The Plumbing Inspector Supervisor and Plumbing Inspector Assistant are
considered part-time employees of the Village and as such are not eligible for
benefits including insurance and retirement plans. In addition, the policies
and procedures outlined in the Village of Oak Lawn Employee Handbook are
applicable to these positions, unless otherwise stated.
    C.   Salary Review: The salary figure for Plumbing Inspector Supervisor and
Plumbing Inspector Assistant, as set forth in subsection B of this section,
shall be reviewed on a semi-annual basis by the Village Manager, to determine
whether it should be increased, decreased or remain as is. Said review shall
consider the length of employment with the Village and will consist of a
comparison between the salaries paid and the plumbing permit and inspection
fees received by the Village during the previous six (6) months. (Ords. 96-9-
43, 10-01-02, 23-03-16, 25-03-03)
6-3-8: SANITARY SEWER LATERALS AND TAPS:
   A.   New Sanitary Sewer Laterals And Taps: All new construction of single-
family homes, multi-family buildings, commercial zoned structures,
manufacturing and institutional structures, and "additions" to greater than
fifty percent (50%) of the floor area of an existing structure, shall be
required to provide a new sanitary sewer service lateral and sanitary sewer
tap. Sanitary sewer laterals and sanitary sewer taps shall be constructed
according to the methods and materials defined in section
6-3-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Identification Of New Sanitary Sewer Laterals And Taps On Building
Plans: No building permit shall be issued for a site until the owner of the
site or his authorized agent has submitted building plans to the Building
Division identifying the new sanitary sewer service laterals and taps.
   C.   Existing Sewer Laterals And Taps: All existing sanitary sewer service
laterals and sanitary sewer taps shall be capped and sealed at the main wye
location to prevent the old sewer service lateral from leaking water into the
Village sewer line.
   D.   Exemptions: Parties wishing exemption from this requirement shall
provide written documentation and video to the Village Building Division and
Public Works Sewer Division. The written documentation and video must clearly
show to the satisfaction of Public Works, Engineering and Building Division
staff that the existing lateral and tap meet current Building and Plumbing
Codes and do not leak.
   E.   Enforcement: Enforcement of this Code shall be primarily conducted by
the Department of Public Works or their designated representative.
   F.   Standard Detail For Typical Riser For Sanitary Service Lateral:
Construction of sanitary service laterals shall conform to the methods and
materials shown in the standard detail "Typical Riser for Sanitary Service
Lateral (SAN-5)". A printed copy of this standard detail is available upon
request from the Building Division.
   G.   Standard Detail For Sanitary Sewer Installation: Construction of
sanitary sewers shall conform to the methods and materials shown in the
standard detail "Sanitary Sewer Installation (SAN-6)". A printed copy of this
standard detail is available upon request from the Building Division. (Ord. 12-
01-01)
CHAPTER 4
MECHANICAL SYSTEMS
SECTION:
6-4-1: International Mechanical Code; International Fuel And Gas Code
6-4-2: Inspections
6-4-3: Safety Of Existing Installations
6-4-4: Air Conditioning Units
6-4-4-1: Definitions
6-4-4-2: Regulations
6-4-1: INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE; INTERNATIONAL FUEL AND GAS CODE:
   A.   Codes Adopted: The International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, and the
International Fuel and Gas Code, 2018 edition, are adopted by reference by the
village for regulation of mechanical systems in the village. One copy of said
codes have been and are now filed in the office of the clerk, and the same are
herein incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and the provisions
thereof shall be controlling.
   B.   Applicability Of Codes: Where any provisions of the International
Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, or the International Fuel and Gas Code, 2018
edition, conflict with any provisions of this code, the provisions of this code
shall prevail and shall be applied as the law of the village.
   C.   Amendments To Code:
   Section 3001.2: Delete in its entirety.
   Table 3001.2: Delete "Automotive Lift Reference ALI ALCTV"
   Section 3002.4: Replace with the following language: "Elevator car to
accommodate ambulance stretcher. Where elevators are provided in buildings, not
fewer than one elevator, shall be provided for fire department emergency access
to all floors regardless of rise.
   Such elevator car shall be of such size and arrangement to accommodate a
minimum 24 inch by 84 inch ambulance stretcher in the horizontal open position
and shall be identified by the international symbol for emergency medical
services (Star of Life).
   The symbol shall be not less than 3 x 3 inches high and wide (76 mm x 76 mm)
and shall be placed inside on both sides of the main lobby hoistway door
frame."
   Section [F] 3003.3: Add the following language: “. . . for new and
modernized (existing) elevators only.”
   Section 3004.4: Amend the last sentence to read as follows: "Field tests
shall be conducted upon the completion of an installation or following a jump
or a major alteration of personnel hoist."
   Add the following sentence: "All miscellaneous hoisting an elevating
equipment shall be subjected to tests and inspections as required by the AIIJ
to ensure safe operation."
   Section 3005.1: Add the following language: "This means is not to be used as
a passageway though the space to other areas of the building."
   Section 3005.2: Delete "Exception #2" in its entirety.
(Ords. 14-04-10, 21-07-29)
6-4-2: INSPECTIONS:
The director of the office of quality control, or his authorized
representative, is responsible for the inspection of mechanical refrigeration
installations. Advisory consultants on inspection functions may be engaged by
the director with the approval of the village manager. (1951 Code 21-17A-2;
Ords. 270, 81-12-19; 1985 Code)
6-4-3: SAFETY OF EXISTING INSTALLATIONS:
Existing refrigeration systems in operation previous to June 1, 1958, shall be
maintained in a safe condition. (1951 Code 21-17A-3; Ord. 270)
6-4-4: AIR CONDITIONING UNITS 1 :
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 6-2-7-5 of this title.
6-4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated, whenever used in this section, the following
words shall have the meanings given to them herein:
AIR CONDITIONING: The cooling or dehumidification, or both, of space for human
occupancy, food preservation and industrial processing.
AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM, AIR CONDITIONING INSTALLATION: One or more air
conditioning units, the water for which passes through a common meter, whether
or not the units are owned by the property owner, the tenant or a combination
of both. It is intended that separate submetering for any one property owner or
tenant occupying different space in the same building could create separate
systems. It is not intended that submetering of individual units serving the
same space or adjacent space under one owner or tenant would create separate
systems.
INSTALLED CAPACITY: The total number of tons of refrigeration installed on one
air conditioning system.
TON OF REFRIGERATION: The heat required to melt ice at the rate of one ton in
twenty four (24) hours. One compressor horsepower shall be considered
equivalent to one ton of refrigeration.
WATER CONSERVING DEVICES: A cooling tower, spray pond, evaporation condenser or
other equipment by which water is cooled and recirculated, thereby limiting the
use of water from the mains to that amount lost through evaporation.
WATER REGULATING DEVICE: A regulating valve or other device, the purpose of
which is to limit the maximum use of water to a predetermined rate. (Ord. 81-
13-22)
6-4-4-2: REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have installed or to operate air
conditioning equipment without first conforming to the following regulations:
   A.   Permit And Notice Required: All water customers who desire to install
air conditioning and refrigeration equipment after the effective date of this
code are required to make written application therefor, and to obtain approval
and a permit therefor in advance from the quality control department, and are
required to give notice of the completion of the installation. All customers
who have installed air conditioning equipment prior to the effective date of
this code shall, in lieu of a permit, notify the chief building inspector of
such existing installation. Failure to give notice shall be considered a
violation of this code.
   B.   Water Conservation Devices Required: All air conditioning units shall
be equipped with water conservation devices so that water from the village
mains shall be used for make up and flushing purposes only. Any air
conditioning system is prohibited from using water from the mains in excess of
two-tenths (0.2) gallon per minute per ton. Each air conditioning system shall
be metered through the domestic water meter which is acceptable to the village.
   C.   Inspections, Right Of Entry Powers: The chief building inspector and
persons designated by him shall, at all reasonable hours, have free access to
premises supplied with water for air conditioning purposes, to examine the
equipment and to ascertain if there is more water being used than allowed by
this chapter.
   D.   Appeals: Whenever the chief building inspector shall reject or refuse
to approve any plan or specification for, or the mode or manner of construction
proposed to be used in the installation of any air conditioning equipment, or
when it is claimed that the provisions of this chapter do not apply or when it
is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this chapter have been
misconstrued or improperly interpreted, the owner or any person aggrieved may
appeal to the Appeals and Review Board pursuant to the provisions of the zoning
ordinance of the village. No public advertising shall be required as a
condition precedent to such appeal.
   E.   Compliance With Provisions: All air conditioning units installed prior
to the effective date of this code and contrary thereto must be converted,
modified or adjusted to comply with the same within an eighteen (18) month
period of time. (Ord. 81-13-22; 1985 Code; Ord. 19-16-65)
CHAPTER 5
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Purpose
6-5A-2: International Property Maintenance Code Adopted
6-5A-3: Additions, Insertions, Deletions And Changes
6-5A-4: Clothing Drop Boxes
6-5A-1: PURPOSE:
The purposes of this chapter are to establish the minimum regulations governing
the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; to
provide the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical
things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary
and fit for occupation and use; to provide for the condemnation of buildings
and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition of such
structures. (Ord. 07-27-89)
6-5A-2: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED:
The international property maintenance code, 2018 edition, is adopted by
reference by the village for the regulation of property maintenance in the
village. One copy of said code has been and is now filed in the office of the
clerk, and the same is herein incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling.
Where any provision of the International Property Maintenance Code, 2018
edition, conflict with any provisions of this village code, the provisions of
the village code shall prevail and shall be applied as law of the village.
(Ords. 14-04-10, 21-07-29)
6-5A-3: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, DELETIONS AND CHANGES:
Section 301.3.1: Add the following language, "Vacant dwellings must be
registered with Cook County department of building and zoning,
vbo.cookcountyil.gov/01022, within 30 days of vacancy".
Section 108.4: Add the placarding term, "uninhabitable."
(Ord. 14-04-10)
6-5A-4: CLOTHING DROP BOXES:
The placement or maintaining of clothing drop boxes on any commercial property
in the village shall be prohibited, provided, however, clothing drop boxes may
be maintained on property owned by public or private schools, churches,
hospitals and charitable organizations. (Ord. 08-04-16)
ARTICLE B. NON-OWNER OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNITS
PERMIT PROGRAM
SECTION:
6-5B-1: Permits For Non-Owner Occupied Residential Dwelling Units
6-5B-2: Applicability
6-5B-3: Inspections/Fees
6-5B-4: Preinspection Of Residential Dwelling Units
6-5B-5: Compliance Report/Notice Of Violations
6-5B-6: Application For And Content Of Non-Owner Occupied Residential Dwelling
Unit Occupancy Permit
6-5B-7: Responsibilities Of Owner, Agent And/Or Manager
6-5B-8: Fossil Fueled Equipment
6-5B-9: Responsibility Of Tenants
6-5B-10: Criminal Activity On The Premises
6-5B-11: Revocation Of Non-Owner Occupied Residential Dwelling Unit Occupancy
Permit Or Code Compliance Report Due To Physical Defects In The Dwelling Unit
6-5B-12: Revocation Of Non-Owner Occupied Residential Dwelling Unit Occupancy
Permit Or Code Compliance Report Due To Maintenance Of A Nuisance
6-5B-13: Hearing Procedures For Revocation, Suspension Or Nonrenewal Of A Non-
Owner Occupied Residential Dwelling Unit Occupancy Permit Or Code Compliance
Report
6-5B-14: Expenses Related To Nuisance Abatement
6-5B-15: Penalty
6-5B-1: PERMITS FOR NON-OWNER OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNITS:
   It is unlawful for any owner, manager, or agent thereof to knowingly permit
the occupation of any non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit, to include
multi- family dwellings, apartment units, townhouses, condominiums, duplexes,
or single-family rental units, or additions thereto, including monthly rentals
or occupation of same, for any purpose until a Code compliance report as
required in this article has been issued by the Department of Community
Development, Division of Code Compliance, confirming conformity with this
chapter (hereinafter referred to as a “Code compliance report”) and a non-owner
occupied residential dwelling unit occupancy permit has been completed, signed
by the prospective tenant(s), and approved by the Division of Code Compliance.
Thereafter, all properties shall be inspected annually and an updated
certificate of occupancy issued. No occupancy permit shall be issued to any
owner, manager, or agent thereof, if such an owner, manager, or agent is
indebted to the Village and until all violations of this article and all other
applicable codes and ordinances of the Village have been brought into
compliance. The possession of a Code compliance report in and of itself does
not authorize occupancy of said property. The occupancy permit issued to the
tenant shall state that the premises and occupancy thereof comply with all the
provisions of this article at all times.
(Ords. 19-06-11, 25-12-34)
6-5B-2: APPLICABILITY:
This article shall be applicable to all residential properties in the Village
that are rented or leased, which shall be defined as any residential dwelling
unit, rooming unit or such other residential building or structure wherein the
owner or owner's agent allows an individual or individuals to occupy space
while charging a daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly or annual fee for the
privilege of occupying said space. All areas of the residential dwelling unit
to which the lessee or renter has the right of use or access shall be subject
to inspection for compliance with the applicable codes and ordinances of the
Village. This section shall not apply to any occupancy in existence at the time
of the adoption of this article until the change of occupancy occurs. Further,
this section shall not apply to any land contract, contract for sale or any
other property transaction wherein the new occupant has legally committed to
acquire legal title to the property and has occupied the premises within sixty
(60) days of the date of the contract. (Ord. 07-27-89)
6-5B-3: INSPECTIONS/FEES:
   A.   Inspections:
      1.   Prior to the time that the department is scheduled to conduct an
inspection, the department shall deliver to the owner and occupants of the
structure written notice that includes the following:
         a.   The date and time of the inspection.
         b.   A statement that the owner or tenant has the right to withhold
his or her consent to the inspection and require the Village to attempt to
obtain a warrant to conduct the inspection.
      2.   If the owner or occupant does not consent to the attempted
inspection, the Director of Inspectional Services ("Director") or his or her
designee shall seek in the Circuit Court of Cook County a warrant in accordance
with the appropriate laws of the State of Illinois to allow an inspection. The
application for the warrant shall specify the basis upon which the warrant is
being sought and shall include a statement that the inspection will be limited
to a determination whether there are violations of the Village Building and
Zoning Ordinances or any applicable Housing, Fire or Property Maintenance Codes
or regulations. The court may consider any of the following factors along with
such other matters as it deems pertinent in its decision as to whether a
warrant shall issue:
         a.   Eyewitness account of violation;
         b.   Citizen complaints;
         c.   Tenant complaints;
         d.   Plain view violations;
         e.   Violations apparent from Village records;
         f.   Property deterioration;
         g.   Age of property;
         h.   Nature of alleged violation;
         i.   Similar properties in the area;
         j.   Documented violations on similar properties in the area;
         k.   Passage of time since last inspection;
         l.   Previous violations on the property.
   B.   Annual Inspection Fees:
      1.   No fee for the first inspection.
      2.   First reinspection: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   Second reinspection: Two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      4.   Third and subsequent reinspections: Three hundred dollars ($300.00).
(Ord. 15-06-22)
6-5B-4: PREINSPECTION OF RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNITS:
   The owner, agent or manager of a residential unit subject to the terms of
this article may request that the unit be inspected for code compliance even
though there is no prospective new tenant for the unit.
(Ords. 07-27-89, 25-12-34)
6-5B-5: COMPLIANCE REPORT/NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Report And Certificate Issued: If the annual inspection establishes
that the non- owner occupied residential dwelling unit complies with all the
provisions of the property maintenance code as well as all other health,
zoning, and building ordinances of the village, then the department of
inspectional services shall issue a code compliance report and certificate of
occupancy for said dwelling or structure. The certificate shall indicate the
date of the inspection; and that such dwelling or structure complies with the
requirements of the property maintenance code as well as other health and
building ordinances that apply to the dwelling. One copy of the certificate
shall be delivered to or mailed to the owner of the dwelling unit. A record of
all certificates shall be kept on file by the department, and copies shall be
furnished upon request to any person having a proprietary interest or tenancy
interest in the dwelling affected. Every certificate of occupancy shall be
issued for a period of one year after its date of issuance, unless sooner
revoked.
   B.   Notice Of Violations: Whenever the building official determines that
any non- owner occupied residential dwelling unit or the premises surrounding
fails to meet the requirements set forth in this chapter or in applicable rules
and regulations issued pursuant thereto, the building official in accordance
with the property maintenance code and the other village health, property
maintenance and building codes shall issue a notice setting forth the alleged
failures and advising the responsible party that such failures must be
corrected. This notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing.
      2.   Set forth the alleged violations of this chapter or of applicable
rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto.
      3.   Describe the non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit where the
violations are alleged to exist or to have been committed. Such written notice
shall specify an appropriate or acceptable method of correction.
      4.   Specify a specific date for the correction of any violation alleged.
      5.   Be served upon the responsible party of the non-owner occupied
residential dwelling unit by the building official, or mailed to the
responsible party. If one or more persons to whom such notice is addressed
cannot be found after diligent effort to do so, service may be made upon such
persons by posting the notice in or about the non-owner occupied residential
dwelling unit described in the notice.
      6.   At the end of the period of time allowed for the correction of any
violation alleged, which was stated in the inspection notice, the building
official shall reinspect the non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit or
property described in the notice.
      7.   If, upon reinspection, the violations are determined by the building
official not to have been corrected, the building official, in turn, shall
issue a code compliance ticket to initiate legal proceedings to be handled in
the village of Oak Lawn’s housing court for the immediate correction of the
alleged violations or shall order the non- owner occupied residential unit
vacated within thirty (30) days, or both.
(Ords. 15-06-22, 25-12-34)
6-5B-6: APPLICATION FOR AND CONTENT OF NON-OWNER OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
UNIT OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
   The non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit occupancy permit
application must be completed and signed by the tenant before the date of
occupancy. Non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit occupancy permit
applications may be completed at the department of community development,
division of code compliance or completed in the presence of the landlord or the
landlord's agent before the time of occupancy. A non-owner occupied residential
dwelling unit occupancy permit application completed in the presence of the
landlord or the landlord's agent must contain the signature of the landlord or
agent following a certification that the application form was completed in his
presence and contains true and accurate information regarding the tenants who
will be occupying the non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit. All non-
owner occupied residential dwelling unit occupancy permit applications must be
submitted to the division of code compliance no later than seven (7) days after
completion. The non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit occupancy permit
shall state the names and the number of people who will occupy the residential
unit. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false statement
in his/her application for a non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit
occupancy permit as to the names, relationships, or number of occupants of the
dwelling unit. All persons who occupy the premises of a residential unit,
including persons who are added to the household following the initial
occupancy of the dwelling unit, with the exception of minor children born to
the family, must be listed on the non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit
occupancy permit.
(Ords. 15-06-22, 25-12-34)
6-5B-7: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER, AGENT AND/OR MANAGER:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this article, the following terms
shall have the meanings hereinafter ascribed to them:
   DWELLING: Any enclosed space which is wholly or partly used or intended to
be used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or that is occupied
for living purposes.
   DWELLING UNIT: A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY: Immediate family means kinship members including:
      (1)   Mother: A female parent;
      (2)   Father: A male parent;
      (3)   Son: A male child of the parent(s);
      (4)   Daughter: A female child of the parent(s);
      (5)   Brother: A male child of the same parent(s);
      (6)   Sister: A female child of the same parent(s);
      (7)   Grandfather: A parent's father;
      (8)   Grandmother: A parent's mother;
      (9)   Grandson: A child's son;
      (10)   Granddaughter: A child's daughter.
   MANAGING AGENT: Any person or firm, acting for another, with authority to
rent or otherwise authorize occupancy, manage and make expenditures.
   NON-OWNER OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT: Any multiple dwelling or
dwelling unit which is not owner occupied, and which is either rented, leased,
occupied or made available for leasing or rental or occupancy to others by the
property owner or his/her agent. The occupancy of a single room or the sharing
of a dwelling unit between the property owner of the dwelling unit and others
shall not constitute a non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit. The term
includes the occupancy of property pursuant to articles of agreement for
purchase or a contract for deed until the deed is delivered by the owner.
   B.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, lease or
otherwise allow a dwelling or dwelling unit under their ownership to be
occupied by others as a non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit unless a
non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit permit is in effect, as provided
by this article. Permits shall be issued by the Community Development Director
or their designee for a period of one year from July 1 to June 30. Any permit
may be transferred to another person, subject to completion and approval of a
new permit application by the new permitee. In the event an owner can submit a
sworn affidavit that an immediate family member is occupying the dwelling, the
owner shall not be required to register the property after submittal and
Village review and approval of said affidavit. The owner shall instead submit
the name and contact phone number for the occupant for the Village records.
   C.   Application: No non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit permit
shall be issued except upon a receipt of a completed Village of Oak Lawn
landlord permit application filed with the Community Development Director or
his designee. Except as hereinafter provided, such applications shall be
submitted to the Community Development Director or his designee no later than
July 1 preceding the permit year being applied for with the appropriate fees.
The applications shall set forth, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      1.   Full name and address of the legal owner; if owned by a trust, a
trust disclosure is required.
      2.   The permit application shall designate three (3) contacts, including
the property owner, their names, addresses and phone numbers for twenty four
(24) hour contact in case of an emergency.
      3.   The permit application shall list all the non-owner occupied
residential dwelling units owned or managed by the applicant in the Village of
Oak Lawn.
      4.   Proof of ongoing rodent abatement services and quarterly rodent
activity reports are required to register all non-owner occupied residential
dwelling unit properties.
   D.   Reports: The permitee shall report to the Code Enforcement Department
any changes in the information provided on the application or a conveyance of
the property, within seven (7) days of said change or conveyance.
   E.   Issuance Of Permit; Payment Of Permitting Fees; Fee: No permit shall be
issued until the applicable permit fees as set forth in Section
3-1-1-7 of this Code have been paid.
   Renewal shall be required annually.
   F.   Outstanding Monies Due And Owing The Village: Before a permit may be
issued to a permitee hereunder, the permittee shall pay all outstanding fees,
fines or penalties due and owing the Village.
(Ords. 15-06-22, 15-23-82, 19-05-09, 21-20-91, 25-12-34)
6-5B-8: FOSSIL FUELED EQUIPMENT:
   At the discretion of the Code enforcement official, whenever a compliance
inspection is required by the provisions of this article, an owner, agent or
manager of non-owner occupied residential dwelling units, who is responsible
for renting or leasing or occupation of the dwelling units, shall have all
fossil fueled equipment inspected by a qualified service person registered with
the village in order to ensure safe operation of all appliances and
appurtenances attached thereto, provided that, such inspection of fossil fueled
equipment shall not be required when the equipment has been inspected and
approved less than twelve (12) months prior to such compliance inspection of a
unit. The owner, agent or manager of the dwelling shall submit documentation to
the code enforcement department certifying the fossil fueled equipment is in
compliance, and a non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit permit shall not
be issued until such documentation is submitted. If any areas have been found
to be deficient, a qualified service person registered with the village shall
repair the deficiency immediately or take such other action as is necessary to
make the condition safe. When this is not possible, the device’s operation
shall be terminated immediately. Where any action is taken under this section,
the community development department shall be notified within one hour of such
occurrence.
(Ords. 07-27-89, 25-12-34)
6-5B-9: RESPONSIBILITY OF TENANTS:
   Each tenant or lessee or occupant shall provide the division of code
compliance with the information required on the non-owner occupied residential
dwelling unit occupancy permit. The tenant shall complete a new non-owner
occupied residential dwelling unit occupancy permit if there is any change as
to the names or number of tenants living in the residential unit, with the
exception of minor children born to the family. Any falsification of the
information on the non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit occupancy
permit shall constitute a violation of this article. Any person responsible for
the falsification of information or failure to update information shall be
subject to the penalties of this article. Further, no tenant shall damage or
cause to be damaged any unit or building leased, nor shall any damage be caused
to the general premises of any building used by the tenants. Each tenant and
the family of each tenant shall maintain his/their non-owner occupied
residential dwelling unit free of any litter, and tenants shall not litter any
of the premises or the buildings provided for use by tenants.
(Ords. 07-27-89, 25-12-34)
6-5B-10: CRIMINAL ACTIVITY ON THE PREMISES:
   In the event that the residential dwelling unit is used by the tenant or
lessee or occupant for activities which would constitute a felony under the
laws of the state of Illinois or the laws of the United States, including, but
not limited to: a) the wrongful using, keeping or selling of controlled
substances or b) use of the premises for purposes of lewdness, assignation or
prostitution, the lease or occupancy shall, at the option of the lessor, become
void and the lessor or owner shall have the like remedy to recover possession
thereof as against a tenant holding over after the expiration of his term. From
and after  January 1, 2008, all leases shall contain the following addendum in
addition to all other terms of the lease:
   A.   Landlord and tenant agree as follows:
      1.   The tenant, any member of the tenant’s household, any guest or any
other person associated with the tenant on or near the leased premises:
         a.   Shall not engage in criminal activity, including drug related
criminal activity, on or near the leased premises. “Drug related criminal
activity” means the illegal manufacture, sale, distribution, use or possession
of any illegal or controlled substance as defined in 21 USC 802;
         b.   Shall not engage in any act intended to facilitate criminal
activity;
         c.   Shall not permit the dwelling unit to be used for or to
facilitate any criminal activity; or
         d.   Shall not maintain a “nuisance” on the premises as defined in
title 8, chapter 1 of this code.
      2.   Any activity prohibited by this agreement shall constitute a
substantial violation of the lease, material noncompliance with the lease, and
grounds for termination of tenancy and eviction.
(Ords. 07-27-89, 25-12-34)
6-5B-11: REVOCATION OF NON-OWNER OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT OCCUPANCY
PERMIT OR CODE COMPLIANCE REPORT DUE TO PHYSICAL DEFECTS IN THE DWELLING UNIT:
   A non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit occupancy permit or code
compliance report may be immediately revoked at any time during the occupancy
of the non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit for which the code
compliance report and/or non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit occupancy
permit has been issued, should the code enforcement officer determine,
following a reasonable investigation, that the unit no longer complies with the
provisions of this article due to physical defects in the non-owner occupied
residential dwelling unit. Prior to revoking a non-owner occupied residential
dwelling unit occupancy permit and/or code compliance report, hereunder, the
code enforcement officer shall provide the owner, agent or manager and the
tenant with a written report stating the defects noted during the investigation
and providing a reasonable time for the correction of said defects, except when
the conditions of the unit pose an immediate threat to the life and safety of
the occupants, in which case, upon application by the code enforcement officer,
the village manager may issue an emergency notice of revocation to the owner,
agent or manager and the tenant immediately and shall then cause the unit to be
vacated without delay. Procedures for revocation of a non-owner occupied
residential dwelling unit occupancy permit or code compliance report shall be
in accordance with section
6-5B-13 of this article, except in the case of an emergency notice of
revocation.
(Ords. 07-27-89, 25-12-34)
6-5B-12: REVOCATION OF NON-OWNER OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT OCCUPANCY
PERMIT OR CODE COMPLIANCE REPORT DUE TO MAINTENANCE OF A NUISANCE:
   A non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit occupancy permit and/or code
compliance report may be suspended, not renewed or revoked at any time during
the occupancy of the dwelling unit for which the code compliance report has
been issued, should the code enforcement officer determine, following a
reasonable investigation, that the unit no longer complies with the provisions
of this article due to maintenance of a nuisance on the premises.
   A.   Cause for revocation, suspension or refusal to renew a tenant’s non-
owner occupied residential dwelling unit occupancy permit due to maintenance of
nuisance shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
      1.   A tenant’s knowingly permitting illegal drug activity to occur on or
within the premises subject to inspection under this article. The term “illegal
drug related activity”, as used herein, shall mean any conduct which would
violate any provision of the Illinois controlled substances act, as amended,
the Illinois cannabis control act, as amended, the Illinois drug paraphernalia
control act, as amended, or any other local, state, or federal law prohibiting
the manufacture, distribution, delivery, use, or possession of a controlled
substance.
      2.   A tenant’s knowingly permitting prostitution related activity to
occur on or within the premises subject to inspection under this article. The
term “prostitution related activity”, as used herein, shall mean any conduct
which violates any provision of the prostitution related portions of the
Illinois criminal code, as amended, or any other local, state, or federal law
prohibiting prostitution related activity.
      3.   Any activity by a tenant, or by a guest of the tenant with the
tenant’s sufferance or permission, which would constitute a nuisance. The term
“nuisance”, as used herein shall mean any conduct of individuals or condition
of property that injures or endangers the health, safety, peace, and welfare of
the surrounding community or that obstructs the reasonable use of the property.
The term “nuisance” shall include that conduct or condition of property that
has been defined by Illinois or local law to constitute a nuisance. In
addition, a non- owner occupied residential dwelling unit shall be treated as a
nuisance if either:
         a.   The non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit has been the
subject of three (3) or more complaints for police service within a twelve (12)
month period due to the misconduct either of the tenant(s) or of the guest(s)
of the tenant(s) with the tenant’s sufferance or permission. The twelve (12)
month period referred to in this subsection shall be a continuously rolling
period that shall be measured not on a calendar year basis but on the basis of
the twelve (12) months immediately preceding the complaint, call for service,
or violation; or
         b.   The village has declared the non-owner occupied residential
dwelling unit or the lot on which dwelling is located a public nuisance due to
the condition of the property or the conduct of the tenants or guests occupying
the property.
      Any policeman, building inspector or code enforcement officer, upon
receipt of a tenant conduct complaint, shall issue a notice directed to the
owner of record of the property on which the nuisance occurs, as shown in the
records of the recorder of deeds, and to the tenant or occupant of the property
or to both, which notice shall describe the nature of the complaint and the
penalties which may be imposed if the nuisance is not abated.
   B.   Cause for revocation, suspension or refusal to renew a code compliance
letter due to maintenance of a nuisance shall include, but is not limited to,
the following:
      1.   An owner, manager or agent’s knowingly permitting illegal drug
activity to occur on or within the premises subject to inspection under this
article. The term “illegal drug related activity”, as used herein, shall mean
any conduct which would violate any provision of the Illinois controlled
substances act, as amended, the Illinois cannabis control act, as amended, the
Illinois drug paraphernalia control act, as amended, or any other local, state,
or federal law prohibiting the manufacture, distribution, delivery, use, or
possession of a controlled substance.
      2.   An owner, manager or agent’s knowingly permitting prostitution
related activity to occur on or within the premises subject to inspection under
this article.
      The term “prostitution related activity”, as used herein, shall mean any
conduct which violates any provision of the prostitution related portions of
the Illinois criminal code, as amended, or any other local, state, or federal
law prohibiting prostitution related activity.
      3.   Any activity by a tenant or guest of the tenant with the owner,
manager or agent’s sufferance or permission which would constitute a nuisance
as set forth in subsection A3 of this section.
(Ords. 07-27-89, 25-12-34)
6-5B-13: HEARING PROCEDURES FOR REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR NONRENEWAL OF A NON-
OWNER OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT OCCUPANCY PERMIT OR CODE COMPLIANCE
REPORT:
   A.   Upon the determination by the supervisor of the division of code
compliance or the supervisor of the community policing unit or their designees
that there is reasonable cause to believe that a non-owner occupied residential
dwelling unit occupancy permit and/or code compliance report should be revoked,
suspended or not renewed because of a violation of this article, notice of a
hearing, together with a written statement of charges, shall be sent to the
owner, manager or agent and the tenant(s). The hearing officer designated under
title 11, chapter 12 of this code shall act as the hearing officer. Such a
hearing shall be held not less than five (5) calendar days after notice of
time, place and subject of the hearing has been received by the owner, manager
or agent and tenant, at their last known address or business address. The
village’s representative shall present evidence in support of the suspension,
revocation or nonrenewal, and the owner, manager, agent and/or tenant shall be
permitted to rebut such evidence and present any other evidence that is
relevant and material. Based on the evidence presented at the hearing, the
hearing officer shall issue a written decision. The hearing officer’s decision
shall be final and binding unless appealed as hereinafter provided. The
suspension or revocation of any non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit
occupancy permit and/or code compliance report shall not release or discharge
the owner, manager, agent or tenant, as appropriate, from paying any fees due
under this article, nor shall such owner, manager, agent or tenant be released
from prosecution for violating this article.
   B.   If the hearing officer determines that a violation has occurred, the
hearing officer may fine the violator and may also revoke, suspend or refuse to
renew the non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit occupancy permit and/or
code compliance report or may allow a time certain for abatement of the
nuisance (the “cure period”). If a cure period is allowed by the hearing
officer, immediately upon termination of the cure period, the policeman, code
enforcement officer, or inspector of the building department who served the
notice, or any other policeman or inspector who shall be assigned by the police
(the “village code official”), shall investigate to determine whether or not
the nuisance complained of has been abated.
   C.   In the event the person upon whom notice has been served pursuant to
this article has failed within the prescribed time to demonstrate that the
nuisance has been abated, in addition to the payment of any fines or costs
ordered by the hearing officer as a penalty, the village code official may
request that the village attorney seek a restraining order and a preliminary
injunction, as well as a permanent injunction, before a court with proper
jurisdiction over such an action in order to remedy and abate the violation and
to enjoin further violations of this article.
   D.   The hearing officer’s decision may further authorize the village to
recover any expenses incurred by the village in abating a public nuisance under
the provisions of this article or as authorized by any other applicable law or
ordinance.
   E.   Any person whose non-owner occupied residential dwelling unit occupancy
permit and/or code compliance report has been suspended or revoked or not
renewed by the hearing officer after a hearing under this section may appeal
the hearing officer’s decision to the board of trustees by filing a written
notice of appeal with the village board within three (3) business days of the
person’s receipt of the hearing officer’s decision. The board of trustees, or
its designated hearing committee, shall review the hearing officer’s decision
and may affirm or reverse the decision or remand it to the hearing officer for
further action or review.
(Ords. 07-27-89, 25-12-34)
6-5B-14: EXPENSES RELATED TO NUISANCE ABATEMENT:
In addition to any penalty, fine or other remedy established by law or
ordinance, all expenses incurred by the village in abating a nuisance at a
building or structure that has been declared a public nuisance by the village
shall be chargeable to and collected from the person who created, continued or
permitted the nuisance to exist. These expenses may include, but are not
limited to, the cost of personnel, equipment and materials, including
firefighting personnel and equipment, used to abate the nuisance. It is not a
defense to the payment of these expenses that the village may have otherwise
experienced such costs in the ordinary course of business. (Ord. 07-27-89)
6-5B-15: PENALTY:
   A.   The penalty for a violation of section
6-5B-7 of this article shall be as follows:
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) per unit if the license is not
obtained by the due date.
      2.   The penalty provided in subsection B of this section, if the license
is not obtained within the sixty (60) day period after the due date.
   B.   The penalty for a violation of any section of this article, except as
otherwise provided herein with respect to section
6-5B-7 of this article violations, shall be not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) per unit nor more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ords. 15-06-22, 25-12-34)
ARTICLE C. ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
6-5C-1: Definitions
6-5C-2: Public Nuisances Prohibited
6-5C-3: Preabatement Procedure
6-5C-4: Judicial Abatement Procedure
6-5C-5: Judicial Abatement Remedy
6-5C-6: Penalty
6-5C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them herein:
GUEST OR INVITEE: Any person physically present on the property with the
permission or sufferance of the owner(s) or occupant(s) of the property.
NUISANCE OFFENSE:
   A.   Any offense defined and prohibited by article 9 (homicide) of the
criminal code of 1961, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-1 et seq.
   B.   Any offense defined and prohibited by article 10 (kidnapping and
related offenses) of the criminal code of 1961, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/10-1 et seq.
   C.   Any offense defined and prohibited by section 11-14 (prostitution),
section 11-15 (soliciting for a prostitute), section 11-16 (pandering), section
11-17 (keeping a place of prostitution), section 11-20 (obscenity), section 11-
20.1 (child pornography), or section 11-21 (harmful material to minors) of the
criminal code of 1961, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14, 5/11-15, 5/11-
16, 5/11-17, 5/11-20, 5/11-20.1 and 5/11-21.
   D.   Any offense defined and prohibited by article 12 (bodily harm) of the
criminal code of 1961, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-1 et seq.
   E.   Any offense defined and prohibited by article 16 (theft and related
offenses) of the criminal code of 1961, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-
1 et seq.
   F.   Any offense defined and prohibited by section 20-2 (possession of
explosives or incendiary devices) of the criminal code of 1961, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/20-2 et seq.
   G.   Any offense defined and prohibited by article 24 (deadly weapons) of
the criminal code of 1961, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-1 et seq.
   H.   Any offense defined and prohibited by article 25 (mob action) of the
criminal code of 1961, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1 et seq.
   I.   Any offense defined and prohibited by section 26-1 (disorderly conduct)
of the criminal code of 1961, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/26-1 et seq.
   J.   Any offense defined and prohibited by article 28 (gambling) of the
criminal code of 1961, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1 et seq.
   K.   Any offense defined and prohibited by article 31 (interference with
public officers) of the criminal code of 1961, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/31-1 et seq.
   L.   Any offense defined and prohibited by section 6-16 (prohibited sales
and possession) or section 6-20 (purchase or acceptance of gift of liquor by
persons under age 21) of the liquor control act of 1934, 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-16 and 5/6-20.
   M.   Any offense defined and prohibited by the Illinois controlled
substances act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/100 et seq.
   N.   Any offense defined and prohibited by the cannabis control act, 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq.
   O.   Any inchoate offense defined and prohibited by article 8 (inchoate
offenses) of the criminal code of 1961, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-1 et
seq., which is relative to the commission of any of the aforesaid public
offenses.
   P.   Any conduct of persons or condition of property that injures or
endangers the health, safety, peace and welfare of the surrounding community or
that obstructs the reasonable use of the property, including conduct or any
condition of property that has been defined by Illinois or local law to
constitute a nuisance.
OCCUPANT: Any person in actual or constructive possession of any real property
within the corporate limits of the village, or any of the buildings,
structures, fixtures of improvements located thereon.
ONE YEAR PERIOD: A three hundred sixty five (365) day period commencing on the
date of commission of a nuisance offense.
OWNER: Any person having any legal or equitable ownership interest whatsoever
in any real property within the corporate limits of the village, together with
the buildings, structures, fixtures or improvements located thereon, or who, by
any means whatsoever, has the ability, authority or right to regulate,
restrain, control, direct or affect the conduct of persons present on any such
property.
PERMIT OR SUFFER: To allow, approve, consent to, acquiesce in, agree to, or
failure to prevent through inaction.
PERSON: Any natural individual, corporation, firm, partnership, limited
liability company, unincorporated association, or any other group, enterprise
or entity capable of owning, using or occupying property.
PROPERTY: Any parcel of real property, together with the area within one
hundred feet (100') of any property line of said parcel of property, and any
buildings, structures, improvements or fixtures located thereon or affixed
thereto.
PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   The use by the owner(s) or occupant(s) of a parcel of real property
within the village, including buildings, structures, fixtures or improvements
thereon, in conjunction with the commission of three (3) or more nuisance
offenses within any given one year period; or
   B.   The use by guests or invitees of the owner(s) or occupant(s), with the
owner's or occupant's permission or sufferance, of a parcel of real property
within the village, including buildings, structures, fixtures or improvements
thereon, in conjunction with three (3) or more nuisance offenses within any
given one year period; or
   C.   Any combination of nuisance offenses committed by either the owner(s),
occupant(s) or their respective guest(s) or invitee(s), pursuant to subsection
A or B of this definition, which in combination total three (3) or more
nuisance offenses within any given one year period. (Ord. 07-27-89)
6-5C-2: PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of a parcel of property in the
village to intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or negligently permit or suffer
such property in which such person has an ownership interest to become, to
exist or to be used as a public nuisance. (Ord. 07-27-89)
6-5C-3: PREABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
Upon determination by the chief of police or his designee that there is
reasonable cause to believe that more than one nuisance offense has occurred on
a parcel of property within any given one year period, the chief of police or
his designee shall take the following action:
   A.   Notify by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal
service, the owner(s) and the occupant(s) of the property in question that said
property may be in danger of becoming a public nuisance under the provisions of
this article which notice shall identify the property in question by either
street address, PIN number or legal description, describe the acts or conduct
which have occurred on the property that could serve as part of the basis for
determining that the property constitutes a public nuisance, and request that
the owner(s) and occupant(s) contact the chief of police or his designee within
fourteen (14) days of the date of the letter to discuss potential courses of
action which will prevent and deter the property in question from becoming a
public nuisance.
   B.   After providing the aforesaid written notice, the chief of police or
his designee shall use his/her best efforts in order to identify and agree with
the owner(s) and/or occupant(s) upon a course of conduct to prevent the
property from becoming a public nuisance under this article.
   C.   The preabatement procedures required in this section shall be deemed
satisfied if:
      1.   The owner(s) and/or occupant(s) fail to meet with the chief of
police or his designee within fourteen (14) days after the mailing of the
preabatement notice; or
      2.   After meeting with the chief of police or his designee, the owner(s)
and/or occupant(s) refuse to enter into an agreement with respect to a
preabatement course of conduct; or
      3.   The owner(s) and/or occupant(s), after agreeing to a preabatement
course of conduct, breach that agreement; or
      4.   A rent/lease permit or code compliance letter has been revoked after
notice and an administrative hearing as provided in article B of this chapter
because the property has been determined to be "public nuisance" as herein
defined, in conjunction with the aforesaid administrative hearing. (Ord. 07-27-
89)
6-5C-4: JUDICIAL ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
After the satisfaction of the preabatement procedures set forth in section
6-5C-3 of this article, upon determination by the chief of police or his
designees shall so notify the village attorney to initiate judicial proceedings
in the circuit court to abate the public nuisance and to seek the penalties and
remedies provided with respect thereto by the provisions of this article. (Ord.
07-27-89)
6-5C-5: JUDICIAL ABATEMENT REMEDY:
In the event that the village establishes during the course of a judicial
action or administrative proceeding that property within the corporate limits
of the village constitutes a public nuisance, a court with appropriate
jurisdiction has the power and in its discretion may issue a restraining order,
a preliminary injunction, as well as a permanent injunction in order to abate
the public nuisance under such conditions as will do justice and enforce the
purposes of this article. Judicial abatement may include an order restraining
the owner(s) and occupant(s) from using the property for any purpose for a
period of up to one year, which order may further provide that the owner(s) and
occupant(s) shall have the right to use the property during the period of time
specified in the order if any of them shall post a bond or other security
payable to the circuit court and approved by the court in an amount between
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), which
bond or security shall be forfeited and paid over to the circuit court by the
obligor thereof in the event that any additional nuisance offense is committed
upon such property within the period of time set forth in the court order.
(Ord. 07-27-89)
6-5C-6: PENALTY:
In addition to the judicial abatement remedy set forth hereinabove, any person
who is an owner or occupant of any property determined in a judicial action, or
in an administrative proceeding under title 11, chapter 12 of this code, to
constitute a public nuisance who has intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or
negligently permitted or suffered such property to become, be used as or exist
as a public nuisance shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) per day for each day on which
such property was used as or existed as a public nuisance. (Ord. 07-27-89)
CHAPTER 6
CONDOMINIUMS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Applicability Of Provisions
6-6-3: Administration
6-6-4: Property Report
6-6-5: Requirements Of Developer
6-6-6: Examination Of Records
6-6-7: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
6-6-8: Provisions Are Additional, Compliance By Injunction
6-6-9: Penalties
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
BLANKET ENCUMBRANCE: A trust deed, mortgage, judgment or other lien or
encumbrance, including an option or contract to sell or a trust agreement
affecting a condominium including any lien or other encumbrance arising as a
result of the imposition of any tax assessment by a public authority.
BOARD OF MANAGERS: The board of managers provided and referred to in the
Illinois condominium property act 1 .
CLOSING OF THE SALE: The operation of transferring ownership of a condominium
unit to the purchaser from the developer.
COMMON ELEMENTS: All of the condominium except the condominium units. "Common
elements" also includes limited common elements.
CONDOMINIUM: A form of property established pursuant to the Illinois
condominium property act.
CONDOMINIUM PROJECT: The sale of or plan by a designer to sell, or the offering
for sale of residential condominium units in an existing building or building
to be constructed or under construction.
CONDOMINIUM UNIT OR UNIT: A separate, three-dimensional (3-D) area within the
condominium identified as such in the declaration and on the condominium plat,
and shall include all improvements contained within such area except those
excluded in the declaration.
CONVERSION, CONVERT: The offering for sale by a developer or his agent of a
condominium unit occupied or rented for any purpose by any person before
commencement of a condominium project, which includes such unit.
DECLARATION: The declaration referred to in the Illinois condominium property
act.
DEVELOPER: Any person who submits property legally or equitably owned by him to
the provisions of the Illinois condominium property act including any successor
to such developer's interest in the property; or any person who offers units
legally or equitably owned by him for sale in the ordinary course of his
business. "Developer" does not include a corporation owning and operating a
cooperative apartment building, unless more than six (6) units are to be sold
to persons other than current stockholders of the corporation.
OFFERING: Any inducement, solicitation, advertisement, publication or
announcement by a developer to any person or the general public to encourage a
person to purchase a condominium unit in a condominium or prospective
condominium.
PERSON: A natural individual, corporation, partnership, trustee or other legal
entity capable of holding title to real property.
PROPERTY REPORT: The property report required in accordance with section
6-6-4 of this chapter.
PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER: A person who visits the condominium project site for the
purpose of inspection for possible purchase, or who requests the property
report. (Ord. 78-33-84)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
6-6-2: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any existing building for which a
declaration of condominium and plat of survey have not been filed with the
county recorder or the county registrar of titles by the effective date hereof.
Any party claiming that a building is not subject to the provisions of this
chapter shall submit proof to the village manager that the declaration and plat
were recorded prior to the effective date hereof. Said submittal shall include,
but not be limited to, copies of said declaration and survey including the date
stamp and document identification number provided by the county recorder or
registrar of titles. (Ord. 78-33-84)
6-6-3: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The quality control department shall administer this chapter and may
adopt rules and regulations for the effective administration hereof. The
quality control department is not responsible for the validity and completeness
of any property reports required by this chapter, as originated by the
developer.
   B.   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the developer who intends to
offer a building for sale as a condominium to notify the department, in
writing, of his intention to do so.
   C.   Whenever a residential building is converted to condominium ownership,
a new certificate of occupancy shall be required for each condominium unit and
for the common areas. Upon receipt of the developer's notice of intent to
convert a residential building or part thereof to condominium ownership, the
department of community development and growth management shall schedule a code
compliance inspection of the condominium units and common elements. The
compliance inspection shall identify any code deficiencies with respect to this
title that are related to either the condominium units or the common elements.
The developer shall promptly correct all such deficiencies. No certificate of
occupancy shall be issued by the department of community development and growth
management for any condominium unit until all code deficiencies have been
corrected. (Ord. 78-33-84; 1985 Code; Ord. 08-04-15)
6-6-4: PROPERTY REPORT:
   A.   Contents: A property report shall contain the following:
      1.   A statement indicating the name and address of:
         a.   The developer and legal and beneficial owner, if different, of
the land and improvements, including all general partners of a partnership or
principal executive officers and directors of a corporation.
         b.   Interim and permanent mortgages or construction lenders secured
by a blanket encumbrance.
         c.   The principal sales and management agents, attorneys,
accountants, architects, engineers and contractors for the project.
      2.   A description of all property and improvements including the
following:
         a.   Map, plat or architect's drawing showing location and dimensions
of the condominium project and the land it occupies, together with all
improvements including recreational facilities, proposed construction and
present and planned location of streets and driveways.
         b.   The share of ownership of each unit in each common element. The
identity of owners of such condominium unit, including the percentage of former
renters who have purchased or contracted to purchase a condominium unit when
the property is a conversion, if known. If such units are owned in trust or by
nominees, the beneficiaries or principal shall be named, if known.
         c.   A description of all of the common elements in the project
including a description of all existing and proposed recreational facilities
and other such facilities within the project. Limited common elements, if any,
and their ownership shall also be included.
         d.   A description of the nature and ownership of all improvements
occupying the same zoning lot, but which are not part of the condominium.
         e.   Location, nature and ownership of easements, streets and
driveways on or contiguous to the condominium.
         f.   The identification of drawings, architectural plans, shop
drawings for mechanical systems and equipment, and other related documents
which accurately describe the completed buildings and recreational facilities,
mechanical systems and equipment, and access points for the proper maintenance
of all such facilities and equipment to the extent these documents exist, where
these documents are located and the time at which they may be inspected.
         g.   Projected initiation and completion dates for proposed
construction, renovation and conversion.
         h.   A description of limitations upon uses permitted in individual
condominium units as contained in the declaration and bylaws of the condominium
association and applicable zoning provisions. Such description shall state
whether, or under what conditions, the condominium units may be rented together
by the unit owner.
         i.   Statement as to whether a purchaser may purchase more than one
unit and under what circumstances or conditions.
         j.   Statement of legal ownership, listing all restrictions, notices,
lis pendens and encumbrances of record.
      3.   Method and timing of transfer of control of the condominium to the
board of managers, and the nature and extent of any interest retained by the
developer thereafter.
      4.   A statement disclosing the existence of penalties if the
construction, renovation, conversion or completion date is not met and the
additional costs to be imposed upon unit owners if such date is not met.
      5.   The nature and extent of any protection of a purchaser if the
developer defaults on blanket encumbrances.
      6.   A statement of any litigation which would affect the condominium or
the developer's ability to convey clear title.
      7.   A statement of the current taxes and estimated changes in the tax
assessment of the condominium units which buyers may encounter during the first
two (2) years.
      8.   Copies of the forms of sales documents applicable to the individual
units, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Basic purchase contract form being used by the developer.
         b.   Deeds of conveyance.
         c.   Deed of trust, mortgage and promissory note, if any.
      9.   Statement of sales prices, terms, options, conditions of sale of
each unsold unit, including estimated closing and settlement costs and transfer
taxes.
      10.   Statement of estimated monthly payments for each unit to be
itemized as to taxes, utilities, operating costs, assessments, parking,
recreational facilities and all other payments in the first year after the
projected date of assumption of control by the board of managers.
      11.   If financed by the developer, the proposed financing of each unit,
including percent of sales price required for down payment, duration of the
loan, interest rate, service charge, appraisal charge, closing charges and
total monthly payment.
      12.   A description of all appliances and personal property included with
each unit.
      13.   Documents:
         a.   Copies of the following documents:
            (1)   The declaration and plat. However, prior to the recordation
of the declaration, a preliminary declaration and plat may be supplied,
provided it is accompanied by a statement in type size and style equal to at
least ten (10) point bold face type, as follows:
"THE DESCRIPTION OF UNITS AND PERCENTAGE OF OWNERSHIP INTEREST IN COMMON
ELEMENTS HEREIN IS PRELIMINARY AND MAY BE CHANGED IN MATERIAL RESPECTS UPON THE
RECORDING OF THE DECLARATION OF PLAT."
            (2)   The articles of incorporation of charter of the condominium
association, if any.
         b.   The description of the following documents:
            (1)   Any leases of real or personal property in the condominium
expiring later than two (2) years after the first unit is offered for sale.
            (2)   Any management contract, employment contract, insurance
policy or other contract affecting the use, maintenance or access to all or
part of the condominium expiring later than two (2) years after the first unit
is offered for sale.
            (3)   The coverage and amounts of insurance policies applicable to
the condominium maintained by or on behalf of the developer.
      14.   A statement of management and expected management costs of the
condominium including:
         a.   Name of management agent, if any, and the services the agent will
perform.
         b.   Length of term of any management contract, its costs and the
circumstances, if any, under which the charges may be increased.
         c.   The conditions, if any, under which the contract may be cancelled
or terminated.
         d.   A statement stating the relationship between the developer and
the management firm and their respective corporate officers and controlling
interests, if any.
      15.   An estimated operating budget, including the basis on which each
item included in such operating budget was formulated, for the condominium,
projected for a period of one year from the expected date that control of the
condominium project passes to the board of managers. The operating budget shall
include at least the following:
         a.   Operating Costs:
            Utilities;
            Heating fuels;
            Janitorial services;
            Trash and garbage disposal;
            Landscaping and building maintenance;
            Security;
            Maintenance and operation of recreational and other facilities;
            Building insurance;
            Elevator maintenance;
            Sidewalk and street maintenance;
            Other operating costs.
         b.   Management Costs:
            Accounting and bookkeeping services;
            Legal services;
            Management fees.
         c.   Reserve Costs:
            Reserve for improvements;
            Reserve for unexpected repair work;
            Reserve for replacement and upkeep of common area and facilities;
            Reserve for taxes and special assessments.
            If no reserve is provided for any one or more of the costs listed
herein, the following statement must be inserted in the property report in a
type size and style equal to at least ten (10) point bold type:
"THE DEVELOPER HAS NOT PROVIDED A RESERVE FOR CERTAIN POSSIBLE FUTURE COSTS OF
THE CONDOMINIUM IN HIS BUDGET. ACCORDINGLY, IT MAY BE NECESSARY TO PROVIDE FOR
A SPECIAL ASSESSMENT TO ALL CONDOMINIUM UNIT OWNERS TO PAY FOR SUCH COSTS
SHOULD THEY OCCUR."
      16.   Provisions, if any, the developer had made to cover the proposed
operations and maintenance budget in the event an insufficient number of units
are sold.
      17.   If a conversion, a report from a qualified licensed engineer or
registered architect describing the condition and expected useful life of the
roof, foundation, external and supporting walls, mechanical, electrical,
plumbing, heating and structural elements, and all other common facilities,
together with an estimate of repair and replacement costs for those items
needing repair or replacement at current market prices. This report shall
include the approximate dates of installation of the facilities listed above
and the dates of the major repairs to such facilities. There shall be attached
to such report:
         a.   A statement of the developer that no notice of violations of the
building provisions of this Village Code pertaining to the condominium building
have been received by the owner or his predecessors for ten (10) years
preceding the property report and its latest amendment; or
         b.   A list of all notices of violations of the building provisions of
this Village Code received, together with a detailed statement of all
violations referred to in such notices, for the prior ten (10) years.
      18.   A statement of whether, and under what circumstances, the unit
owners are required to be a member of, support or participate financially in
recreational facilities, such as but not limited to health clubs, exercise
rooms, swimming pools, party rooms and golf putting greens. If any such
facility is not part of the common elements, the following warning shall be
included in capital letters, in a type size and style equal to at least ten
(10) point bold type:
"THE (HERE NAME FACILITIES) ARE NOT INCLUDED IN THE COMMON ELEMENTS. THESE
FACILITIES ARE AVAILABLE TO UNIT OWNER FOR (HERE DESCRIBE MONTHLY CHARGE AND
INITIATION FEE). UNIT OWNERS ARE/ARE NOT (AS APPLICABLE) REQUIRED TO
PARTICIPATE FINANCIALLY."
      19.   A description of the location, ownership and availability to unit
owners and the general public of accessory off-street parking associated with
the condominium. If all such parking facilities are not (a) part of the common
elements or (b) divided as individual parking space among and designated as
being part of the units, the following statement shall be included in a type
and size and equal to at least ten (10) point bold type:
"PARKING FACILITIES ASSOCIATED WITH THIS BUILDING ARE NOT OWNED BY THE UNIT
OWNERS AND MAY BE SUBJECT TO BEING DENIED TO OR TAKEN FROM UNIT OWNERS."
      20.   A statement if there are any restrictions upon the free sale,
transfer, conveyance, encumbrance or leasing of a unit as follows:
"THE SALE, LEASE OR TRANSFER OF YOUR UNIT IS RESTRICTED OR CONTROLLED."
Immediately following this statement, there shall appear a reference to the
documents, articles, paragraphs and pages in the property report where the
restriction, limitation or control on the sale, lease or transfer of units is
set forth or described in detail.
      21.   A statement on the first page, the following warning in capital
letters in a type size and style equal to at least ten (10) point bold type:
VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN LAW SPECIFICALLY PROHIBITS ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE EFFECT
THAT THE VILLAGE HAS PASSED UPON THE MERITS OF OR GIVEN APPROVAL TO MAKE OR
CAUSE TO BE MADE TO ANY PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER ANY REPRESENTATIONS WHICH DIFFER
FROM THE STATEMENTS IN THIS PROPERTY REPORT. ORAL REPRESENTATIONS CANNOT BE
RELIED UPON AS CORRECTLY STATING THE REPRESENTATIONS OF THE DEVELOPER AND ARE
NOT BINDING ON THE DEVELOPER. REFER TO THE PROPERTY REPORT FOR BINDING
REPRESENTATIONS.
      22.   The signature of the executive officer of the developer and
statement affirming that the report and any supplements, modifications and
amendments are true, full, complete and correct.
   B.   Amendments To Report: The developer shall amend the property report
from time to time when any material changes occur in any matter contained in
such reports. Amendments shall be made as soon as practicable after such change
occurs, or the developer has reason to know of such change. Amendments shall be
attached to reports subsequently distributed to prospective purchasers and
shall be immediately distributed to all persons who have purchased or agreed to
purchase condominium units.
No later than thirty (30) days prior to the recording of the declaration and
plat, the developer shall give notice of any material changes in said
declaration and plat, as described in the property report, to each person who
has executed a contract to purchase a unit. (Ord. 78-33-84)
6-6-5: REQUIREMENTS OF DEVELOPER:
   A.   Notice Of Intent To Convert:
      1.   No less than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to recording the
declaration submitting the property to the provisions of the Illinois
Condominium Property Act, a developer shall give notice of such intent to
record to all persons who are tenants of the building on the property on the
date notice is given, and to the Village Clerk.
      2.   Any person who was a tenant as of the date of the notice of intent
and whose tenancy expires other than for cause prior to the expiration of one
hundred eighty (180) days from the date on which a copy of the notice of intent
was received by the tenant shall have the right to an additional tenancy on the
same terms and conditions and for the same rental until the expiration of such
one hundred eighty (180) day period by the giving of written notice thereof to
the developer within thirty (30) days of the date upon which a copy of the
notice of intent was received by the tenant.
      3.   During the period of one hundred eighty (180) days following his
receipt of the notice of intent, any person who was both a tenant on the date
of the notice of intent and a current tenant shall have the right of first
refusal, if at all, by giving notice thereof to the developer prior to the
expiration of thirty (30) days from the giving of notice by the developer to
the tenant that a contract to purchase the unit has been executed. Each
contract for sale of a unit shall conspicuously disclose the existence of, and
shall be subject to, such right of first refusal. The statement in the deed
conveying the unit to a purchaser to the effect that the tenant of the unit
either waived or failed to exercise the right of first refusal or had no right
of first refusal with respect to the unit shall extinguish any legal or
equitable right or interest to the possession or acquisition of the unit which
the tenant may have or claim with respect to the unit arising out of the right
of first refusal provided for in this subsection. The foregoing provisions
shall not affect any claim which the tenant may have against the developer for
damages arising out of the right of first refusal provided herein, nor shall it
affect the penalties provided in Section
6-6-9 of this Chapter.
      4.   No occupied unit shall be shown to any purchaser or prospective
purchaser for thirty (30) days after notice of intent to record, as provided
herein, is given.
      5.   Any notice provided for in this subsection shall be given by a
written notice delivered in person or mailed, certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, to the party who is being given the notice.
   B.   Property Report Submitted To Tenants:
      1.   No later than thirty (30) days after mailing or delivering the
notice of intent as provided in subsection A of this Section, a developer of a
condominium of more than six (6) units must have a property report available
for mailing and distribution and immediately serve a copy of the property
report upon all persons who are tenants of the building to be converted. Such
service may be by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal delivery, provided a signed receipt is obtained from each tenant so
served. Said property report shall also be available at said time for
examination by the Department. A developer may make a charge, not to exceed two
dollars ($2.00), for each report mailed or distributed pursuant to this
Chapter.
      2.   Not later than the offering for sale of the first unit, a developer
of a condominium of more than six (6) units must:
         a.   Make said property report available for distribution to each
prospective purchaser.
         b.   Make available for inspection by prospective purchasers, copies
of all documents that were filed or required to be filed in connection with the
condominium project with the Recorder of Deeds of Cook County.
         c.   Keep a receipt signed by each purchaser acknowledging that the
person entering a contract to purchase has received and has had an opportunity
to review the property report. Such receipts are to be kept on file in the
possession of the developer for a period of three (3) years from the date of
signature of the purchaser and such receipts are subject to the inspection of
the Department at any reasonable time.
      3.   The board of managers shall keep a copy of the latest property
report for seven (7) years following the date of the property report's initial
distribution. Upon reasonable notice, the property report shall be made
available for inspection by any prospective purchaser of a unit from a unit
owner. (Ords. 78-33-84, 79-36-81, 81-24-43, 88-5-19, 97-20-78)
6-6-6: EXAMINATION OF RECORDS:
No person shall fail to allow unit owners to inspect the financial books and
records of the condominium association within three (3) business days of the
time written request for examination of the records is received. (Ord. 78-33-
84)
6-6-7: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Required Use Of Recreational Facilities: The developer may not require
nor (except as established by the board of managers following assumption of
control by unit purchasers) may the condominium bylaws require that a unit
owner be a member of or participate in recreational or similar facilities which
are not owned in fee by the unit owners or by an association in which they are
members individually or through the board of managers.
   B.   Misleading Inducements To Buy: No person shall intentionally mislead a
prospective purchaser with any act, inducement to buy or advertisement by:
      1.   Employing any statement or pictorial representation which is false
or misleading; or
      2.   Omitting any material statement or pictorial representation.
   C.   Discrimination: No person shall be denied the right to purchase or
lease a unit because of race, religion, sex, sexual preference, marital status
or national origin. (Ord. 78-33-84)
6-6-8: PROVISIONS ARE ADDITIONAL, COMPLIANCE BY INJUNCTION:
The rights, obligations and remedies set forth in this Chapter shall be
cumulative and in addition to any other available at law or inequity. The
Quality Control Department or any prospective purchaser, purchaser or owner of
a unit may seek compliance by injunction of any provision of this Chapter;
provided, however, that only the Building Department may enforce the provisions
of Section
6-6-9 of this Chapter. (Ord. 78-33-84; 1985 Code)
6-6-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   General: Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
Section
6-6-5 of this Chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Each failure to comply with these provisions with respect to
each person shall be considered a separate offense. A separate and distinct
offense shall be regarded as committed each day on which such person shall
continue or permit any such violation.
   B.   Revocation Of License: In addition to such fines and penalties,
violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be cause for revocation of any
license issued to such violator or offending party by the Village. Nothing
herein shall be construed to preclude the revocation of any license for
violation of any other provisions of this Code. See Section
3-1-6 of this Code for license revocation hearing provisions. (Ord. 78-33-84;
1985 Code; Ord. 99-5-11)
CHAPTER 7
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Mobile Home Park License And Permit Provisions
6-7-2-1: License To Operate
6-7-2-2: Permit To Construct
6-7-2-3: Issuance Or Denial Of License Or Permit
6-7-2-4: Display Of Licenses And Permits
6-7-3: Location
6-7-4: Park Plan
6-7-5: Service Buildings And Accommodations
6-7-6: Accessory Structures And Improvements
6-7-7: Utilities
6-7-8: Community Dining Facilities
6-7-9: Duties Of Park Attendant And Licensee
6-7-10: Investigations By School Authorities
6-7-11: Park Office; Rules And Regulations Posted
6-7-12: Records Kept
6-7-13: Parking Restrictions
6-7-14: Applicability Of Other Regulations
6-7-15: Pine Tree Mobile Home Court Rules And Regulations
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this Chapter, unless a different meaning appears from the
context, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings herein
ascribed to them:
DEPENDENT UNIT: A mobile home which does not have bathroom or shower and toilet
facilities.
MOBILE HOME OR TRAILER COACH: Any coach, cabin, trailer, house car or other
vehicle or structure intended for or capable of human dwelling or sleeping
purposes, mounted upon wheels or supports, and/or capable of being moved by its
own power or transported by another vehicle; provided, that any structure
resting in whole or on permanent foundation, with wheels, tongue and hitch
permanently removed, shall not be construed as a trailer coach or mobile home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any park, court, camp, site, plot, parcel or tract of land
designed, maintained, intended or used for the purpose of supplying a location
or accommodations for more than two (2) mobile homes and shall include all
buildings used or intended for use as part of the equipment thereof whether or
not a charge is made for the use of the park and its facilities. "Mobile home
park" shall not include automobile or trailer or mobile home sales lots on
which unoccupied mobile homes are parked for purposes of inspection and sale.
NONDEPENDENT UNIT: A mobile home that has bath or shower and toilet facilities.
SPACE: A plot of ground in a mobile home park of not less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet of space designed for the location for only one automobile
and/or one mobile home.
UNIT: A mobile home unit. (1951 Code 12-11-1; Ords. 72, 72-14-18)
6-7-2: MOBILE HOME PARK LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS:
6-7-2-1: LICENSE TO OPERATE:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to establish,
operate or maintain, or permit to be established, operated or maintained upon
any property owned, leased or controlled by him, a mobile home park within the
limits of the Village without having first secured a license for each such park
in accordance with the provisions of Section
3-1-1 of this Code.
   B.   Application for License:
      1.   The application for a mobile home park license or a renewal thereof
shall be made on forms furnished by the Village and shall include the
following:
         a.   The name and address of the owner in fee of the tract (if the fee
is vested in some person other than the applicant);
         b.   A duly certified statement by that person that the applicant is
authorized by him to construct or maintain the mobile home park and make the
application;
         c.   The names and addresses of the partners if it is a partnership,
the names and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and
the present or last address of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application; and
         d.   Such legal description of the premises upon which the mobile home
park is or will be located as will readily identify and definitely locate the
premises.
      2.   The application shall be accompanied by two (2) copies of the park
plan showing the following, either existing or as proposed:
         a.   The extent and area used for park purposes;
         b.   Roadways and driveways;
         c.   Location of units for mobile homes;
         d.   The proposed and existing facilities in the mobile home park for
water supply, sewage, garbage and waste disposal, fire protection and for a
sanitary community building which will include a description of toilets,
urinals, sinks, washbasins, slop sinks, showers, drains and laundry facilities,
the proposed alterations therein and the maintenance thereof.
         e.   Method and plan of sewage disposal;
         f.   Method and plan of garbage removal;
         g.   Plan for water supply;
         h.   Plan for electrical lighting of units and land upon which the
mobile home park is to be located;
         i.   If the existing or proposed camp is designed to serve
nondependent mobile home units, such plans shall clearly set forth the location
of all sewer and water pipes and connections;
         j.   The calendar months of the year in which applicant will operate
said mobile home park;
         k.   The plot plans of the trailer coach park, building plans and
specifications for existing buildings and facilities, and the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in
existing facilities, all as may be required by the rules and regulations of the
Village under the provisions of this Chapter.
         l.   A statement of the fire fighting facilities, public or private,
which are available to the mobile home park.
      3.   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application shall be attached thereto. Where a permit to
construct as well as an original license to operate is sought by the applicant,
request therefor shall be made in the same application. Each application shall
be accompanied by the appropriate fee 1 .
   C.   Inspections: No mobile home park license shall be issued until the
Chief of Police, Health and Sanitation Officer, Chief of the Fire Department,
and Director of Office of Quality Control, or their authorized agents, inspect
or cause to be inspected each application and the premises to determine whether
the applicant and the premises on which mobile homes will be located comply
with the regulations, ordinances and laws applicable thereto. No license shall
be removed without a reinspection of the premises. For the purpose of making
inspections and securing enforcement, such officials or their authorized agents
shall have the right and are hereby empowered to enter on any premises on which
a mobile home is located, or about to be located, and to inspect the same and
all accommodations connected therewith, at any reasonable time.
   D.   Transfer of Licenses: All licenses issued under this Chapter shall be
nontransferable without the written consent of the Village; provided, however,
that the Village may not withhold such consent where the provisions of this
Chapter have been met.
   E.   Suspension or Revocation of License, Hearing:
      1.   Notice of Suspension or Revocation: Any license granted hereunder
shall be subject to revocation or suspension by the Village; however, the
Village Clerk shall first serve or cause to be served upon the licensee a
written notice in which shall be specified the way or ways in which such
licensee has failed to comply with the ordinance or any rules or regulations
pertaining thereto. Said notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate
such nuisance, insanitary or objectionable condition, specified in such notice
within five (5) days or within a longer period of time as may be allowed by the
Village. If the licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of said
notice, within the time specified or such extended period of time, the Village
may revoke or suspend such license.
      2.   Public Hearing: A public hearing shall be conducted by the Village,
if written request therefor is made by the licensee, within five (5) days after
receipt of the Village notice. Any person refused a permit to construct or
alter a mobile home park or a license, or whose license is suspended or
revoked, shall have the right to a hearing before the Village Board. A written
notice of a request for such a hearing shall be served upon the Village within
thirty (30) days of such refusal of a permit to construct or alter, or refusal
of a license or suspension or revocation thereof. Written notice of such
decision shall be given, by mail, to the park operator or the applicant, as the
case may be, within five (5) days of such refusal, suspension or revocation.
The hearing shall be conducted by the Village Board under such rules and
regulations and procedures as it shall provide. (1951 Code 12-11-3, 12-11-4;
Ords. 72, 72-14-18, 81-12-19; 1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1-7 of this Code.
6-7-2-2: PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT:
   A.   Permits Required, Application:
      1.   No person shall construct a mobile home park without first obtaining
a permit to do so from the Director of Office of Quality Control.
      2.   No change in any sanitary facilities, methods of water supply,
sewage, drainage, garbage or waste disposal, and no change in the plot plan
shall be made without first making a written application to the Village and
receiving a written permit therefrom. Such application shall be made in the way
and manner hereinbefore set forth; such change or changes shall comply with
such safety and sanitary code, codes, rules and regulations as are applicable
thereto. No application fee shall be required to accompany an application for a
permit to alter a mobile home park where such alteration involves only a
reduction in the number of trailer spaces to a number less than such trailer
coach park is currently licensed for. Such change or changes shall comply with
such safety and sanitary code, building codes, rules and regulations as are
applicable thereto. Such permit does not relieve the applicant from securing
building permits or from complying with any zoning or other ordinance
applicable thereto.
   B.   Inspections: If a permit to construct a mobile home park has been
issued, the applicant, upon completion thereof, shall notify the Village. The
Village shall then inspect the mobile home coach park and if completed in
accordance with the accepted application, the Village shall issue a license.
(1951 Code 12-11-3; Ords. 72, 72-14-18, 81-12-19)
6-7-2-3: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Upon receipt for an application for a permit to construct a mobile home park or
an application for a license to operate and maintain the same, the Village
Clerk shall, if the park is or the proposed park will be, in conformity with
this Chapter and the rules and regulations adopted by the Village pursuant
hereto, issue a permit to construct or a license, as the case may be. If the
application for a permit to construct or a license is declined, the Village
Clerk shall give the reasons therefor in writing to the applicant; and if the
objections can be corrected, the applicant may amend his application and
resubmit it for approval. (1951 Code 12-11-3; Ords. 72, 72-14-18)
6-7-2-4: DISPLAY OF LICENSES AND PERMITS:
All permits to construct, all licenses to operate and all permits to make
alterations in trailer parks shall be prominently displayed in the office of
the mobile home park. (1951 Code 12-11-3; Ords. 72, 72-14-18)
6-7-3: LOCATION:
   A.   No mobile home or mobile home park shall be located in any fire
district.
   B.   No occupied mobile home within the limits of the Village shall be
located between the recognized setback line for the zoning district in which
such mobile home is located and the street or highway, and in no circumstances
shall the minimum setback be less than five feet (5') from the side lot lines
of the mobile home park, nor less than ten feet (10') from any building or
other mobile home or from the boundary line of the premises on which located,
nor less than ten feet (10') from a public street or alley. (1951 Code 12-11-5;
Ords. 72, 72-14-18)
6-7-4: PARK PLAN:
   A.   Surface Drainage: Every mobile home or mobile home park shall be
located on a well- drained area and the premises shall be properly graded so as
to prevent the accumulation of storm or other waters. No mobile home or mobile
home park shall be located in any area that is situated so that drainage from
any barnyard, outdoor toilet or other source of filth can be deposited in its
location.
   B.   Mobile Home Site Requirements: Each trailer coach shall be allotted a
site of not less than one thousand (1,000) square feet, shall be clearly
defined and shall have a width of not less than twenty feet (20'). Each
individual trailer site shall abut or face on a driveway or roadway of not less
than twenty four feet (24') in width, which driveway or roadway shall have
unobstructed access to a public highway or alley. All streets and driveways in
every trailer coach park must be graveled or paved, and must be maintained in a
passable and reasonably dust-proof condition at all times, and all streets and
driveways in every trailer coach park established after January 1, 1954 shall
have a minimum width of twenty feet (20'). All streets and driveways in parks
constructed after August 21, 1967 shall have a minimum of twenty four feet
(24'). Such streets, driveways or roadways shall be maintained in good
condition, having storm sewers or natural drainage, and be well illuminated
during the hours of darkness.
   C.   Location of Dependent Units: The park shall be so laid out that no
dependent unit shall be located farther than two hundred feet (200') from the
toilets and service buildings provided for herein, and walkways to such
buildings shall be graveled or paved and well lighted at night. (1951 Code 12-
11-6; Ords. 72, 69-5-10, 72-14-18)
6-7-5: SERVICE BUILDINGS AND ACCOMMODATIONS:
   A.   Every mobile home park designed to serve dependent units shall have
erected thereon suitable buildings for housing toilets, lavatories, showers,
slop sinks and laundry facilities as required by this Chapter; such buildings
to be known as service buildings. Service buildings shall be located not more
than two hundred feet (200') from any dependent unit space, nor closer than
fifteen feet (15') from any mobile home space. Such buildings shall be of
permanent construction and adequately lighted, screened and ventilated.
   B.   There shall be provided separate toilet rooms for each sex. Water flush
toilets shall be required and shall be provided for each sex in the ratio of
one toilet for each eight (8) dependent units or fraction thereof and shall
have separate compartments, properly separated from other water closets, and
shall be not less than three feet (3') wide and shall be enclosed with proper
partition. Every male toilet room shall also contain one urinal for each
sixteen (16) dependent units but in no case shall any male toilet be without
one urinal. Toilet rooms shall contain lavatories with hot and cold water in
the ratio of one lavatory to every two (2) or less water closets.
   C.   Separate bathing facilities for each sex shall be provided with one
shower enclosed in a compartment at least four feet (4') for each eight (8)
dependent units or fraction thereof. Each shower compartment shall be
supplemented by an individual dressing compartment of at least twelve (12)
square feet. The floor of such compartment shall be waterproof and elevated
three inches (3") above the floor of the shower stall or a six inch (6")
curbing provided, separating shower compartment from dressing room. Mats, grids
and walkways made of wood, cloth or other absorbent materials will not be
approved for use in bath sections of community service buildings.
   D.   Laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio of one double tray
unit and one conventional type washing machine, or one automatic washing
machine, with electric outlet, for each eight (8) units. Sufficient drying
facilities shall be available. No laundry tray shall be located in a toilet
room or bathroom.
   E.   Slop sinks for disposal of liquid wastes originating at the units shall
be provided in a separate room of the service building in the ratio of one slop
sink for each sixteen (16) dependent units.
   F.   The above accommodations shall be based on the total park capacity
according to accepted plans.
   G.   Floors of toilets, showers and the laundry shall be of concrete tile or
similar material impervious to water and easily cleaned. Concrete curbings
extending at least six inches (6") above the floor shall be provided and the
floor sloped to adequate drains. (1951 Code 12-11-8; Ords. 72, 75, 69-5-10, 72-
14-18)
6-7-6: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Temporary porches, canvas-roofed canopies and skirts shall be permitted
for trailer coaches, and auxiliary rooms may also be authorized by regulation
of the Village if constructed of fire-resistant materials of such
specifications as shall be required by such regulations.
   B.   No mobile home shall be improved with a permanent foundation or lean-to
other than screens and awnings which shall be of fire- resistant materials.
(1951 Code 12-11-6; 1969 Code 12-21; Ords. 72, 72-14-18)
6-7-7: UTILITIES:
   A.   Water Supply:
      1.   An adequate supply of pure water, furnished through a pipe
distribution system connected directly with the public water main with supply
faucets located not more than two hundred feet (200') from any dependent mobile
home, shall be furnished for drinking and domestic purposes in all parks. Each
independent mobile home site shall have a cold water tap at least four inches
(4") aboveground.
      2.   Individual water service connections provided for direct use of an
independent unit shall be so constructed that they will not be damaged by the
parking of such units. Such systems shall be adequate to provide twenty (20)
pounds' pressure per square inch and capable of furnishing a minimum of one
hundred twenty five (125) gallons per day per space.
      3.   No common drinking vessels shall be permitted, nor shall any
drinking water faucets be placed in any toilet room.
      4.   Every mobile home park serving dependent units shall provide an
abundant supply of hot water at all reasonable hours for bathing, washing and
laundry facilities.
   B.   Sewer Regulations:
      1.   All liquid waste from showers, toilets, laundries, faucets,
lavatories, etc., shall be discharged into a sewer system extended from and
connected with the public sewer system. No water or waste shall be allowed to
fall on the ground from a mobile home.
      2.   Every space designed to serve a nondependent unit shall be provided
with sewer connections which shall comply with all applicable plumbing
regulations. The sewer connection shall be provided with suitable fittings so
that watertight connections can be made. Such connections shall be so
constructed so that they can be closed when not connected and trapped in such a
manner as to be maintained in an odor-free condition.
      3.   All sanitary facilities in any unit which are not connected with a
public sewer system by approved pipe connections shall be sealed and their use
is hereby declared unlawful.
      4.   Each faucet shall be equipped with facilities for drainage of waste
and excess water.
   C.   Garbage Disposal:
      1.   A sufficient number of adequate flyproof and watertight containers
shall be supplied for the storage of garbage except where an adequate
incinerator is provided.
      2.   Garbage containers shall be emptied at least every three (3) days
and shall not be filled to overflowing or allowed to become foul smelling or a
breeding place for flies. Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner
which creates neither a nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved
by the Department.
      3.   Adequate insect and rodent-control measures shall be employed. All
buildings shall be fly and rodentproof and rodent harborages shall not be
permitted to exist in the park.
   D.   Electrical Facilities:
      1.   Electrical outlets for each individual trailer site shall be
provided and the installation shall be in compliance with all State and local
electrical codes and ordinances 1 . No connected electric extension cord shall
lie on the ground or be suspended less than seven feet (7') from the ground
above sidewalks or pathways.
      2.   Every mobile home space shall be furnished with an electric service
outlet. Such outlet shall be equipped with an externally operated switch or
fuse of not less than thirty (30) amperes' capacity, and a heavy duty outlet
receptacle. Electrical outlets shall be weatherproof and no power lines shall
be less than fifteen feet (15') above ground. The entire electrical system
shall meet the minimum requirements of the State and local electrical codes.
(1951 Code 12-11-7, 12-11-9; 1969 Code 12-19; Ords. 72, 75, 72-14-18)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 6, Chapter 2 of this Municipal Code.
6-7-8: COMMUNITY DINING FACILITIES:
Any mobile home park providing community dining facilities shall comply with
State and local regulations applicable to eating establishments 1 . (1951 Code
12-11-9; Ords. 72, 72-14-18)
 
Notes
1 2. S.H.A. ch. 56 /2, and Title 8, Chapter 2 of this Municipal Code.
6-7-9: DUTIES OF PARK ATTENDANT AND LICENSEE:
Every trailer coach park shall be in charge of a responsible attendant or
caretaker at all times, whose duty it shall be to maintain the park, its
facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition and be
answerable, with the licensee, for any violation of the provisions of this
Chapter.
It is hereby made the duty of the attendant or person in charge together with
the licensee, to:
   A.   Keep a register of all guests, to be open at all times to inspection by
State, Federal, Municipal or school district officers which shall show for all
guests:
      1.   Names and addresses.
      2.   Number of children of school age.
      3.   State of legal residence.
      4.   Dates of entrance and departure.
      5.   License numbers of all mobile homes and towing or other vehicle and
the state issuing such licenses.
      6.   Purpose of stay in park.
      7.   Place of last location and length of stay.
      8.   Place of employment of each occupant.
The register shall be signed by each adult occupant and said record shall be
kept available for inspection for six (6) years. Any person furnishing
misinformation for purposes of registration shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and punishable under the general statutes or ordinances for such
offense. The registration records shall be neatly and securely maintained, and
no registration records shall be destroyed until six (6) years have elapsed
following the date of registration. The register shall be available at all
times for inspection by law enforcement officers.
   B.   Maintain the park in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition at all
times and maintain a temperature of at least sixty eight degrees (68) F. in all
service buildings during the period from October 1 to May 1.
   C.   Insure that the provisions of this Chapter are complied with and
enforced and report promptly to the proper authorities any violations of this
Chapter or any other violations of law which may come to his attention.
   D.   Report to the Health and Sanitation Officer all cases of persons or
animals affected or suspected of being affected with any communicable disease.
   E.   Prohibit the lighting of open fires on the premises.
   F.   Assume full responsibility for maintaining in good repair and condition
all sanitary and safety appliances on said park, and promptly bring such action
as is necessary to prosecute or eject from said park any person or persons who
wilfully or maliciously damage such appliances, or any person or persons who
fail to comply with the regulations of this Chapter.
   G.   It shall be the duty of each licensee on February 1 and September 1 of
each year, to file with the school board or boards of the school district or
districts wherein the mobile home park is located, a report giving the names
and ages of all children of school age living in said park. (1951 Code 12-11-
10; 1969 Code 12-33; Ords. 72, 72-14-18, 83-17-42; 1985 Code)
6-7-10: INVESTIGATIONS BY SCHOOL AUTHORITIES:
The governing body of the school district or governing bodies of the school
districts in which a mobile home park is located, by and through its officers,
attendance officers and proper employees, may inspect and visit a mobile home
park for the purposes of examining the register with reference to children of
school age for the purpose of enforcing attendance of school children housed in
the park. When a mobile home park is located in two (2) or more school
districts, the school district boards of said districts, acting jointly, shall
be and are hereby authorized to proceed under the provisions of this Section.
(1951 Code 12-11-11; Ords. 72, 72-14-18)
6-7-11: PARK OFFICE, RULES AND REGULATIONS POSTED:
In every mobile home park there shall be located the office of the attendant or
person in charge of said park. A copy of the park license and of this Chapter
shall be posted therein and the park register shall at all times be kept in
said office. Health rules and regulations of the Village and any change or
changes made from time to time shall be posted by the management in a
protected, conspicuous place within the trailer coach park. (1951 Code 12-11-
10; Ords 72, 72-14-18)
6-7-12: RECORDS KEPT:
The Director of Office of Quality Control and Clerk shall keep a record of all
mobile home parks, which records shall show the names and addresses of all
mobile home parks, names and addresses of the licensees, number of trailer
coach lots in each park, source of water supply, system of sewage and garbage
disposal, and any other information required by this Chapter or deemed
essential by the Village. (1951 Code 12-11-3; Ords. 72, 72-14-18)
6-7-13: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful, except as provided in this Chapter, for any
person to park any mobile home on any street, alley, highway or other public
place, or on any tract of land owned by any person, within the Village.
   B.   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any street,
alley or highway for not longer than one hour subject to any other and further
prohibitions, regulations, or limitations imposed by the traffic and parking
regulations or ordinances for that street, alley or highway.
   C.   No person shall park or occupy any mobile home on any premises which is
situated outside an approved mobile home park. The parking of only one
unoccupied mobile home in an accessory private garage building or in a rear
yard is permitted providing no living quarters shall be maintained, or any
business practiced, in said mobile home while such mobile home is so parked or
stored.
   D.   No mobile home unit shall be parked in a park outside of a designated
space. (1951 Code 12-11-2, 12-11-6; Ords. 72, 72-14-18, 81-12-19)
6-7-14: APPLICABILITY OF OTHER REGULATIONS:
All plumbing, electrical, building and other work on or at any park required to
be licensed under this Chapter shall be in accordance with the ordinances of
the Village and the regulations of the State Health Department. Licenses and
permits granted under this Chapter grant no right to erect or repair any
structure, to do any plumbing work or to do any electrical work. (1951 Code 12-
11-12; Ords. 72, 72-14-18)
6-7-15: PINE TREE MOBILE HOME COURT RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations shall apply exclusively to the licensees of
the Pine Tree Mobile Home Court owned and operated by the Village:
   I.   Your monthly rent is due on the first day of each month. You may pay
your rent at the Village Hall, Monday through Friday, eight thirty o'clock (8:
30) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. A late charge of ten dollars ($10.00) will
be imposed without notice to you if you do not pay your monthly rent within
five (5) days after the rent is due. The late charge may be waived for good
cause by the Village.
   II.   Electricity and gas are metered and billed directly to you by the
service companies.
   III.   Metal storage units are permitted if you obtain the written approval
of the Village. You must obtain the approval before you erect any metal unit.
You must keep your metal storage unit in good condition at all times.
   IV.   No fences of any type are permitted.
   V.   You may store anything under your mobile home unless there is aluminum,
steel or fiberglass skirting placed around your entire trailer. The skirting
must match your mobile home. Storage under you mobile home is limited to items
of fire-resistant materials.
   VI.   Your visitors must park their vehicles outside the mobile home park.
Vehicles of visitors who violate this rule shall be ticketed and towed away.
   VII.   No outdoor clothes lines or clothes drying is permitted. You may not
hang wash on the railings or stairways leading into your mobile home.
   VIII.   Use of the laundry room is for you and the other licensees only. The
following laundry room rules must be adhered to:
      A.   Hours are eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.,
seven (7) days per week.
      B.   Rules for proper use of the machines are posted on the laundry room
wall over the machines. You must adhere to these rules.
      C.   The washers fill automatically. You may not ever add additional
water to the washers.
      D.   The laundry room must be kept clean at all times. You must remove
all items which you have brought in with you.
      E.   The Village has installed a lock on the laundry room door for your
protection. You must use a key to gain entry to the laundry room and must use
the key in order to leave the laundry room. You must keep the door closed at
all times.
      F.   Laundry room keys are issued by the office of the Director of Public
Works of the Village.
      G.   The Director of Public Works will issue laundry room keys only to
licensees registered with his office.
      H.   Only registered licensees are permitted in the laundry room. Any
person in the laundry room who is not a registered licensee is subject to
immediate removal.
      I.   If you allow persons who are not registered licensees to use your
key to the laundry room, you will be required to return your key to the
Director of Public Works and will forfeit your privilege of using the laundry
room.
For your own safety, do not open the laundry room door for anyone trying to get
in without a key.
   IX.   You must regulate the noise level of your radio and television set
during the day so as to avoid alarming or disturbing other licensees. The noise
level of your radio and television set must be kept low after ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. each day. Outdoor television antennas are permitted on your mobile
home if you have obtained the prior approval of the Village. Other antennas and
CB units are not allowed.
   X.   You are responsible for any destruction or vandalism by your children
or your visitors. Children and visitors are not permitted to alarm or disturb
other licensees or their visitors.
   XI.   Bicycle riding is not permitted within the trailer park.
   XII.   The Village is not responsible for your lost or stolen articles. The
Village will prosecute theft to the full extent of the law.
   XIII.   Gambling, public intoxication, drinking in public and public
indecency, use of drugs and possession are not permitted. Violators of this
rule will be prosecuted by the Village to the full extent of the law.
   XIV.   No mechanical repairing or overhauling of motor-operated vehicles or
other motor- operated apparatus is permitted in the trailer park.
   XV.   You may not plant hedges, landscaping or greenery without the prior
written approval of the Village. You are responsible for the maintenance and
upkeep of your yard and must keep your yard neat and clean at all times. Your
grass is to be cut as frequently as necessary to maintain a neat and clean
appearance of your lawn. You may not have a vegetable garden. You may not plant
vegetation or greenery in front of your trailer.
The Village will impose a service charge for its time and equipment if it must
clean up or cut the grass on your lot.
   XVI.   You may not sub-lease your mobile home or mobile home lot.
   XVII.   If you wish to sell your mobile home while it is located on the
trailer park lot, you must first obtain written permission from the Village.
The Village is not required to rent a trailer park lot to anyone who purchases
your mobile home. Therefore, before a purchaser of your mobile home takes
possession of the trailer park lot, he or she must have an interview with the
park manager and must be approved by the Village. In addition, the new
purchaser must sign a lease agreement with the Village and must pay the
required deposit.
   XVIII.    No animals or fowl shall be kept in the trailer park.
   XIX.   No boat, travel trailer or truck is permitted to be kept in the
mobile home park. You may park any automobile in the mobile home park, provided
that you park on the driveway or in a designated parking area, and not on the
street or on any lawn.
Inoperative, unlicensed or unused vehicles must be removed from the trailer
park. The Village shall impose a charge for towing and storing of any vehicle
which it removes from the trailer park as being in violation of this rule.
   XX.   The hot water in the laundry room is for use in the laundry room only;
no hot water may be taken from the laundry room.
   XXI.   The speed limit for automobiles in the trailer park is ten (10) miles
per hour.
   XXII.   No commercial activity of any kind whatsoever shall be permitted or
conducted on or from any trailer without prior written consent from the
Village.
   XXIII.   You must register with the park manager all your guests whose stay
exceeds seventy two (72) hours (3 days). You are responsible for the conduct of
your guests.
   XXIV.   You may not install an air conditioner on your mobile home without
prior written approval of the Village. In order to obtain approval of the
Village, you must submit a written note from your neighbor on the side of your
mobile home on which the air conditioner is to be installed, stating that your
neighbor has no objection to the noise factor of the air conditioning unit.
   XXV.   Persons who are not registered licensees of the mobile home court are
not permitted in the mail room. Persons found in the mail room in violation of
this rule shall be immediately removed from the mail room and are subject to
arrest for trespassing.
   XXVI.   These rules are intended for the benefit of all licensees and
therefore these rules will be strictly enforced. If you do not comply with any
of these rules, you are subject to eviction from the mobile home court in
accordance with the law.
If you observe anyone violating any of these rules, you are requested to notify
the Village immediately so that proper action may be taken. (Ords. 78-24-61,
82-23-82)
CHAPTER 8
SIGNS AND ADVERTISING STRUCTURES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Purpose
6-8-2: Definitions
6-8-3: Sign Permits
6-8-4: Construction Specifications
6-8-5: Annual Inspections, Fees
6-8-6: General Provisions
6-8-7: Removal Of Unsafe And Unlawful Signs
6-8-8: Signs Obstructing Public Ways And Property
6-8-9: Nonconforming Signs
6-8-10: Prohibited Signs
6-8-11:    Obsolete And Abandoned Signs
6-8-12:    Outdoor Illuminated Signs
6-8-13:    Ground Signs
6-8-14:    Pole Signs
6-8-15:    Wall Signs
6-8-16:    Roof Signs
6-8-17:    Projecting Signs
6-8-18:    Marquees
6-8-19:    Awnings And Canopies
6-8-20:    Transportation Shelters And Advertising Signs
6-8-21:    Temporary Signs
6-8-22:    Mobile Signs
6-8-23:    Exemptions From Provisions
6-8-24:    Violations And Penalties
6-8-25:    Automobile "For Sale" Signs
6-8-26:    Village Districts
6-8-27:    Public Clocks
6-8-28:    Animated Signs
6-8-29:    Window Signs
6-8-30:    Portable Sidewalk Signs
6-8-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To preserve and promote the public health, safety, and welfare, through
reasonable, consistent, and non-discriminatory sign standards.
   B.   To preserve property values within the Village by regulating and
controlling the design, location, construction, and maintenance of all signs.
   C.   To advance the economy and the business and industry of the Village by
promoting the reasonable, orderly and effective display of all signs, and
encouraging better communication between signs and the public.
   D.   To enhance the physical appearance of site identification to be in
harmony with the visual character of the associated street corridor and to be
an integral party of the aesthetic of the site and architectural style of
associated buildings the Village by preserving the scenic and natural beauty of
the area.
   E.   To protect the general public, pedestrians, and motorists within the
Village by assuring the design, location, construction, and maintenance of
signs presents safe navigation through discernable information.
   F.   To ensure that signs are constructed, installed and maintained in a
safe and satisfactory manner, except to the extent expressly preempted by state
or federal law, and protect the public from unsafe signs.
   G.   To confirm that signs may cause harm to the public by creating
obstructions, providing distractions to motorist, displacing alternative land
uses, decreasing property values and aesthetics, and endangering the safety of
person and property.
   H.   To protect the public investment in streets and highways by reducing
sign or advertising distractions that may increase traffic accidents.
   I.   To establish the Village's substantial and compelling interest in
regulating signs in a manner as to reduce the effects and impacts signs have on
the public health, safety, and welfare.
   J.   To protect physical and mental well-being of the general public by
recognizing and encouraging a sense of aesthetic appreciation for the visual
environment. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
terms and phrases shall have the meanings herein ascribed to them:
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign remaining on a site absent of a display permitted within
this Chapter for six (6) months or longer.
ADVERTISING SIGN: A commercial sign intended to aid, directly or indirectly, in
the sale, use, or promotion of a product, commodity, service, sales event,
activity, entertainment, or real or personal property.
ANIMATED SIGN: A sign which includes action, motion, or color changes, or the
optical
illusion of action, motion or color changes, including signs using electronic
ink, signs set in motion by movement of the atmosphere, or made up of a series
of sections that turn, including any type of screen using animated or scrolling
displays using light bulbs, neon light, light emitting diodes (LEDs) or LCD
screen(s) or any other type of video display.
APPROVED COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL: Wood, or materials not more combustible than
wood, and approved plastics.
APPROVED PLASTICS: Only those slow burning plastics such as cellulose acetate
or methyl methacrylate or other plastics of no greater combustibility as now
approved by the Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., for sign use (UL 48).
AUTOMATIC CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign which contains electronically displayed
stationary numerical or alphabetical characters which are regularly changed.
AUTOMOBILE DEALERSHIP SIGN: A sign which specifically serves to inform of the
presence of an automobile dealership.
AUTOMOBILE "FOR SALE" SIGNS: Any sign temporarily affixed to an automobile or
other motorized vehicle that directs attention to the fact that a certain
automobile or motorized vehicle is being offered for sale, excluding signs used
for such purposes by commercial car dealers or vendors within the Village. An
automobile "for sale" sign must contain a working telephone number by which the
seller can be contacted. Automobile "for sale" signs shall not be considered
"advertising signs" or "mobile signs" as defined in this chapter.
AWNING: Any secondary covering made of cloth, canvas woven acrylic, cotton or
polyester yarn, vinyl laminated to polyester fabric or metal with aluminum,
iron or steel, or wood frame attached to a building and projecting from a
building, when the same is so erected as to permit its being raised to a
position fiat against the building when not in use or in a permanent extended
rigid position.
AWNING SIGN: A fabric (or similar material) awning that is printed, stamped,
stitched or otherwise applied onto a protective awning, canopy, or other
fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance, window,
or outdoor service area.
BANNERS: A sign of lightweight flexible fabric or similar material intended to
hang either with or without frames, mounted to a pole (other than a light pole
sign), building or other structure at one or more edges. National flags, state
or municipal flags, or the official flag of any institution or business shall
not be considered banners.
BILLBOARD: Any advertising sign or other commercial sign which directs
attention to a business, commodity, service, entertainment, or attraction sold,
offered or existing elsewhere that upon the same lot where such sign is
displayed.
BULLETIN BOARD SIGN: A changeable sign for displayed news and dates which
pertain to the business or organization whose land the sign sits on.
BUSINESS ENTRANCE IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign displayed near the entrance of a
business displaying the business's name, operating hours, and contact
information.
BUSINESS SIGN: A sign immediately in front of or on a business's building,
which makes the business's presence known to people passing on foot and in
vehicles.
CANOPY: Any structure, other than an awning, made of cloth or metal with metal
frames attached to a building, projecting from a building and carried by a
frame supported by the ground or sidewalk.
CANOPY SIGN: A freestanding canopy which is decorated in such a way to
represent a business on the same tract of property not more than one hundred
feet (100') away.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: An automatic or changeable copy sign that changeable
text, characters, and/or illustrations that allows the sign's display to be
amended, updated or otherwise modified. Electronic message boards are a type of
changeable copy sign.
CIVIC EVENT SIGN: A temporary sign placed with the intention of drawing people
to a public event. The public event must be accessible to everyone.
CONFORMING SIGN: A sign which is legal and conforms to all standards set forth
by this code.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: Temporary sign placed on a construction site which shows the
name of the construction project, the contractors, the architects, engineers
and/or developers, and the approximate date of completion.
DOUBLE FACED SIGN: A sign which shows the same information to viewers standing
on opposite sides of the sign while in line with the primary street or other
thoroughfare the sign sits along.
ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend or affix, and includes
the painting of wall signs.
EXTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign lit by light bulbs, whose primary
illumination is obtained through the use of bulbs which are not placed inside
the sign structure.
FACING OR SURFACE: The surface of the sign upon, against or through which the
message is displayed or illustrated on the sign.
FAMILY ANNOUNCEMENT SIGN: A sign which commemorates an event in the household
where the sign is displayed.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign which is standing free of any structural support from
other structures or buildings.
FOOT-CANDLE. A unit of emitted light on a surface stated in lumens per square
foot and measurable with an illuminance meter (light meter).
GRAND OPENING SIGN: A sign which commemorates the initial opening period of any
event.
GROUND SIGN: A freestanding sign mounted to the ground with one or more poles
and not a direct part of the building and may be completely or principally
supported by one or more posts or other support structure, which is not
attached to the principal building on the property.
GOVERNMENTAL SIGN: A sign built and intended for the purpose of fulfilling a
government mandated purpose or requirement.
HOLIDAY DECORATIONS: Signs which are erected for the purpose of commemorating a
widely recognized holiday.
HORIZONTAL PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign which is greater in width than in height.
ICONIC SIGN: A sign that has been designated by the Historic Preservation
Commission and/or Architecture Design and Review Commission as providing and
promoting the preservation of the Village's unique character, history, and
identity.
IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign immediately in front of or on a business's
building, which makes the business's presence known to people passing on foot
and in vehicles.
ILLEGAL SIGN: A sign constructed without the issuance of any permit.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign which uses electric lighting to stay visible during
the nighttime hours.
INCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL: Any material which will not ignite at or below a
temperature of one thousand two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (1,200°F) and will
not continue to burn or glow at that temperature except as provided by
subsection 6-8-11D2 of this chapter.
INFLATABLE SIGNS: Any inflatable object, that is either: a) tethered or
otherwise suspended on top of a structure; or b) fastened to the ground.
INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign whose primary illumination is obtained
through the use of lights which are placed within the structure itself.
JOINT IDENTIFICATION SIGN: An identification sign which only identifies a
planned development, and does not identify or make references to the individual
uses and tenants of units within the development.
LIGHT POLE SIGN: A banner mounted on street lighting poles with two (2) edges
affixed to a mounting bracket. Two (2) are the most that are allowable on any
light pole. Must contain suitably sized holes to facilitate the passage of
heavy wind without damaging the banner.
MANUAL CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign which contains manually displayed
stationary numerical or alphabetical characters which are regularly changed.
MARQUEE: Any permanent wall or roof-like construction projecting from the wall
of a building above an entrance.
MARQUEE LIGHTING: Lighting which uses light bulbs, neon light, or light
emitting diodes (LEDs) to create stationary lighting or synthetic movement on a
sign or to attract attention to a sign. The use of such lighting shall be
restricted to wall signs and marquee signs.
MARQUEE SIGN: Any painted, printed or illuminated sign attached to a marquee.
MEMORIAL SIGN: A sign which commemorates an event or series of events in the
past which draw the viewer to reflect upon those events.
MOBILE SIGN: Any electrical or nonelectrical sign designed for use and display
out of doors which is mounted on a trailer with a locking device, or which is
otherwise capable of being easily transported or moved from place to place.
MONUMENT SIGN: A sign, other than a pole sign, with steel supports, placed upon
or supported by the ground independently of any other structure. A sign that is
typically mounted on a masonry base. As distinguished from a ground sign, the
sign base of any monument sign must be a minimum of seventy five percent (75%)
or more of the width of the sign face that is to be situated upon the base. A
sign base less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the width of the sign face is
considered a ground sign.
MOVING SIGN: A sign with a moving mechanical element, whose primary purpose is
to attract attention to the sign.
NAMEPLATE SIGN: A sign used to display the personal name of a person operating
a business above or near said business's main entrance.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign which conformed to all the necessary and relevant
codes when it was built, but presently considered noncompliant or in conflict
due to changes to the code. Also includes signs which have fallen into a state
of disrepair.
OBSOLETE SIGN: A sign which remains unchanged while the physical unit it
represents has either undergone a change in ownership or is vacant.
OFF SITE IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign which directs attention to a product or
service sold, offered, created, furnished, or conducted at a location not
directly associated with the property or site at which the sign is located.
ON SITE INFORMATIONAL SIGN: A sign placed on an establishment's property for
the purpose of directing patrons around the property to points of relevance,
such as the entrance and exit.
OTHER ADVERTISING STRUCTURE: Any "marquee", "canopy" or "awning" as further
defined herein.
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN: A sign providing display space for general commercial
advertising not related to the premises on site at which the sign is located;
commonly referred to as "billboards".
PARAPET SIGN: A sign mounted horizontally against a building's parapet, above
roof level.
PENNANTS: Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether or not it
contains a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string, usually
in series, designed to move in the wind.
PERMANENT SIGN: A sign which is intended to stay intact and relevant for the
foreseeable future, without extensive modification from its as built form.
POLE SIGN: Any sign supported by upright members such as steel columns or poles
with a sign attached thereto, which is a freestanding structure with separate
foundations set into the ground and which is permanent.
POLITICAL SIGNS: A sign which advertises a local, county, state or national
candidate or proposition upon which a ballot is to be cast or vote taken in an
election.
PORTABLE SIDEWALK SIGN: A freestanding sign designed to be easily moved from
place to place and often containing a changeable copy sign element.
PRIVATE SALE SIGN: A temporary sign placed with the intention of drawing
customers to a "garage sale", "yard sale", or similar event.
PRIVATE WARNING SIGN: A warning sign on private property, notifying its viewer
of conditions and/or criteria set by the property's owner.
PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign which is attached to a building or other structure
and extends beyond the line of the said building or structure or beyond the
surface of that portion of the building or structure to which it is attached.
All projecting signs shall be illuminated signs, as defined by this chapter.
PUBLIC CLOCK: A timekeeping device, either digital or with a face and hands,
easily viewable to the public and either placed alongside an identification
sign or decorated to serve as an identification sign as well as a clock.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A temporary sign placed on property notifying its viewers
that said property is for sale. Includes any relevant contact information.
ROOF SIGN: A sign located on or attached to roof framing.
SCOREBOARD SIGN: A freestanding sign intended to display scores for athletic
events, and also to serve as an outlet for advertisers who sponsor those
athletic events.
SIGN: Includes every sign, billboard, ground sign, wall sign, roof sign,
illuminated sign, light pole sign, projecting sign, temporary sign, mobile
sign, pylon or pole sign, marquee, awning and canopy, and includes any
announcement, declaration demonstration, display illustration or insignia
showing words, figures or pictures.
Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof, which is used to
advertise, identify, display, direct or attract attention by any means
including words, printed text, letters figures, designs, symbols, pictures,
fixtures, colors, motion, illumination or projected images for the purpose of
delivering a message.
STACKED SIGN: A sign which is physically placed on top of or next to another
sign of similar dimensions and type.
STRUCTURAL TRIM: The molding, battens, cappings, nailing strips, latticing and
platforms which are attached to the sign structure.
SUSPENDED SIGN: An overhead sign hanging over a retail unit lined corridor, and
notifying its viewers where certain units are a short distance before they are
visible immediately to the viewer's right or left.
TEMPORARY BANNER: A banner mounted with the intention of serving for only a
short (finite) period of time, and constructed of nonpermanent materials.
TEMPORARY SIGNS: A sign constructed and intended for a temporary period of
display and is neither permanently installed in the ground nor permanently
affixed to a building, structure, wall or perimeter fencing.
THEATER SIGN: A sign mounted to the front of a cinema or performing arts venue,
with the name of said venue displayed along with a changeable listing of
current shows or performances.
TRANSPORTATION SHELTER ADVERTISEMENTS: Privately owned permanent structures
erected on or adjoining principal rights of way on arterial streets, for the
purpose of providing shelter from the weather for public mass transportation
passengers and containing up to six (6) panels of backlighted advertising.
VEHICLE SIGN: A sign placed on the side of a vehicle for the purpose of
identifying goods or services provided by the vehicle's owner or driver or an
entity which has contracted with the vehicle's owners.
VERTICAL PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign which is greater in height than in width.
WALL SIGN: A sign attached against a wall of a building or other structure,
with the exposed face of the sign parallel to the plane of the wall, and
attached to the exterior front, rear or wall side of any building or structure.
WINDOW SIGN: A sign or display installed, painted upon or placed into, or onto
the interior of a window. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-3: SIGN PERMITS:
   A.   Permits Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, repair,
alter, relocate or maintain within the Village any "sign" or "other advertising
structure" or "awning" or "canopy" for commercial or business use, as defined
in this chapter, without first obtaining a sign permit from the Department of
Community Development and Growth Management and making payment of the fee
required by subsection D of this section. All illuminated signs shall, in
addition, be subject to the provisions of the electrical code, and the permit
fees required thereunder.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for sign permits shall be
submitted to the Department of Community Development and Growth Management and
Architectural Review and Preservation Commission. Applications for sign permits
shall be made upon blanks provided by the Department of Community Development
and Growth Management or have attached thereto the following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which the
sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected.
      3.   Position of the sign or other advertising structure in relation to
adjacent buildings, structures or property lines.
      4.   Two (2) blueprints or ink drawings of the plans, specifications, and
method of construction, and attachment to the building or in the ground.
      5.   Copy of stress sheets and calculations showing the structure is
designed for dead load and wind pressure in any direction in the amount
required by this chapter and all other laws and ordinances of the Village.
      6.   Name of person erecting structure.
      7.   Written consent of the owner including name, address and telephone
number of the owner of the building, structure or land to which or on which the
structure is to be erected.
      8.   An electrical permit required and issued for said sign.
      9.   Insurance policy or bond as required by subsection E of this
section.
      10.   Data and information covering sign or signs, of uniqueness of
structure or innovation of materials and design.
      11.   If external or internal illumination, a detailed lighting plan,
including a photometric plan is required. All lighting plans shall include
manufacturer specifications pertaining to light intensity.
   C.   The Approval Of Plans And Specifications: The application for a permit
for erection of a sign or other advertising structure in which electrical
wiring and connections are to be used shall be submitted to the chief
electrical inspector. Said inspector shall examine the plans and specifications
respecting all wiring and connections to determine if the same complies with
the electrical code of the Village. This action of the chief electrical
inspector shall be taken prior to submission of the application to the
Department of Community Development and Growth Management.
   D.   Fees: The following permit fees for such sign or other advertising
structure regulated by this chapter shall be as follows:
 
All signs requiring a permit other than   $ 1.00
those listed below, per sq. ft.
Canopy/awning:                             
   Without signage                     50.00
   With signage                        $1.00 per sq. ft. minimum of $50.00
Marquee, per 10 sq. ft. or fraction       $10.00
thereof of displaying surface
Mobile signs, per 10 sq. ft. or fraction  10.00
thereof of displaying surface
Temporary signs, per 25 sq. ft. or        35.00
fraction thereof
 
When a fee is assessed, in no event shall the minimum fee be less than fifty
dollars ($50.00).
   E.   Bond Or Insurance Required: Every applicant for a permit referred to
herein shall, before the permit is granted, file with the Department of
Community Development and Growth Management a continuing bond in the penal sum
of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), executed by the applicant and a surety
company to be approved by the Village attorney and conditioned for the faithful
performance of the provisions of this chapter and all amendments hereto, and of
all laws and ordinances relating to signs and other advertising structures, and
which shall indemnify and save harmless the Village from any and all damages,
judgments, costs or expenses which the Village may incur or suffer by reason of
granting of said permit. Any person lawfully maintaining a sign or other
advertising structure regulated by this chapter at the time of the enactment
hereof shall, within thirty (30) days after said enactment, comply with all the
provisions set forth in this subsection. A public liability insurance policy
issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state
conforming to this subsection may be permitted in lieu of a bond, provided that
a noncancelable clause or notification of nonrenewal clause is contained
therein.
   F.   Issuance Of Permit, Expiration: It shall be    the duty of the
Department of Community Development and Growth Management, upon filing of an
application for a sign permit, to examine such plans and specifications and
other data and the premises upon which it is proposed to erect the sign or
other advertising structure and upon compliance with all the requirements of
this chapter and all other laws and ordinances of the Village, the sign permit
shall be issued within fourteen (14) working days. If the work authorized under
a sign permit has not been completed within six (6) months after date of
issuance, the said permit shall become null and void and all fees shall be
forfeited.
   G.   Revocation Of Permit: The Department of Community Development and
Growth Management is hereby authorized and empowered to revoke any permit
issued upon failure of the holder thereof to comply with any provision of this
chapter. See section
3-1-6 of this code for permit revocation hearing provisions.
6-8-4: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Steel Supports: All outdoor advertising signs shall be constructed on
steel supports when the total area of said sign exceeds one hundred (100)
square feet.
   B.   Wind Pressure Requirements:
      1.   For the purpose of determining wind pressures, all signs shall be
classified as either open or solid. Signs in which the projected area exposed
to wind consists of seventy percent (70%) or more of the gross area as
determined by the overall dimensions shall be classed as solid signs; those in
which the projected exposed area is derived from open letters, figures, strips
and structural framing members, the aggregate total area of which is less than
seventy percent (70%) of the gross area so determined, shall be classed as open
signs.
      2.   All signs shall be designed and constructed to withstand wind
pressures applied to the projected exposed area, allowing for wind in any
direction, in accordance with the following table:
 
Height From     Wind Pressure Pounds Per Square Foot
Ground To Top   Solid Signs Open Signs
Of Sign In Feet
   Less than 17          23
   30 - 49   22          31
   50 - 99   28          39
   100 - 499 33          46
 
   C.   Wire Members: No cable or wire uplifts or guys are permitted.
   D.   Smooth Surface: All signs or other advertising structures which are
located in the property lines, or within five feet (5') thereof, shall have a
smooth surface and no nails, tacks or wires shall be permitted to protrude
therefrom, except electrical reflectors and devices which may extend over the
top and in front of the advertising structures. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-5: ANNUAL INSPECTIONS, FEES:
The division of building, planning and zoning shall inspect annually, or at
such other times which it deems necessary, each sign or other advertising
structure regulated by this chapter for the purpose of ascertaining whether the
same is structurally safe, in need of repair, or verify compliance with
lighting requirements. The sign permittee shall pay to the Village a sum of one
dollar fifty cents ($1.50) multiplied by the number of square feet of area for
each unit so inspected; provided, however, that in no event shall the
inspection fee be less than thirty dollars ($30.00) nor more than fifty dollars
($50.00) per location or business license. No charge shall be made until sign
is actually inspected. No inspection fee other than the permit fee as required
in subsection
6-8-3D of this chapter will be charged during the calendar year in which the
sign or other advertising structure is erected. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-6: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Information Required On Signs: Every sign or other advertising
structure hereafter erected shall have painted in a conspicuous place thereon,
in letters not less than one inch (1") in height, the month and year of
erection, the name and address of the erector, the permit number and the
voltage of any electrical apparatus used in the connection therewith. Upon
annual inspection, inspection tag shall be affixed.
   B.   Maintenance Required: The owner of any sign as defined and regulated by
this chapter shall be required to have properly painted at least twice every
five (5) years, all parts and supports of the said sign, unless the same are
galvanized or otherwise treated to prevent rust.
   C.   Illumination:
      1.   Gooseneck reflectors and lights shall be permitted, on a permanent
basis, on freestanding signs, ground signs, parapet   signs, roof signs and
wall signs; provided, however, the reflectors shall be provided with proper
lenses concentrating the illumination upon the area of the sign so as to
prevent the glare upon the street or adjacent property.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any sign which
extends over public property which is wholly or partially illuminated by
floodlights or spotlights.
      3.   Indoor illuminated signs. It shall be prohibited to place marquee
lighting on any indoor illuminated sign or building structure, including but
not limited to windows, doors, parapet, exterior walls, support beams, roofs
and balconies. The use of such lighting shall be restricted to wall signs, and
marquee signs.
   D.   Maintenance: Any type of sign shall be considered in violation of this
subsection if there is a visible lack of aesthetic maintenance, this includes,
but is not limited to: peeling of paint, cracks or broken portion of signs,
rust, burned out lights (if illuminated) and information which is no longer
legible due to weathering.
   E.   Number And Placement Of Signs:
      1.   There shall not be more than one advertising sign for each six
hundred feet (600') of parallel street frontage, except back to back sign
structures.
      2.   There shall be no "V" shape arrangements of back to back signs.
      3.   More than one advertising sign may be erected within six hundred
feet (600') of another sign structure if the face of the signs show in opposite
directions. No such structure shall contain more than one advertising sign per
each facing.
      4.   Advertising signs shall not be arranged so as to block the view of
signs which advertise the business on the adjacent property.
      5.   Notwithstanding any other provision in this code in the C-l, C-2 and
M-l zoning districts there shall be no more than two (2) ground signs on any
corner lot and one ground sign on any interior lot except that double faced
signs as permitted or allowed shall be deemed to be one sign.
   F.   Notice And Fines: The Village may provide written notice of a violation
of this section to the sign owner, permittee, or owner of the property upon
which the sign sits each of whom shall be jointly and severally liable for any
such violations. Upon receiving a written notice of a violation of this
section, the sign owner, permittee, or the owner of property upon which the
sign sits shall have twenty one (21) days to cure the violation. If the
violation is not cured within twenty one (21) days from receipt of the notice
of violation then the owner and/or person or entity listed on the sign permit
application shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day the
violation exists after the twenty one (21) day period to cure the violation
shall be considered a separate violation.
   G.   Illumination Standards: Any sign that is illuminated, shall only be
illuminated by steady, stationary, shielded, and shaded light sources directly
solely at the sign, or internal to it so that the light intensity or brightness
does not create either a nuisance to adjacent property or a traffic hazard for
motorist or pedestrians. In no instance shall the lighting intensity of any
sign whether resulting from internal   illumination or external illumination,
exceeding the following:
      1.   Illuminated signs shall produce no more than XXX-foot candles of
illumination, four feet (4’) from the sign.
      2.   The source of light for external illuminated signs shall be located,
shielded, and directed in a manner that the light source is not visible from a
public street or private residence.
Any pre-existing Illuminated signs shall be classified as "Non-Conforming,"
pursuant to the Section
6-8-9 of this Chapter. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-7: REMOVAL OF UNSAFE AND UNLAWFUL SIGNS:
If the division of building, planning and zoning or other inspector as
designated by the Department of Community Development and Growth Management
shall find that any sign or other advertising structure regulated herein is
unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public, or has been constructed or
erected or is being maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter,
it shall give written notice to the permittee thereof. If the permittee fails
to remove or alter the structure so as to comply with the standards herein set
forth within ten (10) days after such notice, such a sign or other advertising
structure may be removed or altered to comply by the division of building,
planning and zoning at the expense of the permittee or owner of the property
upon which it is located. The Department of Community Development and Growth
Management shall refuse to issue a permit to any permittee or owner who refuses
to pay costs so assessed and division of building, planning and zoning may
cause any sign or other advertising structure which is in immediate peril to
persons or property to be removed summarily and without notice. In the event
that a fire has caused immediate peril to persons or property, then the fire
chief, or in his absence, the senior fire officer present, may order the
removal of the sign. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-8: SIGNS OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY:
   A.   Ingress And Egress: No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained
so as to prevent free ingress to or egress from any door, window, fire escape
or fire hydrant. No sign of any kind shall be attached to a standpipe, fire
escape or fire hydrant or light pole.
   B.   Utility Wires: Signs shall be installed so that there shall be a
minimum clearance of three feet (3') between the sign and any overhead utility
wires. Where the wires pass over the sign, the wires shall be protected as
recommended by the utility company owning or maintaining the wires.
   C.   Traffic Obstructions: No sign or other advertising structure as
regulated by this chapter shall be erected at the intersection of any streets
in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision; or at any location
where, by reason of the position, shape or color, it may interfere with,
obstruct the view of or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or
device; or which makes use of the words "Stop", "Drive-In", "Danger" or any
other word, phrase, symbol or character, in such manner as to interfere with,
mislead or confuse traffic.
   D.   Projections Into Public Rights Of Way: No permanent or temporary sign
or portion of a sign or its supports shall extend into or over the property
line into the public right of way, except as noted for wall signs and portable
sidewalk signs.
   E.   Nuisance: Any sign placed in the public right of way in violation of
this chapter shall be considered a nuisance and subject to abatement by the
Village. The person or entity responsible for the illegally placed signs may be
responsible for reimbursement to the Village for the Village's costs of removal
or abatement of the illegally placed signs in addition to being charged with
violating the provisions of this chapter and subject to any fines or costs.
(Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-9: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Any sign which was erected in conformance with the sign ordinance in
effect at the time of its erection but which currently fails to meet the size,
location, or other applicable requirements of this chapter, as amended, shall
be considered nonconforming and shall either be removed or brought into
compliance with this chapter's requirements within the period of time
prescribed herein dating from the effective date of this section.
   B.   All nonconforming signs shall be removed or brought into compliance
with this chapter's requirements in accordance with the abatement schedule set
forth below. In order to utilize the abatement schedule, the owner of record,
or his agent, shall make available the market value, as of [March 1, 2019], of
any sign or signs which have been deemed nonconforming by these regulations.
The market value of nonconforming signs shall be based on the original cost,
including cost of installation, of said sign less ten percent (10%) of the
original cost per year for each year said sign has been standing prior to the
effective date of this section.
   C.   The date of the erection of any nonconforming sign shall be established
by the presentation by the owner of record of the sign, or his agent, of a
certified copy of the corresponding sign permit on file with the Department of
Community Development and Growth Management. Any sign erected without the
issuance of a valid sign permit shall be deemed an illegal sign and shall be
removed immediately.
   D.   All required documentation concerning the market value and erection
date of any nonconforming sign shall be presented to the Department of
Community Development and Growth Management within ten (10) days of receipt of
notice of nonconformance. The Department of Community Development and Growth
Management shall determine to its satisfaction the validity of all presented
documentation. Any decision of the Department of Community Development and
Growth Management may be appealed to the Appeals and Review Board.
   E.   Abatement Schedule:
Adjusted Market Value Abatement Date
Adjusted Market Value    Abatement Date
Less than $500.00        June 1, 2019
$500.00 to $999.99       September 1, 2019
$1,000.00 to $1,499.99   December 1, 2019
$1,500.00 to $1,999.99   March 1 ,2020
$2,000.00 to $2,999.99   June 1, 2020
$3,000.00 to $3,999.99   September 1, 2020
$4,000.00 to $4,999.99   December 1, 2020
$5,000.00 to $7,499.99   March 1, 2021
$7,500.00 to $9,999.99   June 1, 2021
$10,000.00 to $12,499.99 September 1, 2021
$12,500.00 to $14,999.99 December 1, 2021
$15,000.00 to $19,999.99 March 1, 2022
$20,000.00 and over      June 1, 2022
 
   F.   Any sign that is in noncompliance with the regulations of this chapter
shall be removed prior to or upon the date designated for removal in the above
abatement schedule. If the owner of, or the person or persons responsible for
the sign fails to remove the nonconforming sign, the owner of the premises upon
which the sign is located shall be responsible for the removal of the sign and
the work shall be done within ninety (90) days following the abatement date.
The procedure for the removal of all nonconforming signs shall be as follows:
      1.   The Department of Community Development and Growth Management after
proper notification, may cause the removal of any nonconforming sign and shall,
at its discretion, charge the costs incurred against any of the following, each
of whom shall be jointly and severally liable for said charges; provided,
however, that any decision or determination of the Department of Community
Development and Growth Management may be appealed to the Appeals and Review
Board:
         a.   The permittee.
         b.   The owner of the sign.
         c.   The owner of the premises on which the sign is located.
         d.   The occupant of the premises on which the sign is located.
      2.   A sign removed by the Village shall be held not less than thirty
(30) days by the Village during which time it may be recovered by the owner
upon payment to the Village for the costs of removal and storage. If not
recovered prior to expiration of the thirty (30) day period, the sign and
supporting structures shall be declared abandoned and title thereto shall vest
in the Village and the cost of removal shall be billed to the owner of the
sign. (Ords. 9-13-41, 9-16-65)
6-8-10: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   Any sign not expressly permitted in this Chapter is prohibited.
   B.   No person or entity shall display any of the following signs within the
Village of Oak Lawn:
      1.   Signs by which color, location, or design resemble or conflict with
traffic control signs or signals.
      2.   Portable signs.
      3.   Commercial signs on a vehicle where said vehicle is parked adjacent
to or near the right-of-way for the purposes of identifying or calling
attention to the business, such as utilizing directional signage, and is not
used for daily operations or during the regular course of business, or is not
licensed, insured, or operational.
      4.   Billboards, off site identification signs, or outdoor advertising
signs not existing at the time of the adoption of this Chapter. Any replacement
or erection of a billboard, off site identification sign, or outdoor
advertising sign shall be prohibited.
      5.   Any signs or attention getting devices, that rotate, revolve, or any
visible moving parts or that gives the appearance of movement, including, but
not limited to, searchlights, spinners, streamers, banners, balloons, barrels,
and other similar devices, or ornamentation designed for purposes of attracting
attention, promoting, or advertising, unless otherwise provided for in this
Chapter.
      6.   Any sign or structure which constitutes a hazard to public health,
safety, or welfare, including dangerous construction or sight obstructions.
      7.   Any sign located in the public right-of-way, unless otherwise
provided for in this Chapter.
      8.   Pole signs. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-11: OBSOLETE AND ABANDONED SIGNS:
Any sign now or hereafter existing which no longer advertises a bona fide
business conducted, or a product sold on the premises where said sign is
located, or any sign that is located on property that has failed to maintain a
valid business license or that becomes vacant and unoccupied for a period of
six (6) months or more will be deemed to have been abandoned or obsolete and
shall be taken down and removed including the sign face, supporting structures,
and structural trim by the owner, agent, permittee, or person having the
beneficial use of the building or structure upon which such sign may be found
within thirty (30) days after written notification from the division of
building, planning and zoning.
Upon failure to comply with such notice within the time specified in such
order, the obsolete or abandoned sign shall be considered a nuisance and the
division of building, planning and zoning is hereby authorized to cause removal
of such sign, and any expense incident thereto shall be paid by the owner of
the building or structure to which such sign is attached. Where an owner fails
to pay such expenses, the Village may file a lien upon the property for the
purposes of collecting all reasonable costs including attorney fees associated
with removal of the sign. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-12: OUTDOOR ILLUMINATED SIGNS:
The provisions of this section shall govern outdoor illuminated signs.
   A.   Box Or Drum:
      1.   Design: The design shall be such as to afford ample strength and
rigidity, to render the box practically weatherproof, to enclose all terminals
and wiring and to provide drainage for each compartment.
      2.   Joints: Where joints occur in a metal box or drum they shall be the
lap type. The lap shall be sufficient for weatherproofing.
      3.   Openings: All openings in the box or drum shall be provided with
covers arranged to lock securely. Unless hinged, the covers shall be secured to
the sign box by a noncorrosive chain.
   B.   Construction Of Faces, Boxes And Backs:
      1.   Approved plastic may be used for sign faces but not as a supporting
means.
      2.   If metal is used in the construction of illuminated sign faces on
box type signs or letters, it shall not be less than no. 24 U.S. gauge.
Metal used in faces of signs other than box type shall be not less than no. 18
U.S. gauge.
Metal shall be used for construction of backs of flat signs and shall be not
less than no. 24 U.S. gauge.
      3.   Box or drum shall be galvanized steel and painted or aluminum or
stainless steel, and drainage should be provided by means of one or more weep
holes, each not larger than one inch (1") or less than three-eighths inch (3/
8") in diameter. There shall be at least two (2) weep holes per compartment but
in no case shall the weep holes be less than four feet (4') on center.
      4.   Metal faces of all illuminated signs more than two feet (2') wide
shall be reinforced on the inside with galvanized iron stiffening channels or
angles and also stayed or braced to the frame or opposite side, such stays or
braces to be so placed that all surface areas of ten (10) square feet are so
reinforced.
   C.   Framework:
      1.   All signs having an area of twelve (12) or more square feet of one
face shall have an approved structural framework of galvanized steel angles or
the equivalent in strength to be not less than specified in the following
table:
FRAMEWORK TABLE
 
Area Of Face      Projecting Signs Single Faced Signs
12 to 20 sq.ft.   1 ½ x 1 ½ x 3/11 ½ x 2 x 3/16
21 to 40 sq.ft.   2 x 2 x 3/16     1 ½ x 2 x 3/16
41 to 70 sq. ft.  2 x 2 x 1/4      2 x 2 x 3/16
Larger than above 2 ½ x 2 ½ x 1/42 x 2 x 1/4
 
      2.   Signs of ten (10) or more linear feet shall have an intermediate
brace for every five (5) linear feet. If frame is made of angle larger than one
and one-half inches by one and one-half inches by one-sixteenth inch (1 ½" x 1
½" x 1/16"), the next size smaller angle may be used as a brace.
      3.   All connections between framework members shall be made with
galvanized machine bolts not less than three-eighths inch (3/8") in diameter or
riveted. Gusset plates or equivalent shall be used in making these connections
where the area of the sign is greater than forty (40) square feet. Metal sign
faces shall be bolted, screwed or riveted to flange of drum with a maximum
distance of eight inches (8") on center. If riveted, suitable tinned or cherry
rivets shall be used. If bolted, brass or galvanized bolts not less than eight
thirty-seconds (8/32) shall be used. If screwed, suitable sheet metal screws
shall be used.
      4.   Signs built in more than one section shall have provision for
connecting sections during the course of erection so that the entire structural
framework will act as a completely fabricated and assembled unit. Each section
shall be so constructed that the interior is accessible for maintenance and
inspection.
   D.   Materials:
      1.   Glass: The glass in a box type sign shall be double strength or
plate glass. The area of any one piece of glass in each face of a sign over
public property shall not exceed eight (8) square feet where double strength
glass is used, nor eighteen (18) square feet where plate glass is used. Each
such piece must be supported by a separate frame.
      2.   Plastics: Approved plastics shall mean only those slow burning
plastics such as cellulose acetate or methyl methacrylate or other plastics of
no greater combustibility as now approved by the Underwriters' Laboratories,
Inc., for sign use (UL 48), and may be used on signs under the following
conditions:
         a.   The material shall not be subjected to a temperature higher than
one hundred forty nine degrees Fahrenheit (149°F) unless such material is
certified by the manufacturer to be special heat resistant material, in which
case the temperature shall not exceed one hundred eighty degrees Fahrenheit
(180°F).
         b.   The sign shall be so constructed that the plastic material will
not come in contact with gas tubes or other source of illumination and shall be
kept at least two inches (2") from the nearest incandescent lamp.
         c.   The wiring and current carrying parts, other than lampholders,
shall be enclosed in metal.
         d.   When plastic material is mounted in a metal frame, proper
provision shall be made for the difference in expansion between the plastic and
the frame. One-sixteenth inch (1/16") total clearance for each twelve inches
(12") or fraction thereof, of the dimension perpendicular to the mounted edge
should be provided in the mounting system.
         e.   When plastic is held in place by flanges, troughs, channels or
clips, these means of attachment shall overlap the plastic by not less than the
following:
 
Width Of Panels Attachment Size
Up to 12"       3/8"
12" to 24"      7/16"
24" to 36"      ½"
36" to 48"      9/16"
Over 48"        3/4"
 
Flanges, troughs or continuous channels shall be made of galvanized sheet
metal, copper or aluminum, not less than twenty (20) gauge U.S. standard in
thickness. Where clips are used for attachment, they shall be made of
noncorrosive spring type material such as phosphor bronze or equivalent, the
thickness of which shall be not less than thirty two one-hundredths inch
(0.32"). Each clip shall not be less than two inches (2") wide and clips,
bolts, screws or rivets shall be spaced on not less than seven inch (7")
centers around the entire periphery of the plastic.
         f.   When bolts, screws or rivets are used to fasten plastic material
to a metal frame, washers shall be placed under the heads of the bolts, screws
or rivets. These washers shall be of metal of a noncorrosive material and have
an outside diameter of not less than six (6) times the diameter of the screw
being used. Washers are to be not less than thirty two hundredths inch (0.32")
in thickness.
         g.   Undue pressure of fastening devices against the plastic material
should be avoided by the use of suitable gasket material, sprint tension or
adequate clearance to allow for expansion.
         h.   Removable plastic panels not fastened to the frame or supported
on all edges shall be supported on their longest dimension by troughs on two
(2) opposite edges. Where such removable panels are made in more than one
section, the adjacent ends shall be pointed together, where the adjacent ends
exceed twelve inches (12") in length, by fastenings directly supported to the
frame of the sign. Such fastenings to be not less than twelve inches (12") on
centers.
         i.   The plastic decorations, faces, panels and letter facings shall
be demonstrated to be of sufficient thickness or so formed or supported as to
withstand twenty five (25) pounds' uniform load per square foot without coming
in contact with gas tubes or any other source of illumination and without
coming within two inches (2") of an incandescent lamp.
         j.   Plastic sheets may not be used as a supporting means for current
carrying parts or sources of illumination.
         k.   Approved solid type or hollow plastic letters or characters may
be used provided they are not used as a raceway.
         l.   The structure of the sign on which the plastic is mounted or
installed shall be noncombustible.
   E.   Catwalks And Ladders:
      1.   Catwalks for maintenance purposes on signs and sign structures shall
be constructed of metal.
      2.   Ladders on sign structures shall be at least fifteen inches (15")
wide. Ladders on signs shall be metal and shall not be less than ten inches
(10") wide.
   F.   Moving Parts: Signs employing the use of moving parts for animated
action as well as public clocks and thermometers shall be so designed that the
driving mechanism and the supporting bearings are securely anchored to the main
steel structure of the sign, and the supports for the movable portions of the
display must be calculated to support its weight plus the maximum wind pressure
to which the movable portions may be subjected. Mechanical motions having an
arc of rotation of less than sixty degrees (60°) may have their electrical
connections made through approved flexible rubber covered leads. Electrical
connections for actions greater than sixty degrees (60°) rotation must be
accomplished through the use of slip rings.
   G.   Method Of Hanging:
      1.   Flat signs shall be anchored below roof line except that additional
support other than chain may be provided over parapet to roof.
      2.   Projecting signs shall be rigidly hung on beams.
      3.   Separate projecting signs so hung as to appear as one sign shall be
rigidly hung on beams.
   H.   Poles Or Posts:
      1.   Poles or posts for the support of signs shall be of metal and shall
conform to accepted standard engineering design and loads; provided sign is not
more than twelve feet (12') above sidewalk, width is not more than half of
length, and hanging irons do not exceed two feet (2').
When pipe is employed, its trade size shall be not smaller than four inches
(4") and when supported by earth shall be firmly set in concrete with means to
prevent the pole from turning.
      2.   A sketch showing the size of the post and details of hanging shall
be submitted with the application for permit signed and stamped by a state of
Illinois registered architect or structural engineer.
      3.   Calculation for the size of the post shall be based on a combined
torsional and bending movement for a wind pressure of thirty (30) pounds per
square foot and a maximum fiber stress of sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds per
square inch.
      4.   Splices in pipe support standards shall be so constructed that they
develop required strength at that point. Splices shall be made at a point not
less than eight feet (8') above the foundation.
   I.   Safety Provisions: Facilities for proper protection of the public must
be provided during the erection or maintenance of all signs.
   J.   Restrictions: It shall be prohibited to place marquee lighting on any
outdoor illuminated sign or building structure, including but not limited to
windows, doors, parapet, exterior walls, support beams, roofs and balconies.
The use of such lighting shall be restricted to wall signs and marquee signs.
   K.   Illumination: [Discuss how to determine LED brightness from ground and
to determine length of frequency for LED]. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-13: GROUND SIGNS:
The provisions of this section shall govern ground signs.
   A.   Materials: All ground signs for which a permit is required under this
chapter, shall have a surface or facing of incombustible material; provided,
however, that combustible trim and structural supports and bracing may be used,
and further that the surface or facing may be of approved combustible material
if the surface is no more than sixty four (64) square feet in area located no
closer to an existing building or property line than ten feet (10').
   B.   Letters And Characters To Be Secured: All letters, figures, characters
or representations in cutout or irregular form, maintained in conjunction with,
attached to, or superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and securely built
or attached to the sign structure and shall comply with all requirements in
subsections
6-8-4D and
6-8-8A and B of this chapter.
   C.   Height And Area: The height of a ground sign shall not exceed twenty
four feet (24') nor shall the area or surface of both sides of the sign exceed
three hundred (300) square feet including the structural trim.
   D.   Location: No part of any ground sign shall be nearer the street than
the property line established by law.
   E.   Maintenance: All ground signs and the property described in the sign
permit shall be maintained by the owner of the sign in a clean, sanitary and
inoffensive condition, and free and clear of all obnoxious substances, rubbish
and weeds. Failure to clean up the premises shall be sufficient cause for
revocation of any permit issued pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-14: POLE SIGNS:
Pole signs shall be hereby prohibited. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-15: WALL SIGNS:
The provisions of this section shall govern wall signs.
   A.   Materials: All wall signs for which a permit is required under this
chapter shall have a surface or facing of incombustible material or approved
nonrusting metal, paint, plastic or vinyl; provided, however, that combustible
decorative trim may be used thereon; and further provided, that combustible
facing not to exceed sixty four (64) square feet may be used if said sign is
nonilluminated or if there is no contact of any kind with the combustible
signs' materials and any or all electrical equipment, conduit, boxes or
attachments. Paint shall only be allowed to be placed upon a wall of brick or
masonry based construction, and must be used in conjunction with a suitable
primer prior to the application of paint and a protective clear coat following
the application of paint.
   B.   Location:
      1.   Placement And Area: No wall sign shall cover wholly or partially any
wall opening nor project beyond the ends or top of the wall to which it is
attached, and any one wall sign shall not exceed an area of two hundred (200)
square feet, unless approved by the Department of Community Development and
Growth Management. The maximum sign area shall be 7.5 percent of the area of
the first two (2) stories of building elevation on which it is placed, or in
the case of a multi-tenant industrial building, each tenant may have a sign not
to exceed 7.5 percent of the area of its leased exterior storefront.
      2.   Projection Above Sidewalk And Setback Line: No wall sign shall be
permitted to extend more than twelve inches (12") beyond the building line, and
shall not be attached to a wall at a height of less than ten feet (10') above
the sidewalk or ground.
   C.   Structural Requirements:
      1.   Supports And Attachments: All wall signs shall be safely and
securely attached to the building wall by means of metal anchors, bolts or
expansion screws of not less than three-eighths inch (3/8") in diameter
imbedded in said wall at least five inches (5"); provided, however, that such
signs may rest in, or be bolted to strong, heavy, metal brackets or saddles set
not over six feet (6') apart, each of which shall be securely fixed to the wall
as hereinbefore provided. In no case shall any wall sign be secured with wire,
strips of wood or nails.
      2.   Wind Pressure Requirements: All wall signs shall conform to the
requirements of subsection 6-8-4B of this chapter.
   D.   Nonconformance Criteria: A wall sign shall be considered nonconforming
due to the following conditions:
      1.   A visible lack of aesthetic maintenance. This includes, but is not
limited to, peeling of paint, rust, burned out lights (if illuminated) and
information which is no longer legible due to weathering.
      2.   Failing structure integrity. This includes, but is not limited to,
broken anchors, sign paneling which is easily moved in windy conditions, and
sign paneling which sags or peels away from the wall.
      3.   Obstruction by nature. This includes, but is not limited to, the
overgrowth of weeds and other plants at the base of the sign to a point where
the bottom of the sign becomes obscured and/or unreadable.
      4.   Illumination. The use of marquee lighting shall be allowed on wall
signs.
      5.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Chapter,
the Illumination regulations of this Chapter shall not apply or be imposed upon
any currently existing wall sign following the passage of an ordinance
approving this Chapter. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-16: ROOF SIGNS:
The provisions of this section shall govern roof signs.
A structure may have a wall sign or a roof sign but not both.
   A.   Materials: Every roof sign, including the upright supports and braces
thereof, shall be constructed entirely of galvanized or stainless steel;
provided, however, that combustible structural trim may be used thereon.
   B.   Height And Area: No roof sign shall have a surface or facing exceeding
fifty (50) square feet per side or one hundred (100) square feet for all sides,
nor have its highest point extended more than seventeen feet (17') above the
roof level, or the allowable height of the zoning district.
   C.   Location: No roof sign shall be placed on the roof of any building or
structure in such manner as to prevent free passage from one part of said roof
to any other part thereof or interfere with openings in said roof and shall
comply with subsections 6-8-8A and B of this chapter.
   D.   Structural Requirements:
      1.   Bracing, Anchorage And Supports: Every roof sign shall be mounted so
that no portion of said roof sign shall project into the public right of way.
The sign shall be physically mounted by means of a steel beam and/or steel pole
with no more than two (2) such beams or poles being utilized and erected in
accordance with standard engineering calculations. A-frames or other multiple
use of angle irons, chains or other lattice work erection systems are hereby
prohibited.
      2.   Wind Pressure Requirements: All roof signs shall conform to the
requirements of subsection
6-8-4B of this chapter. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-17: PROJECTING SIGNS:
The provisions of this section shall govern projecting signs.
   A.   Construction Generally: Every projecting sign shall be sealed by a
structural engineer and shall be constructed of incombustible materials, shall
be illuminated and shall be two (2) faced.
   B.   Materials: The lettering or advertising designs to be illuminated may
be composed of glass or other transparent or semitransparent incombustible
material. Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be safety glass or plate
glass at least one-fourth inch (1/4") thick and in case any single piece or
pane of glass has an area exceeding three (3) square feet, it shall be wired
glass. One section, not exceeding three (3) square feet in area, constructed of
wire glass or safety glass, shall be permitted on each side of a sign.
C.   Height And Area: Projecting signs shall be limited in area to seventy five
(75) square feet per side and shall not exceed a height of the    zoning
district.
   D.   Location: Every projecting sign shall be placed at least ten feet (10')
above any sidewalk used by the public over which it is erected, and a distance
not greater than twelve inches (12") from the face of the wall to which it is
attached, measuring from the point of the sign nearest thereto. No sign or part
thereof shall extend onto public property or right of way.
   E.   Support Structures:
      1.   Projecting signs exceeding ten (10) square feet in area or fifty
(50) pounds in weight shall not be attached to nor supported by frame buildings
nor the wooden framework of a building. Said signs shall be rigidly hung on
beams.
      2.   No projecting sign shall be secured with wire, strips of wood or
nails, nor shall any projecting sign be hung or secured to any other sign.
   F.   Illumination:
      1.   The reflectors shall be provided with the proper lenses
concentrating the illumination upon the area of the sign and preventing glare
upon the street or adjacent property; and no floodlight or spotlight nor
reflectors of the gooseneck type shall be permitted on projecting signs.
      2.   Every nonconforming projecting sign over public property shall be
illuminated between sunset and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. every morning, Monday
through Saturday, on each side thereof, by at least five (5) watts per square
foot of sign surface, but in no case less than sixty (60) watts for each sign
surface.
      3.   The use of marquee lighting shall be restricted for use on
projecting signs.
   G.   Movable Parts: Any movable part of a projecting sign such as the cover
of a service opening shall be securely fastened by chains or hinges.
   H.   V-Shaped Signs Prohibited: V-shaped signs, consisting of two (2)
single-faced signs erected without a roof or ceiling, shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-18: MARQUEES:
The provisions of this section shall govern marquees.
   A.   Materials: All marquees, including the anchors, bolts, supports, rods
and braces thereof, shall be constructed of incombustible materials and shall
be designed by a structural engineer.
   B.   Location:
      1.   Height Above Sidewalk: No portion of a marquee shall be less than
ten feet (10') above grade or any public thoroughfare.
      2.   Setback From Property Line: No marquee or any part thereof shall be
permitted to extend beyond the property line into any dedicated public right of
way.
   C.   Area: Attraction board and other illuminated surfaces shall not exceed
five hundred (500) square feet in total, including all vertical surfaces.
   D.   Structural Requirements:
      1.   Supports: Marquees shall be supported solely by the building to
which they are attached, and no columns or posts shall be permitted as support
therefor.
      2.   Roof Live Load And Wind Pressure Requirements: The roof of any
marquee shall be designed and constructed to support a live load of not less
than one hundred (100) pounds per square foot. The wind pressure requirements
shall be those stated in subsection 6-8-4B of this chapter.
      3.   Anchorage To Wood Structures: No marquees shall be erected on any
building of wood frame construction unless attached to the masonry, concrete or
steel supports of the building.
   E.   Signs Attached To Marquee: Signs attached to, or hung from a marquee
shall be completely within the borderline of the marquee outer edge, and shall
in no instance be lower than ten feet (10') above a sidewalk or public
thoroughfare. No sign or advertising material shall exceed five feet (5') in
height exclusive of the name of the establishment exhibiting such marquee. No
advertising material shall be placed upon the roof of any marquee.
   F.   Roofs Of Marquees:
      1.   Drainage: The roofs of all marquees shall be leakproof and properly
guttered and connected to downspouts to a storm sewer.
      2.   Roof Use And Materials: The roofs of all marquees shall be used for
no other purpose than to form and constitute a roof and shall be of
incombustible material.
   G.   Illumination: It shall be allowed to place marquee lighting on marquee
signs.
   H.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Chapter, the
Illumination regulations of this Chapter shall not apply or be imposed upon any
currently existing marquee sign following the passage of an ordinance approving
this Chapter. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-19: AWNINGS AND CANOPIES:
The provisions of this section shall govern awnings and canopies for commercial
or public use.
   A.   Permits And Inspections: Permits for awnings and canopies shall be
required as provided in subsection
6-8-3A of this chapter. Awnings and canopies shall be subject to annual
inspection as required in section
6-8-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Materials:
      1.   Awnings: Awnings may be constructed of cloth or metal, no vinyl;
provided, however all frames and supports shall be of metal. The awning may not
be internally illuminated (no backlighting) although there may be lighting
directed downward.
      2.   Canopies: Canopies may be constructed of cloth or metal hood, no
vinyl; provided, however, all frames and supports shall be of metal. Canopies
may not be internally illuminated (no backlighting) although there may be
lighting directed downward.
   C.   Location:
      1.   Height Above Grade:
         a.   Awnings: All awnings shall be constructed and erected so that the
lowest portion thereof shall not be less than eight feet (8') above grade,
public thoroughfare, or any pedestrian walk.
         b.   Canopies: All canopies shall be constructed and erected so that
the lowest portion thereof shall be not less than nine feet (9') above grade,
public thoroughfare, or any pedestrian walk.
      2.   Setback From Property Line: No awning or canopy shall be permitted
to extend beyond the property line into public right of way.
   D.   Support Structures:
      1.   Awnings:
         a.   Every awning shall be securely attached to and supported by the
building.
         b.   Posts or columns shall not be permitted for awnings.
         c.   No awning shall be attached to the wood jambs, frames or other
wood members of a building (frame buildings excepted) when such building is
less than ten feet (10') from public property.
      2.   Canopies: The framework of all canopies shall be designed by a
structural engineer. All frames and supports shall be of metal and designed to
withstand a wind pressure as provided in subsection
6-8-4B of this chapter.
   E.   Advertising: No advertising shall be placed on any awning or canopy;
except, that the name of the owner and business, industry or pursuit conducted
within the premises may be painted or otherwise permanently placed on the front
and side portions thereof except as approved by the Department of Community
Development and Growth Management. The area of advertisement located on an
awning or canopy shall be limited and count toward the allowable wall signage.
(Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-20: TRANSPORTATION SHELTERS AND ADVERTIS- ING SIGNS:
Transportation shelters may only be erected with prior specific approval of the
Zoning and Planning Commission and the president and board of trustees. Public
hearings for variations of zoning are not required for the placement of the
transportation shelters on public rights of way or on privately owned property;
provided, that prior approval was given by said commission and board. All
transportation shelters and advertising thereon shall be covered by the clauses
and provisions of a specific contract which shall be executed by the
transportation shelter corporation, firm, person or association, and the
Village president and board of trustees. (Ords. 9-13-41, 19-16-66)
6-8-21: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   A.   Construction: Temporary signs must be maintained in a structurally
safe, clean, unblemished, and presentable manner.
      1.   Materials: Temporary signs may be constructed of cloth, canvas,
light fabric, cardboard, wallboard, wood or other light materials, with or
without frames.
      2.   Support Structures: Except for pennants, banners, inflatable signs
and window signs, if any temporary sign is attached to a wall, such a temporary
sign shall be attached to the wall with wire or steel cables or similar safe
fastening, but in no case shall string, rope or wood slats or other uncertain
fastenings be used to support or anchor the sign to the wall.
      3.   Location: No temporary signs shall be located in or on the public
right of way, sidewalk or other public thoroughfare, nor shall such signs be
located in such a manner as to interfere with the flow of traffic or restrict
the visibility at intersections or driveways.
      4.   Inflatable Signs: Inflatable signs may be erected on top of
structures or on the ground. Inflatable signs erected on the ground shall not
be tethered or otherwise suspended above the ground, but shall be fastened
directly to the ground without any vertical clearance between the inflatable
sign and the ground.
   B.   Duration: Temporary signs shall be allowed for the specified periods
set forth below:
      1.   Inflatable Signs: No inflatable sign shall be permitted on the same
parcel for a period of more than seven (7) consecutive days in any year, nor
for more than a total of thirty five (35) days in any year, with a maximum
height of fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Pennants: No pennants shall be permitted.
      3.   Banners: Banners shall comply with the allowable number and area of
wall signs. All banners shall remain on the location where they are erected or
placed for a period of not more than sixty (60) days, and shall be removed
within five (5) days after the event to which they relate has ended.
      4.   Other Temporary Signs: All other temporary signs, except for
political signs and subject to any other exemptions found in section 6-8-22 of
this chapter, shall remain on the location where they are erected or placed for
a period of not more than sixty (60)days, and shall be removed within five (5)
days after the event to which they relate has ended.
   C.   Permitted Temporary Signs By Type And Zoning District: Temporary signs
shall be allowed in the Village in accordance with the following table:
PERMITTED TEMPORARY SIGNS BY TYPE AND ZONING DISTRICT
Y = Allowed without sign permit.
P = Allowed only with sign permit pursuant to section
6-8-3 of this chapter.
N = Not allowed.
 
                    Zoning Districts
Sign Type           Residential          Commercial           Office All Other
                    (R-1, R-2, R-3, PUD) (C-1, C-2, C-3, PUD)
Banners             Y1                   P                    P      P
Inflatable          Y1                   P                    P      P
Pennants            P1                   P                    P      P
All other temporary P1                   P2                   P2     P2
 
Notes:   1.   No commercial message allowed on sign, except for a commercial
message drawing attention to an activity legally offered on the premises.
2.   A temporary sign over 8 square feet in area shall obtain a permit and
comply with all sections of the sign code.
   D.   Permitted Number And Size Of Temporary Signs By Sign Type: The number
and size of temporary signs shall be allowed in accordance with the following
table:
PERMITTED NUMBER AND SIZE OF TEMPORARY SIGNS BY TYPE
n/a = Not applicable
 
Sign Type           Number Allowed            Maximum Sign Area 1
Banners             1 per wall; maximum 4 per n/a
                    building
Inflatable          1 per lot                 n/a
Pennants            n/a                       n/a
All other temporary 1 per lot                 8 square feet per sign face
 
(Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-22: MOBILE SIGNS:
   A.   Number Of Days Permitted: No mobile sign shall be permitted to stand at
any address within the Village for a period of more than thirty (30)
consecutive days in any year, nor more than a total of sixty (60) days in any
year. No mobile sign permit shall be issued for consecutive thirty (30) day
periods without at least a period of thirty (30) days intervening.
   B.   Public Right Of Way: No mobile sign shall be permitted to stand upon
any public right of way. All mobile signs shall be placed on private property
only.
   C.   Traffic And Line Of Sight Hazards: All mobile signs shall meet all
Village requirements concerning traffic hazards and line of sight hazards.
   D.   Lights: No mobile sign shall be permitted with lights that flash, blink
or vary in intensity.
   E.   Compliance With Code: All mobile signs shall comply with all applicable
code provisions of the Village, including, but not limited to, the electrical
code provisions where the mobile sign is electrical.
   F.   Name And Address Of Owner: Each mobile sign shall have clearly and
permanently stamped, painted or affixed thereon in a prominent and visible
location, the name and address of the mobile sign's owner.
   G.   Electrical Mobile Signs: When a mobile sign is electrical, the
following regulations, in addition to all other applicable regulations, shall
apply thereto:
      1.   The total length of cord between the source of power and the mobile
sign unit shall be no more than twelve feet (12') in length.
      2.   The source of power shall be a weatherproof receptacle, grounded
type.
      3.   There shall not be any other connector of any kind between the
mobile sign and the source of power.
      4.   In no case shall the cord be in such a position that it will be
walked over by pedestrian traffic or be driven over by any form of wheeled
vehicle.
      5.   No mobile sign shall be operated with any power source unless the
mobile sign unit has a UL label affixed thereto.
      6.   Temporary electrical permits shall be required for electrical mobile
signs.
   H.   Maintenance: All mobile signs shall be maintained in good working order
and in a structurally safe condition, and the immediate area surrounding said
mobile sign shall be kept free from litter and debris.
   I.   Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person to place a mobile sign
within the Village without first having obtained a permit therefor from the
Department of Community Development and Growth Management. The application for
said permit shall be on a form provided by the Department of Community
Development and Growth Management and contain such information as required by
the Department of Community Development and Growth Management.
   J.   Permit Fee: The mobile sign permit fee shall be as set forth in
subsection
6-8-3D of this chapter and shall be in addition to any other permit or
inspection fees required by this code.
   K.   Permit Period: All mobile sign permits shall be valid for a period not
to exceed thirty (30) days and shall set forth thereon the date of issuance and
expiration.
   L.   Penalty Provisions:
      1.   Any person who places a mobile sign upon property within the Village
without first having obtained and kept in full effect a permit as required
above, shall be required to procure a permit for such sign, and shall pay a fee
therefor equal to twice the fee which is otherwise charged hereunder.
      2.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined
not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as having been
committed each day upon which said person shall continue any such violation.
      3.   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
section, in addition to the penalties provided herein, shall have his permit
revoked.
      4.   When the person responsible for violating the provisions of this
section cannot reasonably be determined, then the person holding the permit to
place the mobile sign at such location shall be the person who is in violation
of this section. In the event that at the time of the violation there exists no
valid permit for the particular mobile sign in violation, then the owner of the
sign shall be the person who is in violation of this section. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-23: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   The provisions and regulations of this chapter shall not apply to the
following signs; provided, however, said signs shall be subject to the
provisions of sections
6-8-6 and
6-8-7 of this chapter; and further provided, any exempted permanent or
temporary sign as stated herein exceeding the limitations in the exceptions
shall come under all applicable provisions of this chapter:
      1.   House numbers, house nameplates, and professional nameplates not
exceeding two (2) square feet in area.
      2.   Signs painted on the exterior surface of a building or structure;
provided, however, if said signs have raised borders, letters, characters,
decorations or lighting appliances, they shall be subject to the provisions of
section
6-8-14 of this chapter and all other applicable provisions of this chapter.
Should the painted sign cover more than twenty five percent (25%) of the
subject wall, the sign owner shall petition the Department of Community
Development and Growth Management and upon their approval apply and pay for a
sign permit for said sign.
      3.   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, railroad crossing
signs and danger signs. These signs are defined as governmental signs in
section
6-8-2 of this chapter.
      4.   Holiday decorations, signs or other material displayed in connection
with civic, patriotic or religious holidays.
      5.   Official flags, pennants, or insignia of any governmental or
nonprofit organization.
      6.   A sign advertising the sale or lease of a lot or space on which the
sign is placed. Such signs shall be subject to the public right of way location
restriction set forth in subsection
6-8-20A3 of this chapter, and shall not exceed eight (8) square feet per sign
face in area. Only one such sign may be placed on the lot or premises to which
it pertains, except that two (2) such signs may be placed on double frontage
lots. Such sign shall be removed within five (5) days after the buyer and
seller are mutually bound to conclude/consummate the sale or lease of the lot
or space to which the sign pertains.
      7.   A construction sign identifying the parties involved in the
construction to occur or occurring on the lot or premises on which the sign is
placed. Such signs shall be subject to the public right of way location
restriction set forth in subsection 6-8-20A3 of this chapter and shall not
exceed eight (8) square feet per sign face in area. Such signs may identify the
owner's name, the architect for the project, the contractor or contractors for
the project, the financing arrangements for the project, and/or the purpose for
which the project is intended. No products or services may be advertised on
construction signs. One construction sign may be placed on each part of the lot
or on each face of the building which borders or is oriented to a public
street. A construction sign shall be removed within five (5) days after the
final occupancy certificate is issued relative to the project.
      8.   Political signs displayed in accordance with an official election or
signs erected on behalf of candidates for public office. Such signs shall be
subject to the public right of way location restriction set forth in subsection
6-8-20A3 of this chapter and shall not exceed eight (8) square feet per sign
face in area.
      9.   Historical signs/iconic signs, as defined by the Oak Lawn historical
preservation commission and the office of quality control. [Listed provided by
Village]
      10.   Exempt Lighting. Any and all lighting used for temporary
emergencies to ensure public safety, lighting used for municipal construction,
lighting utilized for flags, lighting for radio, communication, and navigation
towers, and temporary exterior lighting approved by the Village.
   B.   No permit shall be required for normal painting or maintenance. (Ord.
9-13-41)
6-8-24: VIOLATIONS AND PENAL- TIES:
   A.   Any person found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day
such violation is committed, or permitted to continue, shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
   B.   All violations of this chapter shall be processed according to the
provisions of title 11, chapter 12, "Administrative Adjudication Of
Nonvehicular Regulations Violations", of this code.
   C.   The Department of Community Development and Growth Management or its
designee is authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter
and shall be responsible for interpreting this chapter's provisions. (Ord. 9-
13-41)
6-8-25: AUTOMOBILE "FOR SALE" SIGNS:
The provisions of this section shall govern automobile "for sale" signs.
   A.   Residents or property owners within the Village shall be allowed to
offer automobiles and other motorized vehicles for sale through the use of "for
sale" signs affixed to such vehicles in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   B.   No more than a total of six (6) motorized vehicles, and no more than
one at a time, shall be permitted to be offered for sale by residents of any
one household or one property address per year.
   C.   Motorized vehicles bearing "for sale" signs shall be displayed on
private driveways only. No motorized vehicle bearing a "for sale" sign may be
displayed on commercial property within the Village without previous permission
of the property owner. Vehicles bearing such signs which are permitted to be
parked in commercial parking lots with the property owner's permission shall
not be displayed in such lots for a period exceeding twelve (12) hours in any
one day. Any such vehicle remaining on a commercial lot for a period in excess
of twelve (12) hours, or displayed on public property within the Village, may
be towed at the discretion of the property owner or the Village, at the expense
of the vehicle owner or of the person leaving the automobile in such location.
   D.   Such signs shall not block or obscure the vision of the driver of the
vehicle and shall not violate any provisions of the Illinois vehicle code.
   E.   All "for sale" signs shall be maintained by the owner of the sign in a
clean, sanitary and inoffensive condition.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of this
section. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subjected
to a fine not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) and not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-26: VILLAGE DISTRICTS:
In order to regulate and limit the use of signs on lot areas and buildings, the
Village is hereby divided into four (4) districts, to be used only for the
regulation of signs, as follows:
   A.   Residential: This shall include the districts outlined in section
4-4-1 of this code known as R-1 (single-family residence district), R-2
(limited multi-family residence district), R-3 (multi-family residence
district), PD R-l (planned single-family residence district), PD R-2 (planned
limited multi-family residence district), and PD R-3 (planned multi-family
residence district).
   B.   Commercial: This shall include the districts outlined in section
4-4-1 of this code known as C-1 (general business district), C-2 (general
service district), C-3 (regional shopping district), O (office district), and
PK (parking district).
   C.   Manufacturing: This shall include the districts outlined in section
4-4-1 of this code known as M-l (restricted manufacturing district).
   D.   Public: This shall include the districts outlined in section
4-4-1 of this code known as PL (public lands district). (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-27: PUBLIC CLOCKS:
   A.   As defined by section
6-8-25 of this chapter, public clocks shall be allowed in
"commercial", "manufacturing", and "public" districts. Public clocks shall not
be allowed in "residential" districts.
   B.   Public clocks shall consist of one of two (2) types:
      1.   Circular Clock: A clock which consists of a flat panel covering an
electric motor, which powers a minute and hour hand. A second hand is allowed
but not required. The panel covering the motor shall have suitable circular
markings to denote its function as a twelve (12) hour clock.
      2.   Digital Clock: A clock comprised of electronic lights arranged in
such a pattern as to form numbers which display the current time. This type of
clock shall operate on a standard twelve (12) hour length. Both hour and minute
times must be shown; a blinking colon between hour and minute times, used to
show the progressing seconds, is allowed but not required. A digital clock
shall have no physical moving parts.
   C.   Any public clock found to be displaying an inaccurate time shall be
considered nonconforming, and have its owner notified of its discrepancy and be
given a fifteen (15) day repair period to correct the problem and restore the
clock to displaying the accurate time. The benchmark standard for accurate
Central Standard Time used is the National Institute Of Standards And
Technology (NIST). Correct time shall be defined as being within seven (7)
minutes of the NIST Central Standard Time. If the clock is not set to the
correct time following this fifteen (15) day period, the Village shall impose a
fifty dollar ($50.00) fine on the owner of the sign per every seven (7) days
which the clock continues to display the incorrect time.
   D.   All public clock owners shall be granted automatic fifteen (15) day
repair periods starting on the Monday after the second Sunday in March, and the
Monday following the first Sunday in November. These automatic fifteen (15) day
repair periods shall be granted to allow for the readjustment of their clock's
time in compliance with daylight savings time. If the necessary adjustments are
not made within this automatic repair period, the fine policy defined in
subsection D of this section will apply. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-28: ANIMATED SIGNS:
   A.   Animated signs shall be allowed in "commercial" districts, as defined
in section
6-8-25 of this chapter.
   B.   All rules of section
6-8-11. "Illuminated Signs", of this chapter also apply to animated signs.
   C.   Animated signs shall not be constructed and/or programmed in such a
manner in which causes them to be distracting motorists or pedestrians, putting
them at risk. Any degree of distraction shall be determined at a Village of Oak
Lawn code enforcer's discretion.
   D.   Animated signs shall only be permitted as accessories to other signs.
The animated portion of the sign shall not take up more than thirty percent
(30%) of the total square footage on one face of the sign. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-29: WINDOW SIGNS:
   A.   Window signs shall be allowed in "commercial" and "public" districts,
as defined in section §
6-8-25 of this chapter.
   B.   Window signs shall consist of waterproof fade resistant material
attached to the inside of a window, or a physical display of items which
extends inward to a horizontal depth of three feet (3') measured from the
inside of the window.
   C.   In situations where it is desirable to completely blank out a window as
to prevent light from coming through, occupants of the building or unit shall
be allowed two (2) options:
      1.   The glass shall be replaced with a nontransparent flat panel which
has similar structural characteristics as glass and does not require painting
as a regular maintenance task. This panel shall be colored in such a way as to
blend in with the colors of the building itself. Such a panel will thereafter
not be considered a window sign.
      2.   The interior of the glass shall be used to display tasteful artwork
in such a way which may promote the business as well as promote artistic
expression. The artwork may only be composed on the interior of the glass after
it has been checked for cracks, and may only consist of those materials which
are waterproof and fade resistant.
   D.   A window sign shall be considered nonconforming under the following
criteria:
      1.   The items or material used for the window sign become faded or show
signs of water damage.
      2.   The window itself becomes broken or cracked.
      3.   Signs of obvious neglect begin to show. This includes, but is not
limited to, the collection of dust, dirt, or other debris in the area
immediately inside the window.
      4.   If the window sign is not being used to blank out the entire window,
the sign takes up more than forty percent (40%) of the total square footage of
glass on the front of the unit. This nonconformance regulation shall only be
applied to those signs which are applied directly to the window or sit within
six inches (6") of the interior edge of the pane of glass. Window displays
shall be exempt.
In addition, a window without a window sign which remains undecorated with a
nondecorative, strictly functional item or item(s) directly behind the glass
shall be considered a nonconforming window sign until the installation of
either blank out option defined.
   E.   Illumination: It shall be prohibited to place marquee lighting on any
window sign or building structure, including but not limited to windows, doors,
parapet, exterior walls, support beams, roofs and balconies. (Ord. 9-13-41)
6-8-30: PORTABLE SIDEWALK SIGNS:
   A.   Commercial Districts: Portable sidewalk signs shall be allowed in
"commercial" districts, as defined in section 6-8-25 of this chapter.
   B.   Size: Portable sidewalk signs shall be no greater than six (6) square
feet in area and not exceed four feet (4') in height.
   C.   Number: No more than one sign shall be permitted per business customer
entrance. The Village reserves the right to limit the number of portable
sidewalk sign permits issued to ensure the proper flow of pedestrian and
vehicular traffic, and otherwise to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare. In that event, permits shall be processed and issued on a first come,
first serve basis.
   D.   Display: All portable sidewalk signs shall be removed:
      1.   When the business is not open for customers.
      2.   When the national weather service issues a high wind warning, a
tornado or severe thunderstorm watch or warning.
      3.   From public sidewalks during an accumulation snowfall event.
   E.   Permitted Locations: All portable sidewalk signs shall be located:
      1.   At grade level.
      2.   In front of the business property.
      3.   No more than fifteen feet (15') from the customer entrance to the
building for the business being advertised.
      4.   A minimum of two feet (2') back from the curb adjacent to parking
spaces.
   F.   Prohibited Locations: No portable sidewalk sign shall be located:
      1.   In landscaped areas or the parkway.
      2.   In parking aisles or stalls.
      3.   On or anchored to fences, planters, other signs, vehicles, utility
facilities or any structure.
      4.   In streets or alleys.
      5.   Within the Illinois department of transportation right of way.
   G.   Right Of Way Placement: Signs may be placed on a Village owned
sidewalk:
      1.   Pursuant to the issuance of an annual Village of Oak Lawn portable
sidewalk sign permit.
      2.   Subject to all requirements for insurance and indemnification as
provided below.
   H.   Construction And Maintenance: Signs shall be:
      1.   Constructed of exterior grade, rigid, weather resistant and durable
materials,
      2.   Of sufficient weight and durability to ensure the sign remains in
place during normal weather conditions, and
      3.   Maintained in a professional manner free of chipping paint, cracks,
gouges, loss of letters, and similar defects.
   I.   Elements Prohibited On Portable Sidewalk Signs: The following shall be
prohibited on portable signs:
      1.   Any form of internal or external illumination, including flashing,
blinking, or rotating lights;
      2.   Animation;
      3.   Attachments, including, but not limited to, sandbags or other items
to hold a sign in place, balloons, ribbons, flags, speakers, other copy or
graphics.
   J.   Clearance For Pedestrians: A clear pedestrian access path shall be
maintained as follows:
      1.   Public Sidewalks: A minimum of four feet (4').
      2.   Private Walkways: A minimum of three feet (3').
   K.   Insurance: The applicant for a portable sidewalk sign permit shall
provide, at its sole cost and expense, and shall thereafter maintain in effect
during the entire period of the permit, insurance in the following manner:
      1.   Comprehensive general liability insurance, including owner's
protective liability insurance and contractual liability insurance covering
claims for personal injury and property damage with limits of at least one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) aggregate;
      2.   Prior to issuance of a portable sidewalk sign permit, the applicant
shall provide the Village with copies of the certificates of insurance for the
required policies for each type of insurance naming the Village of Oak Lawn as
an additional insured party.
   L.   Indemnification: The permittee shall indemnify, defend, protect, and
hold harmless the Village, its corporate authorities, officers, employees,
agents and volunteers from and against any and all claims, demands, losses,
damages, liabilities, fines, charges, penalties, administrative and judicial
proceedings and orders, judgments, remedial actions of any kind, all costs and
cleanup actions of any kind, and all costs and expenses incurred in connection
therewith, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees, expert
witness fees and costs of defenses (collectively, the "losses") directly or
proximately resulting from permittee's acts or omissions, except to the extent
that the Village is the sole legal cause of said losses. (Ord. 9-13-41)
CHAPTER 9
DANGEROUS AND ABANDONED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES
SECTION:
6-9-1: Definitions
6-9-2: Nuisance Declared
6-9-3: Action by Village Officials
6-9-4: Authority to Close Building, Suspend or Revoke License
6-9-5: Costs to Owner
6-9-6: Occupying Unsanitary Building
6-9-7: Abatement
6-9-8: Court Proceedings
6-9-9: Alternative Actions
6-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
prescribed herein:
ABANDONED BUILDING or STRUCTURE:
   A.   Any vacant building which is frequented by persons who are not lawful
occupants of such structure; or
   B.   Any vacant building which, by reason of lack of maintenance, or by
reason of the boarding up of its doors and windows, or other reasons, has a
substantial adverse effect on the value of the property in the immediate
neighborhood; or
   C.   A building or structure, the principal use of which has been abandoned,
and that no longer has any function or use; or
   D.   Any railroad trestle or siding no longer in use.
BUILDING or STRUCTURE: Includes anything constructed or erected, the use of
which requires permanent or temporary location on or in the ground including,
but not limited to, buildings of all types and use groups, advertising signs,
billboards, swimming pools, sheds, garages, fences or any other manmade
structure.
DANGEROUS BUILDING or STRUCTURE:
   A.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health or
safety because of its construction or condition, or which may cause or aid in
the spread of disease or which may become a harborage for rodents or other
animals, or which may cause injury to the occupants thereof or of a neighboring
building or structure; or
   B.   Any building or structure which, because of faulty construction, age,
lack of proper repair or any other cause, constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
or
   C.   Any building or structure, which, by reason of faulty construction, age
or lack of repair is likely to collapse or fall, in whole or in part; or
   D.   Any building or structure which has been damaged by fire, wind or other
causes so as to have become dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general
health and welfare of the occupants or the people of the Village; or
   E.   Any building which has become or is so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary or which so utterly fails to provide the amenities essential to
decent living that it is unfit for human habitation, or is likely to cause
sickness or disease so as to work injury to the health, morals, safety or
general welfare of those living therein; or
   F.   Any building or structure which has parts thereof which are so attached
that they may fall or injure members of the public or property; or
   G.   Any building or structure which because of its condition is unsafe,
unsanitary or dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of the
people of this Village; or
   H.   Any building or structure existing in violation of any provision of the
Building Code of this Village 1  or any provision of the Fire Prevention Code
or other ordinances of this Village 2 . (1951 Code 21-15-1-21-15-8; Ord. 77-6-
5)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 1 of this Title.
2 2. See Title 7, Chapter 3 of this Code.
6-9-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any dangerous or abandoned building or structure, as defined by Section
6-9-1 of this Chapter, within the Village is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1951 Code 21-15-1-21-15-8; Ord. 77-6-5)
6-9-3: ACTION BY VILLAGE OFFICIALS:
   A.   Notice: Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the Director of
Office of Quality Control, the Chief Building Inspector or to the Health and
Sanitation Officer that a building or structure is in a dangerous or abandoned
condition, such officer shall affix a notice on the building or structure, in a
conspicuous place on the exterior wall thereof, informing all persons to keep
out of said building. Any person removing, defacing or disturbing such notice
as affixed shall be liable to the penalties provided for in this Code.
   B.   Evacuation of Building: Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the
Director of Office of Quality Control, the Chief Building Inspector or to the
Health and Sanitation Officer that a dangerous building exists with structural
faults that may cause the imminent collapse of the said building, or if any
building is in such condition as to make it dangerous to the health, morals,
safety or general welfare of its occupants, or that other conditions exist of
an emergency nature which may cause the death or injury of the occupants
thereof, such officer shall order the immediate evacuation of the occupants
from any such building.
   C.   Emergency Repair, Vacation or Demolition: In cases where it reasonably
appears that there is immediate danger to the life or safety of any person,
unless a "dangerous building or structure", as defined herein, is immediately
repaired, vacated or demolished, the Director of Office of Quality Control
shall cause the immediate repair, vacation or demolition of such dangerous
building or structure. The costs of such emergency repair, vacation or
demolition shall be collected in the same manner as provided in Section
6-9-8 of this Chapter. (1951 Code 21-15-1-21-15-8; Ords. 77-6-5, 81-12-19; 1985
Code)
6-9-4: AUTHORITY TO CLOSE BUILDING, SUSPEND OR REVOKE LICENSE:
   A.   The Director of Office of Quality Control, the Chief Building Inspector
or Health and Sanitation Officer may order that no person shall be permitted to
enter, occupy or use a dangerous building or structure or any portion thereof
until the same shall have been made safe and habitable, and may post such order
in a conspicuous place on the exterior of such building or structure. No person
shall enter, occupy or use (except for the purpose of repairing and making
safe) any building or structure, or portion thereof, after the posting of such
notice until such building or structure or portion thereof shall have been made
safe and habitable.
   B.   If any building or structure or portion thereof which is dangerous or
abandoned shall be devoted to any purpose requiring a license, the President
may suspend such license pending the making of repairs and he may revoke such
license if the owner or person having an interest in such unsafe or abandoned
building or structure or portion thereof fails to make the same safe
immediately and at his own expense. (1951 Code 21-15-1-21-15-8; Ords. 77-6-5,
81-12-19; 1985 Code)
6-9-5: COSTS TO OWNER:
If work has been done and expense incurred by the Village in connection with
the repair or demolition of any dangerous building or structure as provided
herein, a bill for such expense shall be rendered by the Village to the owner,
lessee, occupant or agent of the property. The Village may refuse to issue a
permit for the reconstruction, alteration or repair of any such building or
portion thereof until the expenditures incurred by the Village on account of
such repairs or demolition have been repaid. (1951 Code 21-15-1-21-15-8; Ord.
77-6-5)
6-9-6: OCCUPYING UNSANITARY BUILDING:
It shall be unlawful to occupy for human habitation any building which is
declared by the Health and Sanitation Officer to be unfit for such habitation
by reason of defective sanitary conditions until such conditions have been
remedied and the premises approved by such Health and Sanitation Officer as fit
for occupancy. (1951 Code 21-15-1-21-15-8; Ord. 77-6-5; 1985 Code)
6-9-7: ABATEMENT:
   A.   The Director of Office of Quality Control, the Chief Building Inspector
or the Health and Sanitation Officer may, prior to the action of the Board of
Trustees authorized in Section
6-9-8 hereof, give written notice to the owner or owner's agent of a dangerous
or abandoned building or structure, as defined herein, to repair or demolish it
within fifteen (15) days. Where, upon diligent search, the identity or
whereabouts of the owner or owner's agent of any building or structure is not
ascertainable, notice mailed to the person or persons in whose name such real
estate was last assessed is sufficient notice under this Section.
   B.   If, at the end of no less than fifteen (15) days and no more than
thirty (30) days from the date of the aforesaid written notice, the owner or
owner's agent has failed to take positive action to put such building or
structure in a satisfactory condition or to demolish it, the Director of Office
of Quality Control shall notify the Village Manager of such failure, and the
Village Manager shall advise the President and Board of Trustees that a
dangerous or abandoned building or structure exists and that no action has been
taken by the owner or owner's agent after written notice to repair or demolish
it. (1951 Code 21-15-1-21-15-8; Ords. 77-6-5, 81-12-19; 1985 Code)
6-9-8: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
After notification to the President and Board of Trustees by the Village
Manager that no action is being taken to demolish or repair a dangerous or
abandoned building or structure, the President and Board of Trustees may
authorize the Village Attorney to apply to the Circuit Court of Cook County for
an order authorizing the demolition or repair of a dangerous or abandoned
building or structure, as defined herein, if the owners thereof, including the
lien holders of record after at least fifteen (15) days' written notice by mail
to do so, have failed to put such building or structure in a satisfactory
condition or to demolish it. It is not a defense to such cause of action that
the building is boarded up or otherwise enclosed. Where, upon diligent search,
the identity or whereabouts of the owner or owners of any such building or
structure, including the lien holders of record, is not ascertainable, notice
mailed to the person or persons in whose name such real estate was last
assessed is sufficient notice under this Section. The cost of such demolition
or repair incurred by the Village or by a lien holder of record is recoverable
from the owner or owners of such real estate and is a lien thereon, which lien
is superior to all prior existing liens and encumbrances, except taxes;
provided that, within sixty (60) days after such repair or demolition, the
Village or the lien holder of record who incurred such cost and expense shall
file notice of lien of such cost and expense incurred in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds of Cook County or in the office of the Registrar of Titles of
such County, if the real estate affected is registered under the Torrens
system. The notice must consist of a sworn statement setting out:
   A.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification thereof;
   B.   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred; and
   C.   The date or dates when the cost and expense was incurred by the Village
or by the lien holder of record.
Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of or persons interested in
the property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by
the Village or person in whose name the lien has been filed, and the release
may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien. The lien may be
enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in case of mortgage or mechanic's lien.
Suit to foreclose this lien must be commenced within three (3) years after the
date of filing notice of lien. (1951 Code 21-15-1-21-5-8; Ord. 77-6-5)
6-9-9: ALTERNATIVE ACTIONS:
In addition to the other remedies provided for here- in, the Village may
proceed in accordance with the provisions of chapter 24, sections 11-31-1 or
11-31-2 of the Illinois Revised Statutes, or may pursue any other remedy
provided by law. (1951 Code 21-15-1-21-15-8; Ord. 77-6-5)
CHAPTER 10
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
6-10-1: Permit Requirements
6-10-2: Lights Required
6-10-3: Prohibited Acts and Conditions
6-10-4: Compliance With Other Provisions
6-10-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No building shall be moved on or across any public
street, walk, alley or other public place within the Village by any person,
except upon a permit duly issued by the Village.
   B.   Fee 1 : Before the issuance of such permit, the applicant shall pay to
the Village a sum of money in payment for the occupancy of the street or
streets through which the said building is proposed to be moved, and said sum
to be determined by estimating the number of days which will be required to
move said building, on the assumption that the building will be moved five
hundred feet (500') per day, at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day.
   C.   Bond: In addition to the payment for street occupancy, there shall be
furnished a bond in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) with good and
sufficient sureties to be approved by the President, conditioned, among other
things that said party will pay any and all damage that may occur to any public
street, alley or public place over which said building may be moved, and to
reimburse the Village and any public utility company for the cost of removing
and replacing all overhead wires, cables and appurtenances and for the making
of the necessary repairs thereto.
   D.   Liability Insurance: Before any person, to whom a permit has been
issued under this Chapter, shall enter upon the moving of any building
authorized to be moved by the permit, he shall obtain from some reliable
insurance company, policies of liability insurance indemnifying the Village and
public for any damage or injury resulting to any of the workmen or employees of
such person engaged in the moving of such building, and also indemnifying the
Village and public for any damages or injury suffered by any other person
resulting from the moving of such building.
   E.   Issuance of Permit: If, upon consideration of such application and such
inspection as the Director of Office of Quality Control may deem necessary, it
shall appear to the Director that the work proposed to be done is in accordance
with this Code and the ordinances of the Village, the Director, upon the
payment to the Village of the fees and bond herein provided for, shall grant
the permit sought for such purpose. (1951 Code 21-13-1, 21-13-5; Ord. 81-12-19;
1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1-7 of this Code for license fee.
6-10-2: LIGHTS REQUIRED:
On each and every night while a building remains on the public streets or
alleys of the Village, from dusk to sunrise, the person to whom the permit was
issued shall place and cause to be maintained at the center and each end of
such building, red lights, which lights shall be plainly visible during the
period above mentioned. (1951 Code 21-13-3)
6-10-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Driving Stakes in Pavements or Railroad Crossings: It shall be unlawful
for any person to whom a permit has been issued under this Chapter, to drive
stakes in any pavement, public alley or at any railroad or railway crossing.
   B.   Obstructing Intersections, Railroad Crossings: No building which is
authorized to be moved in accordance with the terms of this Chapter shall be
permitted to stand or remain in the intersection of any streets, or any street
and public alley, or upon any railroad or railway crossing at any time during
the course of its moving. (1951 Code 21-13-2, 21-13-4)
6-10-4: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS:
No permit to move any building within the Village shall be granted unless the
construction and proposed use of such building on the proposed new site shall
conform in every way to requirements of this Title and of the Zoning Ordinance.
1  (1951 Code 21-13-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 4 of this Municipal Code.
CHAPTER 11
FENCES
SECTION:
6-11-1: Definition
6-11-2: Permit Required; Fee
6-11-3: Design And Construction Regulations
6-11-4: Cost Of Construction
6-11-5: Fencing For Construction And Demolition Activity
6-11-6: Fence Variations
6-11-7: Penalty
6-11-1: DEFINITION:
A "fence" is hereby defined as a manmade structure forming a barrier which is
not a part of any building or structure, and is more than two feet (2') in
height over existing grade. (1985 Code)
6-11-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or construct any fence within the
village limits without having first obtained a permit from the director of the
office of quality control. The fee for said permit shall be thirty dollars
($30.00). (Ords. 87-9-32, 94-4-13, 05-23-86)
6-11-3: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   General: Every fence shall be designed and constructed to resist a
horizontal wind pressure of not less than twice that required for buildings, as
set forth in the building code. Where the distance from the lot line to the
face of any fence is less than the height of the fence, such fence shall have
lateral supports on one side with structural braces extending to the top of the
fence.
Where the style of the fence is such that the fence posts and support pieces
between fence posts are located only on one side of the fence, the fence shall
be constructed such that the side of the fence with the fence posts and support
pieces faces the interior of the fence owner's property (facing away from
streets, alleys and neighboring properties).
   B.   Residential Requirements:
      1.   The maximum fence height in a residential use district shall not
exceed six feet (6') between buildings or in the rear yard behind the building.
All height dimensions shall be measured from the established grade to the
topmost section of the fence.
      2.   No fence shall be built, constructed or erected so as to extend past
the front yard building line as established by the zoning ordinance 1 ; nor
shall any fence be built past the side street yard on a corner lot as
established by the zoning ordinance. No fence shall be erected in any public
right of way.
No fence shall be built, constructed or erected in any easement except wherein
a release is given to the village prior thereto, absolving the village from all
liability and damages resulting from subsequent entry for the purpose of
repair, inspection, maintenance, installation or removal of utilities. Any
fence allowed or permitted in an easement shall be so constructed that the
fence and posts may be readily removable. The village shall in no way be held
liable for the replacement of any fence removed, or any other expense entailed
by the removal or reerection of any fence in said easement.
      3.   A gate or opening shall be provided in all fence enclosures.
      4.   Any suitable construction material may be used for a fence, except
chicken wire, square welded mesh wire, barbed wire, electrically charged wire,
temporary snow fence, or solid concrete block; or be topped with sharp edged
material, except that this shall not be construed to prohibit picket fences.
The entire length of the fence shall be constructed of the same or harmonious
materials.
   C.   Commercial, Office Or Manufacturing Zoning District Requirements:
      1.   The maximum height of any fence in any commercial, office or
manufacturing use district shall not exceed six feet (6') in height.
      2.   No fence shall be built, constructed or erected so as to extend past
the front yard building line as established by the zoning ordinance 2 , nor
shall any fence be built past the side street yard on a corner lot as
established by the zoning ordinance. No fence shall be erected in any public
right of way. Fence construction shall be such that it provides a clear and
unobstructed view from the building line to the property line. A clear and
unobstructed view shall be construed to mean that at least 90 percent of any
object on the opposite side of the fence shall be clearly visible at all times.
No fence shall be built, constructed or erected in any utility easement, except
wherein a release is given to the village prior thereto, absolving the village
from all liability and damages resulting from subsequent entry for the purpose
of repair, inspection, maintenance, installation or removal of utilities. Any
fence allowed or permitted in an easement shall be so constructed that the
fence and posts may be readily removable. The village shall in no way be held
liable for the replacement of any fence removed, or any other expense entailed
by the removal or reerection of any fence in said easement.
      3.   Any suitable construction material may be used for a fence, except
chicken wire, square welded mesh wire, electrically charged wire, or temporary
snow fence; or be topped with sharp edged material, except that this shall not
be construed to prohibit picket fences.
      4.   Barbed wire may be used in commercial, office or manufacturing
zoning districts, provided that such barbed wire can only be constructed above
a minimum height of seven feet (7') from the established grade, and further
provided that such barbed wire shall be turned to the inside of the property
where so erected, and that no barbed wire shall be permitted closer than five
feet (5') from any public street, sidewalk, alley, park or public right of way
or public place. The entire length of the fence shall be constructed of the
same or harmonious materials. (1951 Code; Ords. 21-16-2, 21-16-3; 1985 Code;
Ords. 89-21-64, 89-21-66; 21-14-70)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4 of this code.
2 1. See title 4 of this code.
6-11-4: COST OF CONSTRUCTION:
In case of dispute over the cost of erecting a division fence by adjoining
landowners, such dispute shall be settled according to the provisions of 765
Illinois Compiled Statutes 130/0.01 et seq. (1969 Code 6-163)
6-11-5: FENCING FOR CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION ACTIVITY:
   A.   When a permit is issued by the village authorizing the demolition of an
existing building or construction of a new building, then the applicant for
said permit shall, prior to commencing any work pursuant to said permit, erect
a chainlink fence on the subject property, of not less than six feet (6') in
height, around either:
      1.   The perimeter of the building being demolished;
      2.   The perimeter of the building under construction; or
      3.   The perimeter of the entire subdivision or work site in relation to
which the permit has been issued.
The fence shall be installed not more than seven (7) days prior to the
commencement of any construction or demolition work on the subject property,
pursuant to the permit issued by the village. Said fence shall remain in place
until such time as the village's department of quality control has confirmed
that the building, or addition thereto, is secure from unpermitted entry
thereto (i.e., all doors and windows have been installed and can be locked) or,
in the case of demolition activity, until such time as all demolition debris
has been removed and any hole left by said demolition has been properly filled.
   B.   Any gate in a fence installed pursuant to subsection A of this section
must be closed at all times except to allow ingress and egress to and from the
work site. Said gate must be locked at all times other than when construction
or demolition activity is taking place on the work site.
   C.   Fencing, as required by subsection A of this section, shall also be
required for any building construction or demolition project of the village,
the Oak Lawn park district, any school district or any other governmental
entity, whether or not a permit has been or is required to be issued by the
village relative to said construction or demolition project.
   D.   When the building/demolition permit applicant, general contractor or
property owner is notified of a violation of the provisions of this section,
said person so notified shall have two (2) hours from receipt of said notice to
correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected, the village shall
have the right, but not the obligation, to correct the violation. The costs and
fees associated with such corrective action shall be charged to the building/
demolition permit applicant, general contractor or property owner, as the case
may be. The village shall also have the right to issue an immediate "stop work"
order applicable to the work site until compliance is achieved and/or the
costs, fees and/or fines are paid.
   E.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day such violation continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
   F.   In addition to the penalty set forth in subsection E of this section,
no certificate of occupancy shall be issued relative to the construction in
question until such time that all costs incurred by the village under
subsection D of this section, and all fines imposed pursuant to subsection E of
this section, have been paid in full. (Ords. 00-19-61, 07-21-60)
6-11-6: FENCE VARIATIONS:
   A.   The following actions may be taken administratively by the director of
quality control upon petition of a property owner:
      1.   To grant a variation to subsection 6-11-3B2 of this chapter to allow
a fence to be built to the side property line on the side yard of a corner lot;
and
      2.   To grant a variation to subsection 6-11-3B4 of this chapter to allow
fence material to be used on a property to match surrounding fence material or
to use different fence material in a rear yard from that used in a front yard.
Such administrative variations shall be granted if deemed to be reasonable
requests by petitioner. An appeal of any decision made by the director of
quality control under this provision may be made to the Appeals and Review
Board under the provisions of title 2, chapter 2 of this code.
   B.   A variation from the fence height limitations of this chapter may be
applied for and granted; provided, that a finding is made as to each of the
following conditions:
      1.   That the plight of the petitioner for the variation is caused by
unique circumstances; and
      2.   That the variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the immediate surrounding area; and
      3.   That a fence, in full compliance with the maximum height limitations
of this chapter, would not adequately serve the same purposes as a fence of
increased height; and
      4.   That strict adherence to the fence height limitation requirements of
this chapter would cause particular hardship upon the petitioner for the
variation.
All requests for the aforementioned variation shall be heard by the Appeals and
Review Board pursuant to subsection
2-2-2C9 of this code.
   C.   A variation from the fence location limitations of this chapter may be
applied for and granted by the Appeals and Review Board; provided, that a
finding is made as to each of the following conditions:
      1.   That the plight of the petitioner for the variation is caused by
unique circumstances; and
      2.   That the variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the immediate surrounding area; and
      3.   That strict adherence to the fence location limitation requirements
of this chapter would cause particular hardship upon the petitioner for the
variation. (Ords. 93-14-53, 98-20-92, 07-05-17, 19-16-65)
6-11-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (1985 Code; Ord. 99-5-11)
CHAPTER 12
SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
6-12-1: Permit Required, Compliance With Building Code
6-12-2: Approval Of Plans And Specifications
6-12-3: Fences Required
6-12-4: Electrical Requirements
6-12-5: Maintenance And Inspections
6-12-1: PERMIT REQUIRED, COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING CODE:
   A.   A permanently constructed pool shall require a permit from the building
department and the construction of said pool shall conform with the building
code 1  of the village.
   B.   All pools, whether above or below ground, shall require an electrical
permit from the electrical inspection department. The fee for said permit shall
be as set forth in chapter 2, article A of this title.
   C.   All pools, whether above or below ground, shall require a swimming pool
inspection permit from the electrical inspection department. Said swimming pool
inspection permit shall not require a fee. (Ord. 84-13-34)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
6-12-2: APPROVAL OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
No swimming pools shall be constructed unless and until the plans and
specifications for the same are submitted to and approval by the director of
office of quality control of the village.
The plans and specifications for a swimming pool shall provide for an adequate
enclosure by proper fencing or other means as a safety measure. (1951 Code 21-
17-1; Ords. 170, 81-12-19)
6-12-3: FENCES REQUIRED:
   A.   Permanent Pools: All permanently constructed swimming pools shall be
protected by a fenced enclosure as required for residential use, with a height
of not less than six feet (6') and shall be equipped with a self-closing gate
and a latch four and one-half feet (41/2') over grade. For the purposes of this
section, permanent swimming pools shall be defined as inground pools and
swimming pools with metal or solid structural material frames.
   B.   Temporary Pools: All temporary, portable, sectional construction,
aboveground or nonpermanent pools shall be protected by a fenced enclosure as
required for residential use, with a height of not less than four feet (4') and
shall be equipped with a self-latching gate. For the purposes of this section,
temporary swimming pools shall be defined as those swimming pools that do not
have solid, rigid structures, including those with inflated or vinyl sides with
PVC or metal tubing.
   C.   Exception: Fences are not required for swimming pools below twenty four
inches (24") in height. (Ord. 10-23-52)
6-12-4: ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following electrical requirements shall apply to swimming pools:
   A.   Location Of Conductors: No electrical service conductors shall be
installed above the swimming pool or within an area surrounding the pool for a
distance of ten feet (10') horizontally measured from its perimeter, including
diving structures, observation stands, decks, towers or platforms.
   B.   Conduit: Galvanized rigid conduit shall extend from a pool outlet box
to a distance of fifteen feet (15') from the pool, and shall be pitched down to
provide drainage.
   C.   Outlet Boxes: Outlet boxes shall be cast type with threaded hubs.
   D.   Threaded Connections: Threaded connections shall be made at boxes and
couplings within fifteen feet (15') of any pool outlet box (pressure connectors
are not acceptable).
   E.   Conductors: Conductors shall be approved for wet locations.
   F.   Fixtures:
      1.   Fixtures shall be Underwriters Laboratory approved for submersible
use when installed within the pool.
      2.   Fixtures shall be approved for wet locations when installed closely
adjacent to the pool.
      3.   Each fixture shall be grounded by means of a grounding conductor
which shall extend from the source (cut out cabinet or distribution cabinet) to
each fixture. All rails and diving boards shall be grounded.
   G.   Submersible Lighting: Submersible lighting for swimming pools,
reflector pools and display fountains shall be grounded by the following:
      1.   The voltage shall not exceed twelve (12) volts.
      2.   Step down transformers shall be used in conjunction with the
lighting and shall be remotely located from the units they supply. Overcurrent
protection shall be provided for both the primary and secondary windings.
      3.   A main disconnect shall be installed on the primary feed to the
transformer, also the transformer shall be properly grounded. (Ords. 66-23-62,
84-13-34)
6-12-5: MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   All swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition by either filtering or refilling at periodic intervals and all
equipment shall be maintained in a satisfactory operating condition. Any
swimming pool that does not have a filtration system shall be emptied weekly.
   B.   The water shall be maintained in a proper condition through the use of
an appropriate chemical treatment.
   C.   All pools shall be subject to inspection by the duly designated village
officials at such times as the village shall deem necessary and prudent. (Ord.
10-23-52)
CHAPTER 13
SOUND CONTROL
SECTION:
6-13-1: Definitions
6-13-2: Standards Adopted
6-13-3: Sound Control Regulations
6-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used in applying the provisions of this
Chapter:
APPROVED SOUND LABORATORY: A sound laboratory which conforms to all ASTM
requirements for facilities, staffing and testing procedures using ASTM
standards and is approved by the Village.
DETACHED SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: Any single-family dwelling which is separated
from adjacent buildings by six feet (6') or more.
FLANKING SOUND: Sound which is transmitted into a dwelling unit from other
dwelling units or common areas within the building by paths other than directly
through the rated partition of floor- ceiling assembly except from the outside
exterior wall of the dwelling unit.
IMPACT INSULATION CLASS (IIC): A single figure rating for floor-ceiling
constructions which has been determined by tests conducted in an approved sound
laboratory according to ASTM E492-73T.
SOUND TRANSMISSION CLASS (STC): A single figure rating for floor-ceiling and
interior partition construction which has been determined by tests conducted in
an approved sound laboratory according to ASTM E90-70 and as defined by ASTM
E413-73. (Ord. 75-27-105)
6-13-2: STANDARDS ADOPTED:
The following standards are hereby adopted by reference, three (3) copies of
which shall be and remain on file in the office of the Clerk, and shall be used
in applying the provisions of this Chapter:
   A.   ASTM E 90-70, "Laboratory Measurement of Airborne Sound Transmission
Loss of Building Partitions".
   B.   ASTM E336-71, "Measurement of Airborne Sound Insulation in Buildings".
   C.   ASTM E413-73, "Determination of Sound Transmission Class".
   D.   ASTM E492-73T, "Laboratory Measurement of Impact Sound Transmission
Through Floor- Ceiling Assemblies Using the Tapping Machine".
   E.   ASTM E497-73T, "Installation of Fixed Partitions of Light Frame Type
for the Purpose of Conserving Their Sound Insulation Efficiency". (Ord. 75-27-
105; 1985 Code)
6-13-3: SOUND CONTROL REGULATIONS:
The following sound control provisions shall apply for partitions and floor-
ceiling assemblies between dwelling units:
   A.   General: In buildings where persons may be residents, permanently or
temporarily, airborne sound control for partition assemblies, and airborne and
impact sound control for floor-ceiling assemblies shall be provided, where
these assemblies separate dwelling units, efficiency dwelling units, light
housekeeping rooms, guest and patient rooms, or similar residential uses, from
each other and between all such residential units and other common use spaces,
such as interior public corridors, stairwells, lobbies, service areas, garages,
commercial areas and all building mechanical equipment rooms or systems.
   B.   Partitions: Partition and wall assemblies shall have a minimum sound
transmission class of not less than fifty (50) (STC-50). Partition and wall
assemblies which have been tested and rated by an approved sound testing
laboratory shall be considered as meeting the requirement of this Section
providing that the assembly is not compromised by penetrations or flanking
sound transmission (ASTM E 497-73T) in field construction.
Penetrations of partitions and walls shall be limited to the following and
shall be protected as provided.
      1.   Entrance doors from interior corridor, provided the door and/or jam
is equipped with a perimeter seal and the doorway has a sealed threshold. The
door shall be at least a one and three-quarter inch (13/4") solid core door.
      2.   Required electrical outlet boxes and bathroom cabinets, provided
they are installed in accordance with the recommendations of ASTM E497-73T or
are installed and separated (not back to back) in a manner that will not result
in lowering the required STC rating of the partition.
      3.   Ventilation/exhaust ducts in the corridor partition or common to
more than one residential unit in party walls, provided the ducts are lined,
insulated, located or specially designed to maintain the required STC partition
rating.
      4.   The installation of bathtubs against metal or wood framed separation
partitions is not permitted unless the water-resistant wallboard is extended
behind each tub as recommended in ASTM E497-73T.
      5.   All joints at the perimeter of separation partitions and at the
perimeter of penetration openings, which are not sealed, shall be sealed with a
nonhardening, permanently resilient acoustical caulking compound.
   C.   Floor-Ceiling Assemblies: Floor-ceiling assemblies shall have a minimum
sound transmission class not less than fifty (50) (STC-50) and shall have an
impact insulation class of not less than fifty (50) (IIC-50). Floor- ceiling
assemblies which have been tested and rated by an approved sound testing
laboratory shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this Section,
providing that the assembly is not compromised by penetrations or flanking
sound transmission (ASTM E497-73T).
      1.   Carpeting and pad are required as the finish floor covering in all
common interior corridors and hallways (stairwells are optional) and for the
floors in the individual residential units except for kitchen and bathroom
floors. Kitchens and bathrooms of residential units as well as care facility
floors may use carpeting if the carpeting is readily cleanable with normal
cleaning products or may be of tile if underlayed with an approved design
assembly which meets the required STC and IIC.
      2.   Penetrations of the ceiling, in an approved floor-ceiling assembly,
such as lighting fixtures shall be protected with insulation and the perimeter
of the opening shall be sealed with a nonhardening, permanently resilient
acoustical caulking compound.
   D.   Mechanical Penetrations: All conduits, ducts, vents and pipes within
the required partition or floor-ceiling assembly which may be in structural
contact with more than one residential unit shall be isolated from the
structure at support points by means of resilient mounts designed to provide
acoustical isolation. All openings through which conduits, ducts, vents and
pipes pass shall have the excess openings filled and sealed with a nonhardening
permanently resilient, acoustical caulking compound.
   E.   Approvals: All partition and floor-ceiling assembly ratings (STC and
IIC), sound control designs and various materials to be used to conform with
these requirements shall receive prior approval from the Director of Office of
Quality Control. (Ords. 75-27-105, 81-12-19)
CHAPTER 14
FLOOD CONTROL AND PROTECTION
SECTION:
6-14-1: Definitions
6-14-2: General Flood Plain Regulations
6-14-3: Flood Hazard and Damage Prevention
6-14-3-1: Scope, Compliance With Other Regulations
6-14-3-2: Maps and Profiles
6-14-3-3: Streams and Floodwater Runoff Channels and Basins
6-14-3-4: Highwater Elevations
6-14-3-5: Bench Mark System
6-14-3-6: Subdivision and Improvement Regulations
6-14-3-7: Zoning Regulations
6-14-3-8: Building Regulations
6-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
FLOOD BASE ELEVATION: That elevation of the highest flood of record, determined
by the Director of Office of Quality Control's record of the elevations of the
highest flood at locations indicated on the flood plain map of the Village on
file in the office of said Director. Flood base elevations at intermediate
locations shall be interpolated along the watercourse between the two (2)
nearest flood base elevations, one each upstream and downstream. The
controlling flood base elevation for any building site shall be the same as the
flood base elevation at the nearest point of the watercourse as measured on a
line perpendicular to the direction of the watercourse.
FLOOD PLAIN: That continuous land area adjacent to a watercourse, whose
elevation is equal to or below the flood base elevation, including any land
which is surrounded on more than one-half (1/2) its perimeter by land having an
elevation equal to or lower than the flood base elevation.
FLOOD RESERVOIR: A ponding area created for the purpose of impounding flood
waters and alleviating flood damage which might result from manmade fills.
(Ords. 67-16-37, 81-12-19)
6-14-2: GENERAL FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS:
   A.   Purpose, Applicability of Provisions: The flood plain shall be subject
to flood plain regulations as established by the Village President and Board of
Trustees and set forth in this Chapter, the Subdivision Title of this Code 1
or other applicable Village ordinances. Said regulations will guide development
in order to promote the public health, safety and welfare through flood
regulations; provided however, that the provisions of this Chapter shall not
apply to existing subdivisions or commercial and/or industrial developments,
pertaining to the minimum elevations of streets, lots and structure foundations
which have been constructed prior to November 22, 1966.
   B.   Building Elevation: No new or existing building or structure shall be
erected or moved within a flood plain unless the lowest floor including the
basement floor is at an elevation which is not less than twenty four inches
(24") above the flood base elevation for the site; provided however, that
basement floors may be erected below such elevation when the top of any
basement wall or the bottom of any opening therein is not less than twenty four
inches (24") above such elevation and the construction of such basement floors
and walls complies with the requirements of this Title.
   C.   Ground Elevation: The elevation of the ground for a minimum distance of
twenty five feet (25') immediately surrounding any building or structure
erected or moved within a flood plain shall be at an elevation which is not
less than twelve inches (12") above the flood base elevation for the site and
shall extend in width not less than twenty five feet (25') at or above said
elevation to a public street or access way.
   D.   Design of Public Ways: The elevation of the finished surface at the
center line of any new street constructed within a flood plain shall be not
less than twelve inches (12") above the flood base elevation for the area. The
design of such streets shall be such that the normal direction of course of
drainage or runoff through the area is not interrupted.
   E.   Alternative Methods of Flood Control: The Village President and Board
of Trustees may, upon the recommendation of the Director of Office of Quality
Control, authorize any alternate method of flood control and storm water
drainage other than that specified herein, provided such alternate method shall
be in harmony with the purposes and intent express ed in this Chapter and be as
effective as the measures provided herein.
   F.   Compliance with Provisions: Upon compliance with the requirements of
this Chapter, the Village President and Board of Trustees will, upon request of
the affected property owner, authorize the Director of Office of Quality
Control or the Village Clerk to issue a certificate of compliance. (Ords. 67-
16-37, 81-12-19)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 5 of this Municipal Code.
6-14-3: FLOOD HAZARD AND DAMAGE PREVENTION:
6-14-3-1: SCOPE, COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   This Section amends and supplements the following ordinances:
      1.   Oak Lawn Subdivision Control Ordinance (Title 5 of this Municipal
Code).
      2.   Comprehensive Amendment of the Oak Lawn Zoning Ordinance (Title 4 of
this Municipal Code).
      3.   Oak Lawn Building Code (Chapter 1 of this Title).
   B.   The provisions of this Section further regulate and restrict:
      1.   The subdivision, layout, and improvement of land, including
drainage, underground utilities and service facilities.
      2.   The excavating, filling and grading of lots and other parcels and
areas of flood plains, the storing of certain materials thereon, stream and
other floodwater runoff channels, and detention ponds and basins.
      3.   The location, construction and elevation of buildings and other
structures and parts and appurtenances thereof, and the drainage of parking and
other paved lots or areas.
   C.   Before starting any of the work regulated by this Section, an applicant
shall comply with the requirements set forth in the aforementioned ordinances
with respect to submission and approval of preliminary and final subdivision
plats, improvement plans, building and zoning permits, inspections, appeals and
similar matters, along with those set forth in this Chapter and as required by
State statute and regulations of any department of the State. (Ord. 68-28-91)
6-14-3-2: MAPS AND PROFILES:
In reviewing submittals for sewer permits, the Village will base its review on
the highwater elevations and limits of the one hundred (100) year flood as
established by the most recent and best available data. If the one hundred
(100) year flood information is not available, the review will be based on the
flood of record data. The data which will be used by the Village is listed
below in descending order of overall accuracy, completeness, and currentness.
When data of higher order becomes available, data of lower order will not be
used.
HUD Flood Insurance Studies (FIS), if certified by the Illinois Department of
Transportation, Division of Water Resources (IDOT-DWR).
IDOT-DWR Regulatory Floodplain Maps and Profiles.
Soil Conservation Service-Metropolitan Sanitary District of Greater Chicago
(SCS-MSDGC) Floodwater Management Plans, using the "without project" data shown
therein.
Other detailed one hundred (100) year flood studies, if certified by IDOT-DWR.
HUD Flood Hazard Boundary Maps (FHBM) and Approximate FIS Data.
USGS Maps of Floodprone Areas.
USGS-NIPC Hydrologic Investigation Atlases (Floods of Record).
When either HUD Flood Hazard Boundary Maps or the USGS Maps of Floodprone Areas
are used to determine the limits of the flood plain, then regulatory highwater
elevations shall be those of the flood of record. (Ords. 68-28-91, 79-35-78)
6-14-3-3: STREAMS AND FLOODWATER RUNOFF CHANNELS AND BASINS:
The maps and profiles enumerated in Section
6-14-3-2 above shall be used in establishing the following:
   A.   Location, Identifications: Locations of certain existing streams and
other floodwater runoff channels and detention ponds and basins and names or
other identifying designations thereof. Such locations shall be subject to ap
proved straightenings and relocations as provided for in this Section.
   B.   Floodway Widths: Widths or limits of flood ways on or along the streams
and channels established herein. A floodway consists of the deeper parts of the
total flood plain, including the trench or channel and adjoining parts, which
are reasonably required for the downstream movement of floodwater or flood
flows as distinguished from the shallower parts of the flood plain where the
speed of flow or current is lessened by the friction of bottom materials and
growth; while the function of the flood plain is essentially that of slow-
moving storage of flood water.
   C.   Areas of Waterway Openings: Minimum areas of waterway openings to be
provided whenever new culverts, sewers or bridges are built at various points
on the streams and channels are to be determined by using the watershed areas
and characteristics as shown on the maps and profiles in Section
6-14-3-2 hereof. (Ord. 68-28-91)
6-14-3-4:HIGHWATER ELEVATIONS:
   A.   Profiles Adopted: Profiles of floods for the various streams and
tributaries as shown on the maps and reports cited in Section
6-14-3-2 hereof as such other interpretive maps for specific areas which the
Director of Office of Quality Control has prepared or may prepare in the
future, accompanying and identified as a part of this Section, are incorporated
herein for the purpose of establishing highwater elevations on or along the
streams, channels and basins established in Section
6-14-3-2 above.
   B.   Definitions:
      High-water elevation: The highest level of floodwater observed during
past floods or that may reasonably be expected.
      Flood plain: Such land whose surface elevation is lower than the
highwater elevation established under subsection A above.
   C.   Datum: The highwater and other elevations shown on the profiles are in
feet above mean sea level datum at New York City, or, when so noted on the
profile, in feet above the stream bed of the stream or channel or above some
other described point or mark in or near the channel.
   D.   Applicable Elevation: For the purposes of these regulations, the
highwater elevation applicable to a building, building site or part of a lot,
parcel or other area of land shall be the elevation established for 1) the
adjoining or nearest stream or other floodwater runoff channel measured at
right angles to the general direction of flow in the stream or channel, or 2)
the adjoining or nearest flood water detention pond or basin, whichever is the
highest. Care shall be taken to interpret the map properly in the areas which
are subject to "sheet flow" instead of general inundation. In case of dispute
over the interpretation of the map elevations, the decision of the Director of
Office of Quality Control shall govern.
   E.   Higher Future Floods: The establishment by this Section of highwater
elevations for the purpose of regulating future development in order to lessen
or avoid hazards to persons and damage to property from floodwaters is not
intended nor shall it be construed to imply or assure owners, occupants or
prospective purchasers of property that no flood of higher elevation will ever
occur in the future. (Ords. 68-28-91, 81-12-19)
6-14-3-5: BENCH MARK SYSTEM:
There is hereby established a system of points or marks of known elevations
above the mean sea datum at New York City (U.S.G.S.) Datum from which
elevations shall hereafter be taken by engineers, surveyors, architects and
contractors when making topographical surveys and maps and setting grades and
elevations for buildings, pavements, drainage facilities and other structures
or work publicly built or regulated by this Village.
These bench marks shall be clearly shown on any pertinent drawings submitted to
the Village. It shall be the responsibility of the petitioner to establish and
certify these points unless already established by the Village. (Ord. 68-28-91)
6-14-3-6: SUBDIVISION AND IMPROVEMENT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Required Information: Accompanying the preliminary plans of each
proposed subdivision submitted for preliminary approval, there shall be
furnished the following information and data:
      1.   Contour Map: A (2' minimum) interval contour map of the land to be
subdivided or improved and such adjoining land whose topography may affect the
layout or drainage of the subdivision or improvement. On such map shall be
shown the following:
         a.   The flow lines of streams and other floodwater runoff channels,
their normal shorelines and the shoreline of the established highwater
elevations.
         b.   Normal shorelines of lakes, ponds, swamps and other detention
basins; the shoreline of highwater elevations established under Section
6-14-3-4; and inflow and outflow, if any.
         c.   Farm drains, inlets and outfalls.
         d.   Storm, sanitary and combined sewers and outfalls.
         e.   Septic tank systems and outlets, if any.
         f.   Seeps, springs, flowing and other wells.
      2.   Channel Profiles: Profile drawings of each stream, channel, pond and
basin showing elevations of the following:
         a.   The stream bed or flow line.
         b.   Channel banks, if any.
         c.   Waterway openings of existing culverts and bridges within and
near the tract.
         d.   Size and elevation of sewer and drain outlets into the stream,
channel or basin.
         e.   The highwater elevations established under Section
6-14-3-4 of this Chapter.
Where a limited number of highwater observations or determinations have been
established on a stream or channel, the subdivider's engineer will, in drawing
his profiles, extend or project the established highwater elevation upstream or
downstream from a single elevation approximately parallel to the stream bed or
flow line as surveyed by him.
If a subdivider believes that the established highwater elevation or profile
unreasonably restricts the layout of his proposed subdivision or its
development, or that an error has been made in its establishment, he may appeal
to the Appeals and Review Board for a review thereof, and for a recommendation
to the Village Board for an amendment to the elevations. No such amendment
shall be made until a duly advertised public hearing on the amendment has been
held on the proposed amendment before the Zoning and Planning Commission.
      3.   Comprehensive Drainage Plan: A comprehensive drainage plan, first in
preliminary form, designed to handle safely the flood water runoff following
the heavier rainstorms. The plans shall provide or be accompanied by maps or
other descriptive material showing the following:
         a.   The extent and area of each water shed tributary to the drainage
channels in the subdivision.
         b.   The street storm sewers and other storm drains to be built, the
basis of their design, the outfall and outlet locations and elevations and the
functioning of the drains during highwater conditions.
         c.   The parts of the proposed street storm sewer system along which
overhead sewers in buildings are required to prevent sewage backups in
basements during the heavier rainstorms.
         d.   The parts of the proposed street system where pavements are
planned to be depressed sufficiently to convey or temporarily store overflow
from storm sewers and over-the-curb runoff resulting from the heavier
rainstorms and the outlets for such overflow.
         e.   Existing streams and floodwater runoff channels to be maintained,
enlarged, altered otherwise and eliminated; and new channels to be constructed,
their locations, cross sections and profiles.
         f.   Existing culverts, storm sewers and bridges, drainage areas,
elevations and adequacy of waterway openings; and new culverts and bridges to
be built, their materials, elevations, waterway openings and basis of design.
         g.   Existing detention or retention ponds and basins to be
maintained, enlarged, altered otherwise, and new ponds or basins to be built
with dams, and their design.
   B.   Design of Improvements: The following rules shall govern the design of
the improvement with respect to the drainage of floodwater runoff.
      1.   Design: Streets, blocks, depths of lots, parks and other public
grounds shall be located and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and
utilize natural streams, channels and detention basins, including wherever
possible, the larger streams and flood plains within parks or other public
grounds.
      2.   Channel Straightening: Sharply meandering streams or channels may be
partly straightened and minor changes made in other channels, subject to
approval of the Village Board provided:
         a.   The floodway dimensions of the stream or channel are maintained;
         b.   The volume of floodwater storage outside the floodway is not
reduced; and
         c.   The changes and channels comply with other provisions of this
subsection.
      3.   Lesser Channel Locations: Generally acceptable locations of the
lesser floodwater runoff channels in the design of the subdivision include the
following:
         a.   In a depressed median of a double-roadway street or parkway,
provided the median is wide enough to permit flat side slopes along the
floodway.
         b.   Centered on the rear lot lines in a block, or entirely within the
rear yards of a single row of lots or parcels, provided in either case, the
lots are deep enough to permit flat side slopes along the floodway and a
building site above the established highwater elevation plus one foot (1') on
the front part of the lot.
In each of the foregoing cases, a floodway easement at least twenty feet (20')
wide shall be provided and shown on the plat. The easement shall permit
necessary public channel maintenance and improvement work and access of
equipment therefor but shall prohibit buildings and other obstructing
structures thereon by the owner. This easement shall be specifically designated
as a drainage and utility easement on the documents to be recorded.
      4.   Uppermost Reaches of Drainage Channels: The smaller uppermost
reaches of the drainage channels and swales forming the natural drainage system
near the watershed divide may be relocated or eliminated and incorporated into
the planned system of storm sewers and/or open channels upon a showing that the
system is adequate and can safely handle the floodwater runoff following the
heavier rainstorms.
      5.   Within-Block Drainage: A continuous easement shall be provided along
rear lot lines and drawn on the subdivision plat within which utility lines and
drainage may be located and maintained but on which no accessory buildings may
be located or built. The utility-drainage easement shall be at least ten feet
(10') wide, five feet (5') on each lot. This easement shall be specifically
designated as a drainage easement and utility easement on the documents to be
recorded.
      6.   Storm Sewer Outfalls: Storm sewer outfalls shall be so designed, by
reason of elevation of the invert, pumping or otherwise, that when the
receiving stream is in full flood, the storm sewer will continue to drain the
area it is designed to serve. If this is not possible, street grades shall have
to be such that the storm water will be able to flow continuously to the
receiving stream or outfall. Continuous positive street drainage shall be
provided if at all possible.
      7.   Streets Designed as Channels: Cross-sections and grades of streets
shall be designed to temporarily store and convey the overflow from storm
sewers and over-the-curb runoff and be provided with adequate outlets for safe
disposal of such overflow. The street cross-sections shall provide a lot grade
for each adjoining building a minimum of one and one-half feet (11/2') higher
than the crown of the pavement, and the minimum sill elevation of any opening
in the outer foundation walls of such buildings shall be at least one and one-
half (11/2) feet above the highest highwater as shown on the maps cited in
Section
6-14-3-2 of this Chapter.
      8.   Flood Plain Lots: Land lying wholly or partly in a flood plain may
be laid out and platted as building lots or parcels, provided a building site,
not lower than the applicable highwater elevation plus one foot (1'):
         a.   Exists on the front part of the lot or parcel; or
         b.   Will be built up during execution of the subdivision improvement
plan through general excavation and filling; or
         c.   Can be provided with excavation taken from within the area of the
lot or parcel when it is built upon.
      9.   Bridge and Culvert Waterway Openings: Waterway openings of bridges
and culverts hereafter built over streams or floodwater runoff channels shall
be designed with a waterway opening at least as large as necessary to
accommodate the drainage areas shown on the maps cited in Section
6-14-3-2 and established under Section
6-14-3-3 of this Chapter.
      10.   Retention Basin Dams: Dams constructed to form floodwater retention
ponds, basins or lakes shall be designed to maintain a permanent low-water pool
and a temporary floodwater storage pool and shall be provided with outlets
which may be set or regulated to detain or empty slowly the storage pool
following periods of runoff according to the capacity of the downstream channel
to carry the flow safely. The design and construction of retention ponds,
basins or lakes shall be such as to insure proper water circulation and to
prevent stagnation.
      11.   Sanitary Manholes: Sanitary manholes constructed within flood plain
areas must have rim elevations thirty inches (30") above the flood plain crest
or must be provided with watertight, lock-type covers. (Ords. 68-28-91, 81-36-
77, 93-9-24, 19-16-65, 19-16-66)
6-14-3-7: ZONING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Building On and Use of Flood Plains: Except as regulated by this
Chapter or other ordinances and State statutes, any building or structure may
be placed or erected on and storage or other use may be made of the flood plain
that is permitted by the regulations of the zoning district in which such flood
plain is located.
   B.   Preservation of Floodways and Detention Basins: All buildings, other
structures, inoperable motor vehicles and similar machinery, and fills of any
kind of materials hereafter made, placed or erected on the flood plain shall be
set back at least the distances required to preserve and maintain open and
unobstructed:
      1.   The widths of the floodways established for streams and other
floodwater runoff channels; and
      2.   The boundaries or limits of floodwater detention or retention ponds
and basins, as established in Section
6-14-3-3 of this Chapter and as otherwise regulated herein.
   C.   Open Storage of Materials:
      1.   Floatable Materials: Logs, tree stumps and branches, lumber, lumber
products and other floatable material may be placed, displayed or stored in the
open on flood plain land where permitted by the zoning district regulations
applicable to such land, and by State statutes; provided, the area so used is
enclosed by an open wire fence properly anchored to restrain such materials
from floating downstream during times of high water.
      2.   Other Materials: The open storage or display on flood plain land of
inoperable motor vehicles and similar machinery and other nonfloatable
materials and products, where permitted by the regulations of the zoning
district applicable to such land and by State statutes, shall be considered the
same as the placement of fill on the flood plain and shall be subject to the
regulations of this Chapter relating to making fills. (Ord. 68-28-91)
6-14-3-8: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Wall Openings: A door sill, window sill, or the base of any other
opening in the outer foundation walls of a main building or structure shall be
constructed at an elevation not lower than the established highwater elevation
plus one and one-half feet (11/2'), unless surrounded by a watertight areaway
whose top is not lower than the aforesaid minimum elevation.
   B.   Outer Walls, Basement Floors and Areaways: The outer walls, basement
floor and areaways of a building which encloses open space that is below the
established highwater elevation plus one and one-half feet (11/2'), shall be
constructed of concrete masonry materials up to the minimum elevation, shall be
watertight and shall be designed to withstand the hydrostatic pressure caused
by floodwater standing at highwater elevation adjoining the building site.
   C.   Construction Regulations for Drainage: The following regulations shall
apply to all construction within the Village:
      1.   Overhead Sewers: Basement or low-level gravity building drain
connections to the street storm sewer or combined sewer are prohibited and
overhead sewers are required. Where basements are built, a sump and sump pump
shall be installed to lift low-level waste water to the overhead sewer leading
to the street sewer.
      2.   Roof and Foundation Drainage:
         a.   Drainage from roofs and paved parking or other areas smaller than
forty thousand (40,000) square feet and from foundation footing drains shall
not be connected directly into sewers. Sanitary sewer service connections and
extensions shall be permitted in accordance with current Metropolitan Sanitary
District regulations.
         b.   Drainage from roofs and paved parking or other areas larger than
forty thousand (40,000) square feet along any street shall be stored
temporarily on the premises in detention ponds on roofs or at ground level or
otherwise, which storage areas shall be equipped with outlets that may be set
or regulated to empty slowly the stored runoff water into storm sewers or
surface channels according to their ability to handle the flow safely.
         c.   Roof drainage through downspouts or otherwise shall not be
connected directly to any street or public sewer (storm, sanitary or combined)
but shall be directed away from the building onto the lawn or yard or into a
seepage well.
         d.   Foundation footing drainage shall not be disposed of in a street
or public sanitary or combined sewer, but may be disposed of in a seepage well
or pumped out away from the building onto the lawn or yard.
      3.   Sanitary Manholes: Sanitary manholes constructed within flood plain
areas must have rim elevations thirty inches (30") above the flood plain crest
or be provided with watertight, lock-type covers.
   D.   Building Site: Each main building or structure shall have or be
provided with a building site or yard that is not lower than the established
highwater elevation plus one foot (1') and extends outside the building walls
at least five feet (5'). The finished grade or surface of this protective yard
shall be sloped to drain away from the walls for a distance of at least five
feet (5') (Ord. 68-28-91)
ARTICLE A. DEVELOPMENT IN SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
SECTION:
6-14A-1: Purpose
6-14A-2: Definitions
6-14A-3: How To Use This Article
6-14A-4: Duties Of The Enforcement Officials
6-14A-5: Base Flood Elevation
6-14A-6: Occupation And Use Of Flood Prone Areas
6-14A-7: Occupation And Use Of Identified Floodways
6-14A-8: Occupation And Use Of SFHA Where Floodways Are Not Identified
6-14A-9: Permitting Requirements Applicable To All Flood Plain Areas
6-14A-10: Other Development Requirements
6-14A-11: Variances
6-14A-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
6-14A-13: Penalty
6-14A-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
6-14A-15: Separability
6-14A-1: PURPOSE:
This Article is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this Village
by the 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-8 and 5/11-
31-2.
The purpose of this Article is to maintain this Village's eligibility in the
National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize potential losses due to periodic
flooding, including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary expenditures
for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affects the public health, safety and general welfare; and to
preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve economic and
natural values and provide for the wise utilization of water and related land
resources. This Article is adopted in order to accomplish the following
specific purposes:
   A.   To meet the requirements of 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18(g), an
Act in Relation to the Regulation of the Rivers, Lakes and Streams of the State
of Illinois, approved June 10, 1911, as amended.
   B.   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or drainage
hazards to others or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion.
   C.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage.
   D.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding.
   E.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations.
   F.   To make Federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the Village by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   G.   To comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program, codified as 44 CFR 59-79, as amended.
   H.   To protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and
water resources.
   I.   To preserve the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
watercourses and flood plains and to protect water quality and aquatic
habitats.
   J.   To preserve the natural characteristics of stream corridors in order to
moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefit and enhance community and economic
development. (Ord. 95-20-81)
6-14A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Article, the following definitions are adopted:
ACT: An Act in relation to the regulation of rivers, lakes and streams of the
State of Illinois, 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5 et seq.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
APPROPRIATE USE: Only uses of the regulatory floodway that are permissible and
will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed are
as specified in subsection 6-14A-7D of this Article.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
frequency flood event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location
is as defined in Section
6-14A-5 of this Article.
BUILDING: A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by walls
and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a manufactured
home, mobile home, or a prefabricated building. This term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days.
CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash or natural or man-made drainage-way which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or ground water flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimension or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, rip-rapping, or other armoring, widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of bottom or woody vegetation.
Channel modification does not include the clearing of dead or dying vegetation,
debris or trash from the channel. Channelization is a severe form of channel
modification; a typical relocation of the existing channel (e.g.,
straightening).
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off site floodwater elevations and flows.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A REGULATORY FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Preconstruction
approved by DNR and federal emergency management agency of a proposed change to
the floodway map. This preconstruction approval, pursuant to this article,
gives assurances to the property owner that once an appropriate use is
constructed according to permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as
previously agreed, upon review and acceptance of as built plans.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that the
federal emergency management agency will revise base flood elevations, flood
insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or floodway as shown on an effective
flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map, once the as built plans
are submitted and approved.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that passes
through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water surface
elevation.
DNR: Illinois department of natural resources.
DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel, including on stream lakes, and that portion
of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse as designated by IDNR/
DWR, which is needed to store and convey the existing 100-year frequency flood
discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to the loss of
flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a ten percent (10%) increase in
velocities.
   A.   The floodways are designated for Oak Lawn Ditch, Melvina ditch, Stony
Creek (west) on map number 17031 and panel(s) 606, 607, 608, 609, and 628 dated
August 19, 2008, respectively, of the countywide flood insurance rate map for
Cook County prepared by the federal emergency management agency, and for Oak
Lawn Ditch, Melvina Ditch, Stony Creek (west) on the regulatory floodplain map
prepared by IDNR/DWR and dated August 19, 2008. When two (2) floodway maps
exist for a waterway, the more restrictive floodway limit shall prevail;
   B.   The floodways for those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are
within the one and one-half (11/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
village of Oak Lawn and may be annexed into the village of Oak Lawn are
designated for Stony Creek east and west branch on map number 17031 and panel
(s) 617, 636 dated August 19, 2008, respectively, of the countywide flood
insurance rate map for Cook County prepared by the federal emergency management
agency and for Stony Creek east and west branch on the regulatory floodplain
map prepared by IDNR/DWR and dated August 19, 2008;
   C.   To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the designated
floodway boundary should be scaled off the designated floodway map and located
on a site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation
is needed to determine the exact location of the designated floodway boundary,
IDNR/DWR should be contacted for the interpretation.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
   A.   Construction, reconstruction, repair or placement of a building or any
addition to a building.
   B.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days. If the travel trailer or recreational vehicle is on
a site for less than one hundred eighty (180) days, it must be fully licensed
and ready for highway use.
   C.   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
storage of equipment or materials, or similar projects.
   D.   Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site.
   E.   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
   F.   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams or culverts;
channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of materials;
deposit of solid or liquid waste.
   G.   Any other activity of man that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation removal.
Development does not include maintenance of existing buildings and facilities,
such as reroofing or resurfacing of roads when there is no increase in
elevation, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do
not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATES: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify the elevation to which a building has been
elevated.
EROSION: The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or wave
action.
EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS: Organizations which are exempt from this article per
Illinois Compiled Statutes including state, federal or local units of
government, such as the metropolitan water reclamation district.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before April 1, 1990.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency and its regulations at 44 CFR-59-79,
effective as of October 1, 1986. This incorporation does not include any later
edition or amendments.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal wave, or the unusual
and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FIRM): A map prepared by the federal emergency
management agency that depicts the special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or
may not depict floodways.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood plus one foot (1') of freeboard at any given location in the
SFHA.
FLOODPLAIN: That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100- year frequency flood
elevation. Floodplains may also include detached special flood hazard areas,
ponding areas, etc. The floodplain is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA).
   A.   The floodplains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the village
of Oak Lawn that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood. The SFHAs of the village of Oak Lawn are generally identified
as such on map number 17031 and panel(s) 606, 607, 608, 609, 628 dated August
19, 2008, respectively, of the countywide flood insurance rate map for Cook
County prepared by the federal emergency management agency;
   B.   The SFHAs for those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within
the one and one-half (11/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction for the village
of Oak Lawn and may be annexed into the village of Oak Lawn are designated for
Stony Creek east and west branch of map number 17031 and panel(s) 617, 636
dated August 19, 2008, respectively, of the countywide flood insurance rate map
for Cook County prepared by the federal emergency management agency.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATES: A form published by the federal emergency
management agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, unknown localized
conditions, wave actions and unpredictable effects such as those caused by ice
or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the State Inventory of Historic Places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analysis which determines
expected flood flow and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a specific
structure is not in a 100-year flood zone; amends the effective flood hazard
boundary map and FIRM.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries, or
floodways as shown on an effective flood hazard boundary map or FIRM.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
manufactured home does not include recreational vehicle.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MITIGATION: Mitigation includes those measures necessary to minimize the
negative effects which floodplain development activities might have on the
public health, safety and welfare. Examples of mitigation include compensatory
storage, soil erosion and sediment control and channel restoration.
NGVD: National geodetic vertical datum of 1929. Reference surface set by the
national geodetic survey deduced from a continental adjustment of all existing
adjustments in 1929.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after November 26,
1991.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM): The point on the bank or shore up to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures which include a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing
and proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall
preclude the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or part,
of a flood control project by persons or parties who are not public agencies.
PUBLICLY NAVIGABLE WATERS: All streams and lakes capable of being navigated by
watercraft.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use
placed on a site for less than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the state of Illinois,
under the Illinois land surveyor's act 1 .
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the state of
Illinois, under the Illinois professional engineering act 2 .
REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Development activities which do not result
in any increase in the outside dimensions of a building or any change to the
dimensions of a structure.
RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY: A retention facility stores stormwater runoff
without a gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of
stormwater runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a
flood or storm.
RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek, intermittent
stream, ditch, on stream lake system or any other identified channel. This term
does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes, ponding areas, areas of
sheet flow, or other areas not subject to overbank flooding.
RUNOFF: The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
SEDIMENTATION: The processes that deposit soils, debris and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourse.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Any base flood area subject to flooding from
a river, creek, intermittent stream, ditch, or any other identified channel or
ponding and shown on a flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map as
zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99, AH, VO, V30, VE, V, M or E.
STRUCTURE: The results of a manmade change to the land constructed on or below
the ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building; installing a manufactured home on a
site; preparing a site for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer
on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure either: a) before the
improvement or repair is started, or b) if the structure has been damaged from
any source, and is being restored, before the damage occurred. This term
includes structures which were damaged, whereby the cost of restoring the
structure to its predamaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%)
of the market value before the damage occurred, regardless of the actual repair
work performed. For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either: a) any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions, or b) any alteration of
an "historic structure", provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as an "historical structure".
TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from a
narrow cross section to a wide cross section or vice versa. (Ords. 95-20-81,
00-17-47, 08-16-43)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.
6-14A-3: HOW TO USE THIS ARTICLE:
The director of the office of quality control shall be responsible for
fulfilling all of the duties listed in section
6-14A-4 of this article.
To fulfill those duties, the director of the office of quality control first
should use the criteria listed in section
6-14A-5 of this article, to determine whether the development site is located
within a floodplain. Once it has been determined that a site is located within
a floodplain, the director of the office of quality control must determine
whether the development site is within a flood fringe, a regulatory floodway,
or within an SFHA or floodplain on which no floodway has been identified. If
the site is within a flood fringe, the director of the office of quality
control shall require that the minimum requirements of section
6-14A-6 of this article be met. If the site is within a floodway, the director
of quality control shall require that the minimum requirements of section
6-14A-7 of this article be met. If the site is located within a SFHA or
floodplain for which no detailed study has been completed and approved, the
director of quality control shall require that the minimum requirements of
section
6-14A-8 of this article be met.
In addition, the general requirements of section
6-14A-9 of this article shall be met for all developments meeting the
requirements of section
6-14A-6,
6-14A-7 or
6-14A-8 of this article. The director of the office of quality control shall
assure that all subdivision proposals shall meet the requirements of section
6-14A-10 of this article.
If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the director of the office of
quality control shall review the requirements of section
6-14A-11 of this article to make sure they are met. Variations require
notification in accordance with title 2, chapter 1 of this code, regarding
notification by petitioner. In addition, the director of the office of quality
control shall complete the notification requirements.
In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in this
article, the director of the office of quality control may take any and all
actions as outlined in section
6-14A-13 of this article. (Ord. 95-20-81)
6-14A-4: DUTIES OF THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
The office of quality control shall be responsible for the general
administration and enforcement of this article which shall include the
following:
   A.   Determining The Floodplain Designation: Check all new development sites
to determine whether they are in a special flood hazard area (SFHA). If they
are in an SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway, flood fringe, or in a
floodplain on which a detailed study has not been conducted which drains more
than one square mile.
   B.   Professional Engineer Review: If the development site is within a
floodway or in a floodplain on which a detailed study has not been conducted
which drains more than one square mile, then the permit shall be referred to a
registered professional engineer (PE) under the employ or contract by the
village for review to ensure that the development meets the requirements of
section
6-14A-7 of this article. In the case of an appropriate use, the PE shall state
in writing that the development meets the requirements of section
6-14A-7 of this article.
   C.   Dam Safety Requirements: Ensure that a DNR dam safety permit has been
issued or a letter indicating no dam safety permit is required, if the proposed
development activity includes construction of a "dam" as defined in section
6-14A-2 of this article. Regulated dams may include weirs, restrictive culverts
or impoundment structures.
   D.   Other Permit Requirements: Ensure that any and all required federal,
state and local permits are received prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit.
   E.   Plan Review And Permit Issuance: Ensure that all development activities
within the SFHA's jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this
article and issue a floodplain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this article and other regulations of this community when the
development meets the conditions of this article.
   F.   Inspection Review: Inspect all development projects before, during and
after construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
that they comply with the provisions of this article.
   G.   Elevation And Floodproofing Certificates: Maintain in the permit files
an elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of a residential or nonresidential building or the
elevation to which a nonresidential building has been floodproofed, using a
floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject to section
6-14A-9 of this article for public inspection and provide copies of same.
   H.   Records For Public Inspection: Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and regulatory floodway maps, copies
of federal or state permit documents, variance documentation, conditional
letter of map review, letter of map revision, letter of map amendment, and "as
built" elevation and floodproofing or elevation and floodproofing certificates
for all building constructed subject to this article.
   I.   State Permit: Ensure that construction authorization has been granted
by the Illinois department of natural resources for all development projects
subject to sections
6-14A-7 and
6-14A-8 of this article, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated
to the village. However, the following review approvals are not delegated to
the village and shall require review or permits from DNR:
      1.   Organizations which are exempt from this article, as per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes;
      2.   Department of natural resource projects, dam or impoundment
structures as defined in section
6-14A-2 of this article, and all other state, federal or local units of
government projects, including projects of the village and county, except those
projects meeting the requirements of subsection 6-14A-7I of this article;
      3.   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per subsection 6-14A-7E5 of this article;
      4.   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to subsection 6-14A-
7E4 of this article;
      5.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in subsections 6-14A-7E1, E2 and E8 of this
article;
      6.   Permit issuance of structures within or over publicly navigable
rivers, lakes and streams;
      7.   Any changes in the base flood elevation or floodway location; and
      8.   Base flood elevation determinations where none now exist.
   J.   Cooperation With Other Agencies: Cooperate with state and federal
floodplain management agencies to improve base flood or 100-year frequency
flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this article.
Submit data to DNR and the federal emergency management agency for proposed
revisions of a regulatory map. Submit reports as required for the national
flood insurance program. Notify the federal emergency management agency of any
proposed amendments to this article.
   K.   Promulgate Regulations: Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary
to administer and enforce the provisions of this article, subject, however, to
the review and approval of DNR and FEMA for any article changes. (Ord. 95-20-
81)
6-14A-5: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This article's protection standard is based on the flood insurance study for
the village of Oak Lawn. If a base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood
elevation is not available for a particular site, then the protection standard
shall be according to the best existing data available in the Illinois state
water survey's floodplain information repository. When a party disagrees with
the best available data, he/she may finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace existing data with better data and submit it to the DNR and
FEMA.
   A.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
Oak Lawn Creek, Stony Creek (west), Melvina Ditch and Oak Lawn ditch, shall be
as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide flood insurance
study for Cook County prepared by the federal emergency management agency and
dated August 19, 2008, and such amendments to such study and maps as may be
prepared from time to time.
   B.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within the one and one-half
(11/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction or that may be as delineated on the
100-year flood profile in the countywide flood insurance study for Cook County
prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated August 19, 2008,
and such amendments or revisions to such study and maps as may be prepared from
time to time.
   C.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an AH zone or AO zone shall be that elevation delineated on the
flood insurance rate map of the village.
   D.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an A zone on the flood insurance rate map of the
village shall be according to the best existing data available in the Illinois
state water survey floodplain information repository. When no base flood or
100-year frequency flood elevation exists, the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall be determined from a backwater model,
such as HEC-11, WSP-2 or a dynamic model such as HIP. The flood flow used in
hydraulic models shall be obtained from a hydrologic model, such as HEC-1, TR-
20, or HIP, or by techniques presented in various publications prepared by the
United States geological survey for estimating peak flood discharges. Flood
flow should be based on anticipated future land use conditions in the watershed
as determined from adopted local and regional land use plans. Along any
watercourses draining more than one square mile, the above analyses shall be
submitted to DNR for approval; once approved it must be submitted to the
Illinois state water survey floodplain information repository for filing. For a
nonriverine SFHA, the base flood elevation shall be the historic flood of
record plus three feet (3'), unless calculated by a detailed engineering study
and approved by the Illinois state water survey. (Ords. 95-20-81, 00-17-47, 08-
16-43)
6-14A-6: OCCUPATION AND USE OF FLOOD PRONE AREAS:
Development in and/or filling of flood prone areas will only be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by
proper elevation and compensatory storage and other provisions of this article
are met. No use will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems. Developments located within flood prone areas
shall meet the requirements of Sections
6-14A-9 and
6-14A-10.E. of this Article.
   A.   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body
not exempted by state law shall commence any development in the SFHA without
first obtaining a development permit from the director of the office of quality
control.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a development permit shall be
made on a form provided by the office of quality control. The application shall
be accompanied by drawings of the site drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions and legal description for the property, and sealed by a licensed
engineer, architect or land surveyor; existing grade elevation in mean sea
level, 1929 adjustment datum or NGVD, and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling; the location and dimensions for all buildings and
additions to buildings. For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the
submitted plans and the development will be subject to the requirements of
section
6-14A-9 of this article.
   C.   Elevation Comparison: Upon receipt of a development permit application,
the director of the office of quality control shall compare the elevation of
the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
   D.   Obtaining Permits: The director of the office of quality control shall
be responsible for obtaining from the applicant, copies of all other local,
state and federal permits, approvals, or "permit-not-required" letters that may
be required for this type of activity. The director of the office of quality
control shall not issue a permit unless all other local, state and federal
permits have been obtained.
   E.   Preventing Increased Damages: No development in flood prone areas shall
create a threat to public health and safety.
   F.   Use Of Fill To Elevate Site: If fill is being used to elevate the site
above the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall
submit sufficient data and obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from FEMA for
the purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
   G.   Any placement of fill, structures, or other materials above grade in
the flood plain shall require compensatory storage equal to at least one and
five-tenths (1.5) times the volume of flood plain storage displaced and shall
be provided at the same incremental flood frequency elevation as the flood
storage displaced. Compensatory storage shall be operational prior to placement
of fill, structures, or other materials in the regulatory flood plain. Grading
in Special Management Areas shall be done in such a manner that the existing
flood plain storage is maintained at all times. (Ords. 95-20-81, 99-22-76, 00-
17-47, 22-14-49)
6-14A-7: OCCUPATION AND USE OF IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS:
This section applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site modification
or building modification within a regulatory floodway. The regulatory floodway
for Oak Lawn Ditch, Stony Creek (west) and Melvina Ditch shall be as delineated
on the regulatory floodway maps designated by DNR.
Only those uses and structures will be permitted which meet the criteria in
this section. All floodway modifications shall be the minimum necessary to
accomplish the purpose of the project. The development shall also meet the
requirements of section
6-14A-9 of this article.
   A.   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body
not exempted by state law shall commence any development in a floodway without
first obtaining a development permit from the director of the office of quality
control.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a development permit shall be
made on a form provided by the office of quality control. The application shall
include the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Site location (including legal description) of the property drawn to
scale, on the regulatory floodway map;
      3.   Name of stream or body of water affected;
      4.   Description of proposed activity;
      5.   Statement of purpose of proposed activity;
      6.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
      7.   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant;
      8.   Signature of applicant or the applicant's agent;
      9.   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other authorized
officer shall sign the application form;
      10.   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form; and
      11.   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign the
name of the trustee by him (her) as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit shall
be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust by
name and address and defining the respective interests therein.
      12.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as a
minimum:
         a.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow.
         b.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions, including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or
NGVD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, location of any channels and any existing or future access roads,
distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when proposed
construction is near a commercially navigable body of water), regulatory
floodway limit, flood plain limit, specifications and dimensions of any
proposed channel modifications, location and orientation of cross sections,
north arrow, and a graphic or numerical scale.
         c.   Cross section views of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical).
         d.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and re-vegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
         e.   A copy of the Regulatory Floodway Map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the regulatory floodway location.
      13.   Any and all other local, State and Federal permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development.
      14.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of subsection
6-14A-7D.
      15.   If the regulatory floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until DNR has indicated conditional
approval of the Regulatory Floodway Map change; no structures may be built
until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA.
      16.   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings of
the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing ground
elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed excavation or
filling and flood plain and floodway limits, sealed by a registered
professional engineer, or registered land surveyor; the location and dimensions
of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the
requirements of Section
6-14A-9 of this Article.
      17.   If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
         a.   A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed work;
         b.   A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative locations or
methods to accomplish the purpose of the proposed work;
         c.   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts the
project would have on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected;
         d.   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in subsection E4a of this Section would have on
the physical and biological conditions of the body of water affected;
         e.   An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project, considering
cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected.
   C.   The Director of the Office of Quality Control shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other local, State and Federal
permits and approvals that may be required for this type of activity. The
Director of the Office of Quality Control shall not issue the development
permit unless all required Federal and State permits have been obtained. A
registered professional engineer, under the employ or contract of the Village
shall review and approve applications reviewed under this Section.
   D.   Preventing Increased Damages And A List Of Appropriate Uses: The only
developments in a floodway which will be allowed are appropriate uses, which
will not cause a rise in the base flood elevation, and which will not create a
damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity, or be a
threat to public health and safety and welfare, or impair the natural
hydrologic and hydraulic function of the floodway or channel, or permanently
impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat.
Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as
called for in this Article. Only those appropriate uses listed in (92 Illinois)
Administrative Code 708 will be allowed. Appropriate uses do not include the
construction or placement of any new structures, fill, building additions,
building on stilts, fencing (including landscaping or planting designed to act
as a fence) and storage of materials except as specifically defined above 1  as
an appropriate use.
The approved appropriate uses are as follows:
      1.   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife;
      2.   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring access
to, the water, such as pumping and treatment facilities;
      3.   Storm sewer and sanitary sewer outfalls;
      4.   Underground and overhead utilities;
      5.   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail systems
including any related fencing (at least 50 percent open when viewed from any
one direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and including
open air pavilions;
      6.   Detached garages, storage sheds, or other nonhabitable accessory
structures without toilet facilities to existing buildings that will not block
flood flows, nor reduce the floodway storage;
      7.   Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways and any
modifications thereto;
      8.   Parking lots and any modifications thereto (where depth of flooding
at the 100-year frequency flood event will not exceed 1.0'), and aircraft
parking aprons built at or below ground elevation;
      9.   Regulatory floodway regrading, without fill, to create a positive
nonerosive slope toward a watercourse;
      10.   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including construction of watertight window wells, elevating
structures, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing
structure, and which are not considered substantial improvements to the
structure;
      11.   In the case of damaged or replacement buildings, reconstruction or
repairs made to a building that are valued at less than fifty percent (50%) of
the market value of the building before it was damaged or replaced, and which
do not increase the outside dimensions of the building;
      12.   Additions to existing buildings above the base flood elevation that
do not increase the building's footprint and are valued at less than fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the building.
   E.   Within the regulatory floodway as identified on the Regulatory Floodway
Map designated by DNR, the construction of an appropriate use will be
considered permissible provided that the proposed project meets the following
engineering and mitigation criteria and is so stated in writing with supporting
plans, calculations and data by a registered professional engineer, and
provided that any structure meets the protection requirements of Section
6-14A-9 of this Article.
      1.   Preservation Of Flood Conveyance, So As Not To Increase Flood Stage
Upstream: For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings, on-
stream structure or dams, all effective regulatory floodway conveyance loss due
to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including the
100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective regulatory floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration:
         a.   Regulatory floodway conveyance,
            "K" = 1.486 AR  2/3
                n
         Where "n" is Manning's roughness factor, "A" is the effective area of
the cross section, and "R" is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter.
(See Open Channel Hydraulics, Ven Te Chow, 1959, McGraw-Hill Book Co., New
York).
         b.   The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing and
proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a Federal,
State, or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a nonvegetative
land cover.
         c.   Transition sections shall be provided and used in calculations of
effective regulatory floodway conveyance. The following expansion and
contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to
DNR through engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt
transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
            (1)   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length.
            (2)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's
length.
            (3)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction,
a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of
stream length shall be used.
            (4)   Transition sections shall be provided between cross sections
with rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the regulatory floodway
delineation on adjacent properties.
            (5)   All cross sections used in the calculations shall be located
perpendicular to flood flows.
      2.   Preservation Of Floodway Storage So As Not To Increase Downstream
Flooding: Compensatory storage shall be provided for any regulatory floodway
storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or structures
placed and the impact of any related flood control projects. Compensatory
storage for fill or structures shall be equal to at least one and five-tenths
(1.5) times the volume of flood plain storage lost. Artificially created
storage lost due to a reduction in head loss behind a bridge shall not be
required to be replaced. The compensatory regulatory floodway storage shall be
placed between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year
flood elevation, see Section
6-14A-10.E. All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse. If the compensatory storage will not be placed at
the location of the proposed construction, the applicant's engineer shall
demonstrate to DNR through a determination of flood discharges and water
surface elevations that the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
Finally, there shall be no reduction in floodway surface area as a result of a
floodway modification, unless such modification is necessary to reduce flooding
at existing structure.
      3.   Preservation Of Floodway Velocities So As Not To Increase Stream
Erosion Or Flood Heights: For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts
or on stream structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in
the average channel or regulatory floodway velocities or stage for all flood
events up to and including the 100-year frequency event. However, in the case
of bridges or culverts or on-stream structures built for the purpose of backing
up water in the stream during normal or flood flows, velocities may be
increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and sedimentation will be
avoided by the use of rip-rap or other design measures.
      4.   Construction Of New Bridges Or Culvert Crossings And Roadway
Approaches: The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of upstream
flood stages greater than one-tenth foot (0.1') when compared to the existing
condition for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency
event; or the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within the
channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or
within recorded flood easements. If the proposed construction will increase
upstream flood stages greater than one-tenth foot (0.1'), the developer must
contact DNR, Dam Safety Section, for a dam safety permit or waiver.
         a.   The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be
calculated using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for
tail water conditions for the flood study specified in Section
6-14A-5 of this Article. Culverts must be analyzed using the U.S. DOT, FHWA
Hydraulic Chart for the Selection of Highway Culverts. Bridges must be analyzed
using the U.S. DOT Federal Highway Administration Hydraulics of Bridge
Waterways calculation procedures.
         b.   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per subsection
6-14A-7E2.
         c.   Velocity increase must be mitigated per subsection
6-14A-7E3.
         d.   If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is used for
recreational or commercial navigation, a Department of Natural Resources permit
must be received.
         e.   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge
showing the existing condition and profile must be submitted to DNR for
concurrence that a CLOMR is not required per subsection
6-14A-7D.
         f.   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall be
designed per subsection
6-14A-7E8.
      5.   Reconstruction Or Modification Of Existing Bridges, Culverts And
Approach Roads:
         a.   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than one-tenth foot (0.1')
increase in backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies
up to and including the 100-year event, if the existing structure is not a
source of flood damage.
         b.   If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a
source of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream flood plain,
the applicant's engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
         c.   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing is a
source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in accordance
with the Department of Transportation Rules, 92 Illinois Administrative Code
708 (Floodway Construction in Northeastern Illinois), and submitted to the DNR
for review and concurrence before a permit is issued.
      6.   On-Stream Structures Built For The Purpose Of Backing Up Water: Any
increase in upstream flood stages greater than zero foot (0.0') when compared
to the existing conditions for all flood events up to and including the 100-
year frequency event shall be contained within the channel banks (or within
existing vertical extensions of the channel banks), such as within the design
protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within recorded flood
easements. A permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must be
obtained from DNR, Dam Safety Section, for a dam safety permit or waiver for
any structure built for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during
normal or flood flow. All "dams" and impoundment structures as defined in
Section
6-14A-2 "dam" shall meet the permitting requirements of 92 Illinois
Administrative Code 702 (Construction and Maintenance of Dams). If the proposed
activity involves a modification on the channel or floodway to accommodate an
impoundment, it shall be demonstrated that:
         a.   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest by
providing flood control, public recreation, or regional storm water detention;
         b.   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of indigenous fish
species, which require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle,
such as for spawning;
         c.   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded water
quality or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual bank
slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a presedimentation basin;
         d.   A nonpoint source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff, as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals, and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control;
         e.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of Section
6-14A-7.
      7.   Floodproofing Of Existing Habitable, Residential And Commercial
Structures: If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of the
existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no further than ten feet (10') from the outside of the
building. Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be required for
floodproofing activities.
      8.   Excavation In The Floodway: When excavation is proposed in the
design of bridges and culvert openings, including the modifications to and
replacement of existing bridge and culvert structures, or to compensate for
lost conveyance for other appropriate uses, transition sections shall be
provided for the excavation. The following expansion and construction ratios
shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to DNR through
engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions may be
used with the same efficiency:
         a.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section,
the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length;
         b.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section,
the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot
(1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's length; and
         c.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of stream
length shall be used;
         d.   Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream and
downstream of the transition sections;
         e.   If the proposed activity involves a channel modification, it
shall be demonstrated that:
            (1)   There are no practicable alternatives to the activity which
would accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the
body of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank
stabilization, floodproofing of existing structures, removal of structures from
the flood plain, clearing the channel, high flow channel or the establishment
of a stream side buffer strip or green belt. Channel modification is acceptable
if the purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water quality and
fish and wildlife habitat;
            (2)   Water quality, habitat and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values;
            (3)   The activity has been planned and designed and will be
constructed in a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural
conditions of the body of water affected, consistent with the following
criteria:
               (A)   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall
match as closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross
section, slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously
modified, restoration of more natural physical conditions should be
incorporated into channel modification design, where practical.
               (B)   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at
both the upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they
will prevent erosion.
               (C)   One-sided construction of a channel shall be used when
feasible. Removal of streamside (riparian) vegetation should be limited to one
side of the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and stabilization
effects of the vegetation.
               (D)   Clearing of vegetation shall be limited to that which is
essential for construction of the channel.
               (E)   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no
steeper than three to one (3:1) horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable.
Natural vegetation and gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank
stabilization. Where high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, natural rock or rip-rap are preferred
materials. Artificial materials such as concrete, gabions, or construction
rubble should be avoided unless there are no practicable alternatives.
               (F)   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall
be seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction. Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to
stabilize disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative
cover.
               (G)   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom
diversity such as deep pools, riffles and other similar features, such features
shall be provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and flow
characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established, where
appropriate.
               (H)   A sediment basin shall be installed at the downstream end
of the modification to reduce sedimentation and degradation of downstream water
quality.
               (I)   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry and
all items of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to
diversion of water into the new channel.
               (J)   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the
channel enters or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless
necessitated by a public flood control project or unless such increase is
justified as part of a habitat improvement or erosion control project.
               (K)   Unless the modification is for a public flood control
project, there shall be no reduction in the volume of floodwater storage
outside the floodway as a result of the modification.
      9.   Seeding And Stabilization Plan: For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
      10.   Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Plan: For all activities in the
floodway, including grading, filling and excavation, in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria:
         a.   The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the maximum
vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the time soil
is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural vegetation be
destroyed, removed or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to the
initiation of improvements.
         b.   Temporary and/or permanent soil stabilization shall be applied to
denuded areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization shall be
provided within fifteen (15) days after final grade is reached on any portion
of the site, and within fifteen (15) days to denuded areas which may not be at
final grade but will remain undisturbed for longer than sixty (60) days.
         c.   Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any
significant grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement
of eroded sediments off site or into the channel. Potential sediment control
devices include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion ditches
and sediment basins.
         d.   A vegetated buffer strip of at least twenty five feet (25') in
width shall be preserved and/or reestablished, where possible, along existing
channels (see subsection
6-14A-7E15). Construction vehicle use of channels shall be minimized. Temporary
stream crossings shall be constructed, where necessary, to minimize erosion.
Necessary construction in or along channels shall be restabilized immediately.
         e.   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be designed
and implemented consistent with "Procedures and Standards for Urban Soil
Erosion and Sedimentation Control in Illinois" (1988) also known as the "Green
Book" and "Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control"
(IEPA, 1987).
      11.   Public Flood Control Projects: For public flood control projects,
the permitting requirements of this Section will be considered met if the
applicant can demonstrate to DNR through hydraulic and hydrologic calculations
that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively result in
increased flood heights outside the project right of way or easements for all
flood events, up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
      12.   General Criteria For Analysis Of Flood Elevations:
         a.   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the regulatory
floodway study, referenced in Section
6-14A-5, must be used for analysis of the base condition. If the study data
appears to be in error or conditions have changed, DNR shall be contacted for
approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions data to use.
         b.   If the 100-year regulatory floodway elevation at the site of the
proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet the requirements of this Section for the 100-year frequency flood
elevations of the regulatory floodway conditions and conditions with the
receiving stream at normal water elevations.
         c.   If the applicant learns from DNR, local governments, or a private
owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to be
removed, reconstructed, modified, or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
(5) years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this Section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
      13.   Conditional Letter Of Map Revision: If the appropriate use would
result in a change in the regulatory floodway location or the 100-year
frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit to DNR and FEMA all the
information, calculations and documents necessary to be issued a conditional
Regulatory Floodway Map revision and receive from DNR a conditional approval of
the regulatory floodway change before a permit is issued. However, the final
Regulatory Floodway Map will not be changed by DNR until "as-built" plans or
record drawings are submitted and accepted by FEMA and DNR. In the case of
nongovernment projects, the municipality in incorporated areas and the county
in unincorporated areas shall concur with the conditional Regulatory Floodway
Map revisions before DNR approval can be given. No filling, grading, dredging
or excavating shall take place until a conditional approval is issued. No
further development activities shall take place until a final letter of map
revision (LOMR) is issued by FEMA or DNR.
      14.   Professional Engineer's Supervision: All engineering analyses shall
be performed by or under the supervision of a registered professional engineer.
      15.   For all activities in the floodway involving construction within
twenty five feet (25') of the channel, the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within at
least twenty five feet (25') of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
         b.   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during the
construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
         c.   The use of native riparian vegetation is preferred in the buffer
strip. Access through this buffer strip shall be provided, when necessary, for
stream maintenance purposes.
After receipt of conditional approval of the regulatory floodway change and
issuance of a permit and a conditional letter of map revision, construction as
necessary to change the regulatory floodway designation may proceed but no
buildings or structures or other construction that is not an appropriate use
may be placed in that area until the regulatory floodway map is changed and a
final letter of map revision is received. The regulatory floodway map will be
revised upon acceptance and concurrence by DNR and FEMA of the "as-built"
plans.
   F.   State Review: For those projects listed below located in a regulatory
floodway, the following criteria shall be submitted to DNR for their review and
concurrence prior to the issuance of a permit:
      1.   DNR will review an engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to a
proposed bridge pursuant to subsection 6-14A-7E4.
      2.   DNR will review an engineer's determination that an existing bridge
or culvert crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating
the proposed flood profile, pursuant to subsection 6-14A-7E5.
      3.   The DNR will review alternative transition sections and
hydraulically equivalent storage pursuant to subsection 6-14A-7E1, E2 and E8.
      4.   The DNR will review and approve prior to start of construction any
department projects, "dams", as defined in Section
6-14A-2, and all other State, Federal or local units of government projects,
including projects of the Municipality or County.
   G.   Other Permits: In addition to the other requirements of this Article, a
development permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is
not required from DNR, issued pursuant to 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes, 5/
5 et seq. No permit from DNR shall be required if the Department has delegated
this responsibility to the Village.
   H.   Dam Safety Permits: Any work involving the construction, modification
or removal of a "dam" as defined in Section
6-14A-2 per 92 Illinois Administrative Code 702 (Rules for Construction of
Dams) shall obtain an Illinois Department of Natural Resources dam safety
permit prior to the start of construction of a dam. If the Director of the
Office of Quality Control finds a dam that does not have a DNR permit, the
Director of the Office of Quality Control shall immediately notify the Dam
Safety Section of the Department of Natural Resources. If the Director of the
Office of Quality Control finds a dam which is believed to be in an unsafe
condition, the Director of the Office of Quality Control shall immediately
notify the owner of the dam, DNR, Dam Safety Section in Springfield, and the
Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Agency (ESDA).
   I.   Activities That Do Not Require A Registered Professional Engineer's
Review: The following activities may be permitted without a registered
professional engineer's review. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this Article, including the mitigation requirements.
      1.   Underground and overhead utilities that:
         a.   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations, or
         b.   Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in the
floodway, or
         c.   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the pipe
or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing stream
bed, and
         d.   In the case of overhead utilities, no supporting towers are
placed in the watercourse and are designed in such a fashion as not to catch
debris.
      2.   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls that:
         a.   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope, and
         b.   Do not result in any increase in ground elevation, and
         c.   Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
      3.   Construction of sidewalks, athletic fields (excluding fences),
properly anchored playground equipment and patios at grade.
      4.   Construction of shoreline and streambank protection that:
         a.   Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
         b.   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of bank.
         c.   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross-sectional area
of the stream channel or bank of the lake.
         d.   Vegetative stabilization and gradual side slopes are the
preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems. Where high channel
velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use of alternative
stabilization measures, natural rock or rip-rap are preferred materials.
Artificial materials such as concrete, construction rubble, and gabions should
be avoided unless there are no practicable alternatives.
      5.   Temporary stream crossings in which:
         a.   The approach roads will be one-half foot (0.5') or less above
natural grade.
         b.   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing up
the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or
outfall invert.
         c.   The top of roadway fill in the channel will be at least two feet
(2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be
nonerosive materials, such as rip-rap or gravel.
         d.   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise stabilized
as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of any
construction.
         e.   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within
one year of authorization. (Ord. 95-20-81, 22-14-49)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  6-14A-2 of this Article.
6-14A-8: OCCUPATION AND USE OF SFHA WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE NOT IDENTIFIED:
In SFHA or flood plain, where no floodways have been identified, and no base
flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation have been established by FEMA, and
draining more than a square mile, no development shall be permitted unless the
cumulative effect of the proposals, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated uses and structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the
flow and passage of the floodwater nor significantly increase the base flood or
100-year frequency flood elevation.
   A.   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body,
not exempted by State law, shall commence any development in an SFHA or flood
plain without first obtaining a development permit from the Director of the
Office of Quality Control. Application for a development permit shall be made
on a form provided by the Office of Quality Control. The application shall be
accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions; existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation of filling, sealed by a licensed engineer, or surveyor; the location
and dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevation
at the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to
the requirements of Section
6-14A-9 of this Article.
The application for a development permit shall also include the following
information:
      1.   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose and
intended use;
      2.   Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn
to scale, on the Regulatory Floodway Maps, indicating whether it is proposed to
be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
      3.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
      4.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as a
minimum:
         a.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphics
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
         b.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum, or
NGVD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the
proposed construction is near a commercially navigable body of water), flood
plain limit, location and orientation of cross sections, north arrow and a
graphic or numerical scale;
         c.   Cross section views of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical); and
         d.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance;
      5.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of subsection D of this
section;
      6.   Any and all other local, state and federal permits or approvals that
may be required for this type of development.
   B.   Calculation Of Site Elevation: Based on the best available existing
data according to the Illinois state water survey's floodplain information
repository, the director of the office of quality control shall compare the
elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency elevation. Should
no elevation information exist for the site, the developer's engineer shall
calculate the elevation according to subsection 6-14A-5D of this article. Any
development located on land that can be shown to have been higher than the base
flood elevation as of the site's first flood insurance rate map identification
is not in the SFHA and therefore, not subject to the requirements of this
article. The building administrator shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance
rate map identification.
   C.   Submission Of Other Permits: The director of the office of quality
control shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of all
other local, state and federal permits, approvals or permit-not-required
letters that may be required for this type of activity. The director of the
office of quality control shall not issue the development permit unless all
required local, state and federal permits have been obtained.
   D.   Preventing Increased Damages: No development in the SFHA, where a
floodway has not been determined shall create a damaging or potentially
damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public health,
safety and welfare or impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
the floodway or channel, or impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat.
Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as
called for in this article.
   E.   Standards If Floodway Not Determined: Within all riverine SFHAs where
floodway has not been determined, the following standards shall apply:
      1.   Calculations And Data: The developer shall have a registered
professional engineer state in writing and show through supporting plans,
calculations and data that the project meets the engineering requirements of
subsections 6-14A-7E1 through E12 of this article for the entire floodplain as
calculated under the provisions of subsection 6-14A-5D of this article. As an
alternative, the developer should have an engineering study performed to
determine a floodway and submit that engineering study to DNR for acceptance as
a regulatory floodway. Upon acceptance of their floodway by the department, the
developer shall then demonstrate that the project meets the requirements of
section
6-14A-7 of this article for the regulatory floodway.
      2.   Development Permit Not Issued: A development permit shall not be
issued unless the applicant first obtains a permit from DNR or written
documentation that a permit is not required from DNR.
      3.   No DNR Permit Required When: No permit from DNR shall be required if
the division has delegated permit responsibility to the village per 92 Illinois
administrative code, part 708, for regulatory floodways, per DNR statewide
permit entitled "construction in flood plains with no designated floodways in
northeastern Illinois".
      4.   Dam Safety Permits: Any work involving the construction,
modification or renewal of a "dam" or an on stream structure to impound water
as defined in section
6-14A-2 of this article shall obtain an Illinois department of natural
resources dam safety permit or letter indicating a permit is not required prior
to the start of construction of a dam. If the director of the office of quality
control finds a dam that does not have a DNR permit, the director shall
immediately notify the dam safety section of the department of natural
resources. If the director of the office of quality control finds a dam which
is believed to be in unsafe condition, the director shall immediately notify
the owner of the dam and the Illinois emergency services and disaster agency
(ESDA), and the DNR, dam safety section in Springfield.
      5.   Permits Not Needing Engineer's Review: The following activities may
be permitted without a registered professional engineer's review or calculation
of a base flood elevation and regulatory floodway. Such activities shall still
meet the other requirements of this article.
         a.   Underground and overhead utilities that:
            (1)   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations,
or
            (2)   Do not require the placement of aboveground structure in a
floodway, or
            (3)   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the
pipe or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing
stream bed, and
            (4)   In the case of overhead utilities, no supporting towers are
placed in the watercourse and are designed in such a fashion as not to catch
debris.
         b.   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls that:
            (1)   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope, and
            (2)   Do not result in any increase in ground elevation, and
            (3)   Are designed so as not to cause stream bank erosion at the
outfall location.
         c.   Construction of shoreline and streambed protection that:
            (1)   Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length or two
(2) cubic yards per linear foot of streambed.
            (2)   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of
bank.
            (3)   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross sectional
area of the stream channel by more than ten percent (10%).
            (4)   Vegetative stabilization and gradual side slopes are the
preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems. Where high channel
velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitates the use of alternative
stabilization measures, natural rock or riprap are preferred materials.
Artificial materials such as concrete, construction rubble and gabions should
be avoided unless there are no practicable alternatives.
         d.   Temporary stream crossings in which:
            (1)   The approach roads will be one-half foot (0.5') or less above
natural grade.
            (2)   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing
up the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile
or outfall invert.
            (3)   The top of roadway fill in the channel will be at least two
feet (2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be
nonerosive materials, such as riprap or gravel.
            (4)   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise
stabilized as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of
construction.
            (5)   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed
within one year after authorization.
         e.   The construction of light poles, signposts and similar
structures;
         f.   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade;
         g.   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports built at or below
existing grade that would not obstruct the flow of floodwaters;
         h.   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, or ten feet (10') in any one dimension (e.g.,
animal shelters and toolsheds);
         i.   The construction of additions to existing buildings which do not
increase the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%), which are
located on the upstream or downstream side of the existing building, and which
do not extend beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to
the flow of floodwaters;
         j.   Minor maintenance dredging of a stream channel where:
            (1)   The affected length of stream is less than one thousand feet
(1,000'),
            (2)   The work is confined to reestablishing flows in natural
stream channels, or
            (3)   The cross sectional area of the dredged channel conforms to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
         k.   The flood carrying capacity within any altered or relocated
watercourse shall be maintained.
   F.   Compensatory Storage: Whenever any portion of a floodplain is
authorized for use, the volume of space which will be occupied by the
authorized fill or structure below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be compensated for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent
volume of excavation taken from below the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and five-
tenths (1.5) times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure. In
the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be made opposite or
adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied. All floodplain storage lost below
the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-
year flood elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the
watercourse. (Ords. 95-20-81, 08-16-43)
6-14A-9: PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOOD PLAIN AREAS:
In addition to the requirements found in sections
6-14A-6,
6-14A-7 and
6-14A-8 of this article, for development in flood fringes, regulatory floodways
and SFHAs or floodplains where no floodways have been identified (zones A, AO,
AH, AE, A1-A30, A-99, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M or E) the following requirements
shall be met:
   A.   Public Health Standards:
      1.   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal waste, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants or other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE.
      2.   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer
lines and on site waste disposal systems may be permitted providing all
manholes or other aboveground openings located below FPE are watertight.
   B.   Carrying Capacity And Notification: For all projects involving channel
modifications, fill or stream maintenance (including levees), the flood
carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be maintained. In addition, the
village shall notify adjacent communities, in writing, thirty (30) days prior
to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of the
watercourse.
   C.   Protecting Buildings: All buildings located within a 100-year
floodplain also known as an SFHA, shall be protected from flood damage below
the flood protection elevation. However, existing buildings located within a
regulatory floodway shall also meet the more restrictive appropriate use
standards included in section
6-14A-7 of this article.
      – Construction or placement of a new building.
      – A structural alteration to an existing building that either increases
the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%) or the building's market
value by more than fifty percent (50%).
      – Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured home
on an existing site. This building protection requirement does not apply to
returning a mobile home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was
removed to prevent flood damage; and
      – Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one hundred eighty
(180) days.
      This building protection requirement may be met by one of the following
methods:
      1.   A residential or nonresidential building, when allowed, may be
constructed on permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         b.   The fill shall be in layers no greater than one foot (1') deep
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection elevation. However, the
ten foot (10') minimum may be waived if a structural engineer certifies an
alternative method to protect the building from damages due to hydrostatic
pressures. The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour. The fill
shall not adversely affect the flow or surface drainage from or onto
neighboring properties.
      2.   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
stilts, piles, walls or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood. The permanent openings shall be no more than
one foot (1') above grade, and consist of a minimum of two (2) openings. The
openings must have a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation.
         b.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures, so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris.
         c.   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be
constructed of materials resistant to flood damage. The lowest floor (including
basement) and all electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at or above the
flood protection elevation. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone
lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed service facilities may be
located below the flood protection elevation.
         d.   The areas below the flood protection elevation may only be used
for the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement.
         e.   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with the rules
and regulations for the Illinois mobile home tie down act issued pursuant to 77
Illinois administrative code 870. In addition, all manufactured homes shall
meet the following elevation requirements:
            (1)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved: a) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, b) in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision, c) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision, or d) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial
damage from a flood, the top of the lowest floor shall be elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation.
            (2)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, the manufactured
home shall be elevated so that either the top of the lowest floor is above the
base flood elevation, or the chassis is at least thirty six inches (36") in
height above grade and supported by reinforced piers or other foundations of
equivalent strength, whichever is less.
         f.   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers shall be required to
meet the elevation and anchoring requirements of subsection C2e of this section
unless:
            (1)   They are on site for less than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days; and
            (2)   They are fully licensed and ready for highway use.
A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utility
and service devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      3.   Only a nonresidential building may be structurally floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided that a registered professional engineer shall
certify that the building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the
flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant utility facilities are
watertight and capable of resisting effects of the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood. The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy and impacts from debris or ice. Floodproofing measures shall be
operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity (levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection).
      4.   Nonconforming structures located in a regulatory floodway may remain
in use, but may not be enlarged, replaced or structurally altered. A
nonconforming structure damaged by flood, fire, wind or other natural or
manmade disaster may be restored unless the damage exceeds fifty percent (50%)
of its market value before it was damaged, in which case it shall conform to
this article. (Ord. 95-20-81)
6-14A-10: OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The village president and board of trustees shall take into account flood
hazards, to the extent that they are known in all official actions related to
land management, use and development.
   A.   New or existing subdivisions, including individual lot development or
redevelopment, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements and planned unit
developments (PUDs) within the SFHA shall be reviewed to assure that the
proposed developments are consistent with Sections
6-14A-6,
6-14A-7,
6-14A-8,
6-14A-9 and 6-14A-10 of this Article and the need to minimize flood damage.
Plats or plans for new subdivisions, mobile home parks and planned unit
developments (PUDs) shall include a signed statement by a registered
professional engineer that the plats or plans account for changes in the
drainage of surface waters in accordance with the Plat Act.
   B.   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel trailer
parks, planned unit developments (PUDs), and additions to manufactured home
parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations. Where the information
is not available from an existing study filed with the Illinois state water
survey, the applicant's engineer shall be responsible for calculating the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation per subsection
6-14A-5D of this article and the "floodway" delineation per the definition in
section
6-14A-2 of this article, and submitting it to the state water survey and DNR
for review and approval as best available regulatory data.
   C.   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Whenever possible, the floodplain shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
   D.   The village president and board of trustees shall not approve any
planned unit development (PUD) or plat of subdivision located outside the
corporate limits unless such agreement or plat is in accordance with this
article.
   E.   Any placement of fill, structures, or other materials above grade in
the flood plain shall require compensatory storage equal to at least one and
five-tenths (1.5) times the volume of flood plain storage displaced and shall
be provided at the same incremental flood frequency elevation as the flood
storage displaced. Compensatory storage shall be operational prior to placement
of fill, structures, or other materials in the regulatory flood plain. Grading
in Special Management Areas shall be done in such a manner that the existing
flood plain storage is maintained at all times. (Ord. 95-20-81, 22-14-49)
6-14A-11: VARIANCES:
No variances shall be granted to any development located in a "regulatory
floodway". However, when a development proposal is located outside of a
regulatory floodway, and whenever the standards of this article place undue
hardship on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the
Zoning and Planning Commission for a variance. The Zoning and Planning
Commission shall review the applicant's request for a variance and shall submit
its recommendations to the village president and board of trustees.
   A.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to stream beds and banks,
roads, utilities or other public facilities;
      6.   The provisions of subsections
6-14A-6E and
6-14A-8D of this article shall still be met;
      7.   The activity is not in a regulatory floodway;
      8.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not represent a
general problem; and
      9.   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the area involved including existing stream uses.
   B.   The director of the office of quality control shall notify an applicant
in writing that a variance from the requirements of section
6-14A-9 of this article that would lessen the degree of protection to a
building will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that he will acknowledge in writing that he assumes the risk and liability.
   C.   Variances requested in connection with restoration of a historic site
or "historic structure" as defined in section
6-14A-2, "historic structures", of this article may be granted using criteria
more permissive than the requirements of subsections A and B of this section,
subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ords. 95-20-81, 08-16-43, 19-16-66)
6-14A-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
article does not imply that development, either inside or outside of the SFHA,
will be free from flooding or damage. This article does not create liability on
the part of the village, or any officer or employee thereof, for any flood
damage that results from reliance on this article or any administrative
decision made lawfully hereunder. (Ord. 95-20-81)
6-14A-13: PENALTY:
Failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance
resolution shall be deemed to be a violation of this article. Upon due
investigation, the director of the office of quality control may determine that
a violation of the minimum standards of this article exists. The director of
the office of quality control shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The village may make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this article or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this article.
      2.   Any person who violates this article shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
      4.   The village may record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   B.   The director of the office of quality control shall inform the owner
that any such violation is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages
and, therefore, may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 95-20-81)
6-14A-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This article is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. Where this article and other
ordinances, easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. This article
is intended to repeal the original ordinance 81-3-7 which was adopted to meet
the national flood insurance program regulations, but is not intended to repeal
the resolution which the village passed in order to establish initial
eligibility for the program. (Ord. 95-20-81)
6-14A-15: SEPARABILITY:
The provisions and sections of this article shall be deemed separable and the
invalidity of any portion of this article shall not affect the validity of the
remainder. (Ord. 95-20-81)
CHAPTER 15
PERMITS GENERALLY
SECTION:
6-15-1: Permits Required
6-15-2: Failure To Acquire Permits
6-15-3: Nonexclusivity Of Remedy
6-15-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
No building or structure, or any part thereof, shall be erected, constructed,
altered, repaired, remodeled, removed or excavated for without first obtaining
all necessary permits for said erection, construction, alteration, repair,
remodeling, removal or excavation, as required by this title. (Ord. 88-21-83)
6-15-2: FAILURE TO ACQUIRE PERMITS:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to obtain any permit(s)
required by this title before proceeding with the erection, construction,
alteration, repair, remodeling, removal or excavation of any building or
structure, or part thereof, shall be required to obtain said permit(s) and
shall be charged double the applicable fee or fees.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to obtain any permit(s)
required by this title before proceeding with the erection, construction,
alteration, repair, remodeling, removal or excavation of any building or
structure, or part thereof, a second time within a twenty four (24) month
period, shall be required to obtain said permit(s) and shall be charged double
the applicable fee or fees therefor, and shall also be required to pay double
the applicable fee or fees for all permits required by this title which are
applied for by said person, firm or corporation during the twenty four (24)
month period following said second failure to obtain any such permits. (Ord.
04-03-12)
6-15-3: NONEXCLUSIVITY OF REMEDY:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit such other legal remedies
as may be available to the village under other provisions of this code or as
otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 88-21-83)
CHAPTER 16
PRESERVATION OF HISTORIC BUILDINGS, DISTRICTS, LANDMARKS AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
6-16-1: Purpose
6-16-2: Definitions
6-16-3: Historic Commission (Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
6-16-4: Meetings And Procedures Of The Historic Commission (Rep. by Ord. 19-16-
59)
6-16-5: Powers And Duties Of The Historic Commission (Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
6-16-6: Nomination And Consideration Of Buildings, Districts, Landmarks And
Structures For Official Historic Designation (Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
6-16-7:    Criteria For Official Historic Designation (Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
6-16-8:    Effect Of Official Historic Designation (Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
6-16-9:    Official Historic Designation (Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
6-16-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the educational, cultural and
economic welfare of the village by ensuring the preservation of historic
buildings, districts, landmarks and structures that represent the cultural
heritage of the people of Oak Lawn. Furthermore, it is the purpose of this
chapter to strengthen the economy of the village by protecting, defining and
enhancing buildings, districts, landmarks and structures that are significant
in the history of the village. (Ord. 95-22-98)
6-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be
defined as set forth next to each:
ALTERATION: Any activity, other than demolition, that would require a permit
under this title, and involves the exterior of a building or structure.
BUILDING: A habitable structure.
DEMOLITION: Any activity that would require a permit pursuant to section
6-1A-3-3 of this title.
DISTRICT: A contiguous geographic area within the village within specific
delineated boundaries.
HISTORIC: Having importance in or influence on the history of the village,
state, midwest region or the United States.
LANDMARK: Anything other than a building or structure which exists at a fixed
location within the village.
OFFICIAL HISTORIC DESIGNATION: The formal designation of a building, district,
landmark or structure as historic by the village board pursuant to this
chapter.
STRUCTURE: Shall be defined as set forth in section
4-1-6 of this code. (Ord. 95-22-98)
6-16-3: HISTORIC COMMISSION:
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
6-16-4: MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES OF THE HISTORIC COMMISSION:
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
6-16-5: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE HISTORIC COMMISSION:
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
6-16-6: NOMINATION AND CONSIDERATION OF BUILDINGS, DISTRICTS, LANDMARKS AND
STRUCTURES FOR OFFICIAL HISTORIC DESIGNATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
6-16-7: CRITERIA FOR OFFICIAL HISTORIC DESIGNATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
6-16-8: EFFECT OF OFFICIAL HISTORIC DESIGNATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
6-16-9: OFFICIAL HISTORIC DESIGNATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 19-16-59)
CHAPTER 17
TRAMPOLINES 1
SECTION:
6-17-1: Definitions
6-17-2: Enforcement
6-17-3: Inspections
6-17-4: Safety Precautions
6-17-5: Exceptions
6-17-6: Responsibility
6-17-7: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 4, article G of this code.
6-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them below for the
purposes of this chapter:
TRAMPOLINE: A rebound device intended for recreational use and generally used
for jumping up and down with the intent of remaining on the trampoline.
TRAMPOLINE STRUCTURE: The support structure (consisting of metal, plastic or
wood, or any combination thereof) to which the trampoline springs and surface
area are attached. (Ord. 00-9-25)
6-17-2: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the "building officers" (as defined in section
6-1-5 of this title) to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The building
officers shall keep complete records of all inspections made and all other
official duties as provided herein. (Ord. 00-9-25)
6-17-3: INSPECTIONS:
The building officers shall make or cause to be made inspections of all
trampolines at such time as the enforcing officer determines is appropriate.
The building officers shall have the right during reasonable hours to enter any
building or premises in the discharge of their official duties or for the
purpose of making inspections of trampolines. (Ord. 00-9-25)
6-17-4: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to maintain for use a trampoline in the village, except in
compliance with the following regulations:
   A.   A trampoline may be located in any rear yard of a lot.
   B.   A trampoline located in a side yard of an interior lot or the interior
side yard of a corner lot shall not be located so as to extend past the front
line of the main building.
   C.   A trampoline shall not be located in the side street side yard of a
corner lot or in the front yard of any lot. (Ord. 00-9-25)
6-17-5: EXCEPTIONS:
These regulations shall not apply to:
   A.   Mini-trampolines that have a ground clearance of one foot (1') or less.
   B.   Trampolines that are located inside a house or other fully enclosed
building or structure. (Ord. 00-9-25)
6-17-6: RESPONSIBILITY:
This chapter shall not be interpreted to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, operating or controlling any trampoline
for damage to any other person or property caused by a defect therein; nor
shall the village, or any officer, employee or agent thereof enforcing this
chapter, be held as assuming any such liability by reason of the inspections
authorized herein. (Ord. 00-9-25)
6-17-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined fifty dollars
($50.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 00-9-25)
CHAPTER 18
ROOFTOP STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
6-18-1: Screening Required
6-18-2: Screening Requirements
6-18-3: Screening Design
6-18-4: Application
6-18-5: Screening Plans Required For Building Permit
6-18-1: SCREENING REQUIRED:
All rooftop mechanical equipment including, but not limited to, heating, air
conditioning, ventilation, or exhaust on the roof of any building or structure
within the village's R-3, C-1, C-2, C-3, O, or M-1 zoning districts shall be
screened or enclosed in a manner that will mask the equipment from view. (Ord.
12-18-56)
6-18-2: SCREENING REQUIREMENTS:
Equipment screening in the form of parapet walls, unless otherwise approved by
the village's building official due to structural reasons, shall be installed
such that the entire piece of equipment is completely enclosed on all sides for
the full height of the unit plus any supporting curb work. (Ord. 12-18-56)
6-18-3: SCREENING DESIGN:
Construction of the screening or enclosure shall be of the same character and
design as the building itself and shall comply with all requirements of the Oak
Lawn building code and shall prohibit the rooftop structures from emanating any
noises in excess of the maximum noise levels established in subsection
4-8-8-1C of this code. (Ord. 12-18-56)
6-18-4: APPLICATION:
The provisions and requirements of this chapter shall apply only to new
building construction or the total replacement of existing rooftop mechanical
equipment for which a building permit application is submitted after September
11, 2012.
In no event, shall the provisions and requirements of this chapter apply to
existing rooftop mechanical equipment lawfully erected prior to September 11,
2012, or to any new development submitted to the Zoning and Planning Commission
of the village of Oak Lawn prior to September 11, 2012. (Ords. 12-18-56, 19-16-
66)
6-18-5: SCREENING PLANS REQUIRED FOR BUILDING PERMIT:
A building permit shall not be issued for a building unless the screening or
the enclosure is included on the plans submitted with the building permit
application. (Ord. 12-18-56)
TITLE 7
FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
7-1-1: Department Established, Membership
7-1-2: Qualifications
7-1-3: Organization, Chain Of Command
7-1-4: Fire Chief
7-1-5: Officers And Members
7-1-6: Salaries
7-1-7: Bureau Of Fire Prevention
7-1-8: Investigation Of Fires, Bureau Of Cause And Origin
7-1-9: Inspections
7-1-10: Fire Protection Service Outside Village
7-1-11: Uniforms
7-1-12: Fire Department Equipment
7-1-13: Duties Of Citizens
7-1-14: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-1-15: Violations And Penalties
7-1-16: DUI Emergency Response Fees
7-1-17: Foreign Fire Insurance Board
7-1-18: Emergency Response And Recovery Fee
7-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED, MEMBERSHIP:
   There is hereby created and established a department of the municipal
government of the village which shall be known as the Oak Lawn fire department.
The offices of the department shall include the fire chief, deputy fire chief,
fire prevention bureau chief, EMS bureau chief, training bureau chief,
battalion chiefs, captains, lieutenants, fire engineers, firefighters,
firefighters/paramedics, and/or such other offices as may be provided for
herein, and from time to time by ordinance.
(Ords. 67-1-1, 25-11-25)
7-1-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Participation In The Illinois Fire Protection Training Act:
      1.   The village hereby elects to participate in the programs provided
for in the Illinois fire protection training act.
      2.   In addition to all other requirements for Firefighters found in this
Code, including but not limited to those found in Section
2-6-9-2, before an individual may commence regular full-time employment as a
firefighter, he must have been certified by the Illinois state fire marshal as
a firefighter II, Basic Operations Firefighter or BOF training complete but not
OSFM Certified, as having successfully completed an approved training course as
provided in said act.
      3.   The board of fire and police commissioners is hereby instructed and
directed to make the necessary amendments to the personnel rules, and the rules
governing examination, appointment, promotion, renewal, etc., of said board of
fire and police commissioners in order to require that any person appointed to
the fire department of the village shall not become a regular member of the
village fire department unless and until he/she shall complete, pursuant to
said Illinois fire protection and training act, the approved training
requirements upon hire date and time of his initial employment. (Ord. 11-10-10,
22-18-57)
7-1-3: ORGANIZATION, CHAIN OF COMMAND:
   The fire department shall be organized and the offices thereof shall be
established and shall function as provided by rules and regulations and be
subject to the control of the board of fire and police commissioners 1  and the
president and board of trustees wherein in each case it is made and provided by
law. Appointments shall be made as provided in this Code. The chain of command
shall be in the following order: fire chief, deputy fire chief, assistant fire
chief, battalion chief, bureau chief, captain, lieutenant, engineer,
firefighter, and firefighter/paramedic.
(Ords. 67-1-1, 25-11-25)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 6 of this code.
7-1-4: FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Appointment: The village manager is authorized to appoint, suspend or
discharge the chief of the fire department without the consent of the board of
trustees. The fire chief need not be appointed from the members of the fire
department. If a member of the fire department is appointed Chief of the Fire
Department prior to being eligible to retire on pension, the member shall be
considered as on furlough from the rank they held immediately prior to the
member's appointment as Chief, if any, not including positions previously
appointed by the Village Manager. If the member resigns as Chief or is
discharged as Chief prior to attaining eligibility to retire on pension, the
member shall revert to and be established in such prior rank, if any, not
including positions previously appointed by the Village Manager, and thereafter
be entitled to all the benefits and emoluments of such prior rank, without
regard as to whether a vacancy then exists in such rank.
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Generally: The fire chief shall not be subject to active fire duty.
He shall have the management and control of all matters and things pertaining
to the fire department, and of all the officers, persons, members and
volunteers of the fire department shall be under the direction and supervision
of the fire chief.
      2.   Supervisory Duties: The fire chief shall have the sole and absolute
control and command over all persons on duty connected with the fire department
of the village. He shall possess full power and authority over its
organization, government and discipline, and the direction and control of the
bureau of fire prevention, and to that end may, from time to time, prescribe
and establish such rules and regulations as he may deem advisable, subject to
the provisions of the police and fire commissioners act and the codes adopted
by the president and board of trustees.
      3.   Suspension Of Firemen: The fire chief shall have the power to
suspend any fireman from duty, but he shall report such suspension to the board
of fire and police commissioners at its next regular meeting, and the reasons
for his action. On such report being made, the board of fire and police
commissioners shall take such action thereon as shall to them be just and right
in the premise. Any fireman so suspended shall not be entitled to pay while so
suspended, nor until he is returned to duty by the proper authority.
      4.   Investigate Fires: The fire chief shall cause all fires to be
investigated where the causes are undetermined or wherein incendiarism is
suspected and shall maintain a record of such investigations and of the
evidence in each case.
      5.   Reports:
         a.   At the end of each fiscal year of the village, the fire chief
shall prepare and submit, through the village manager to the President and
Board of Trustees, a report of all fires that have taken place during the year,
with the causes thereof, if ascertainable, and the number and description of
all buildings damaged or destroyed.
         b.   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for the keeping and the
making of necessary reports to the State Fire Marshal, and shall aid and assist
the State Fire Marshal in any investigation the said Marshal shall deem
expedient or necessary to make.
         c.   The Fire Chief shall keep and maintain a proper record of all
inspections made and a summary of violations, together with a memorandum of the
disposition of all fire prevention violations found to exist. The records shall
be open for inspection by the Village Manager, the President and Board of
Trustees, Chief of Police and Director of Office of Quality Control or
Inspectors.
      6.   Records: The Fire Chief is charged with maintaining complete records
of all business transactions in the Fire Department and of all property placed
in his custody or charge.
      7.   Inspect Equipment And Property: The Fire Chief shall cause an
inspection to be made at least annually, of all fire apparatus, equipment and
houses, and make his report and findings through the Village Manager to the
President and Board of Trustees in time for their consideration of the budget
and the appropriation ordinance.
      8.   Deliver Effects: On expiration of his term of office or his
resignation thereof or removal therefrom, the Fire Chief shall deliver to his
successor in office all books, records, equipment and property of every
description in his possession belonging to the Village or pertaining to his
office.
   C.   Bond: The Fire Chief, shall, before entering the duties of his office,
execute a bond to the Village in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
with surety to be approved by the President and Board of Trustees, conditioned
for the faithful discharge of his duties.
(1951 Code 4-2-2; Ords. 67-1-1, 77-15-20, 81-12-19; 1985 Code; Ord. 89-13-30,
25-11-25)
7-1-5: OFFICERS AND MEMBERS:
   A.   Offices Created: There are hereby created the respective offices of the
Fire Chief, Deputy Fire Chief, Fire Prevention Bureau Chief, EMS Bureau Chief,
Training Bureau Chief, Battalion Chief, Captain, Lieutenant, engineer,
firefighter, firefighter/paramedic, and such other additional offices of the
Fire Department as may from time to time be created by ordinance, and such
officers and members shall constitute and be known and designated as members of
the Fire Department.
   B.   Members Appointed:
      1.   Appointment: The authority and power to appoint members to the Fire
Department, except the Fire Chief and the Deputy Fire Chief, is hereby vested
and given to the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of the Village;
however, appointment of members of volunteer group or groups shall be made by
the President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
      2.   Duties: Members shall be under the direction and supervision of the
Fire Chief and shall have such duties and reporting and other obligations as
may be required by the Fire Chief.
   C.   Deputy Fire Chief:
      1.   Office Created: There is hereby created and established the Office
of Deputy Fire Chief of the Fire Department.
      2.   Appointment: The village manager is authorized to appoint, suspend
or discharge the deputy fire chief of the fire department without the consent
of the board of trustees. The deputy fire chief need not be appointed from the
members of the fire department. If a member of the fire department is appointed
deputy fire chief prior to being eligible to retire on pension, the member
shall be considered as on furlough from the rank they held immediately prior to
being appointed as deputy fire chief, if any. If such member resigns as deputy
fire chief or is discharged as deputy fire chief prior to attaining eligibility
to retire on pension, the member shall revert to and be established in their
prior rank, if any, not including positions previously appointed by the Village
Manager, and thereafter be entitled to all the benefits and emoluments of that
rank, without regard as to whether a vacancy then exists in that rank.
      3.   Duties: The Deputy Fire Chief is directly subordinate to the Fire
Chief and shall serve as the Acting Fire Chief in the absence of the Fire
Chief. The Deputy Fire Chief shall have all the rights, duties and obligations
of the Fire Chief in his/her absence, or upon the Fire Chief's direction, and
shall have such other duties and obligations as may be required by the Fire
Chief.
(Ords. 67-1-1, 18-01-02, 20-23-68, 25-11-25)
7-1-6: SALARIES:
   A.   Department Members: The Fire Chief and members of the Fire Department
shall receive for their services such salary and compensation as shall be
established by the Village.
   B.   Injured Firemen: Any member of the Fire Department sustaining an
accidental injury arising out of, and in the course of, his employment or
discharge of his duty shall be entitled to his usual salary during such time of
temporary total disability, not to exceed a period of three (3) months, less
the amount received by such injured fireman as workers' compensation benefits
for temporary total disability. (Ord. 67-1-1; 1985 Code)
7-1-7: BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION:
There is hereby established a Bureau of Fire Prevention. It shall consist of
such officers, members, volunteers and employees as shall be provided for by
ordinance.
The Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be under the direction and supervision of
the Fire Chief, and all fire inspection work of the bureau shall be under his
authority. (Ord. 77-15-20)
7-1-8: INVESTIGATION OF FIRES, BUREAU OF CAUSE AND ORIGIN:
   A.   Investigations Required: The Chief of the Fire Department shall be
responsible for having the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire
occurring in the Village, investigated to determine as to whether such fire was
the result of carelessness or by design. Such investigation shall begin as
close to the occurrence of the fire as possible and not later than two (2)
days. The assigned person responsible for making such investigation shall
notify the Chief of the Fire Department and the National Fire Service Incident
Reporting System as soon as the cause of the fire is determined.
   B.   Bureau of Cause and Origin:
      1.   Bureau Established, Chief Investigators: A Bureau of Cause and
Origin in the Fire Department of the Village is hereby established which shall
be operated under the supervision of the Chief of the Department. The Chief of
the Fire Department shall designate a member of said Department as Chief of the
Bureau of Cause and Origin who shall hold this office at the pleasure of the
Chief and who shall be known as the Chief Investigator.
      2.   Duties:
         a.   The Chief Investigator and his assistants shall enforce all the
fire laws and regulations of the Village and the State of Illinois in the
manner provided in this Chapter.
         b.   It shall be the duty of the Chief Investigator or such other
members of the Bureau of Cause and Origin assigned as a fire investigator to
determine the cause, origin and circumstances of all fires of suspicious
nature, fires where arson (incendiary nature) is suspected, fires where death
(s) occurred, fires where the cause(s) cannot be readily determined, and to
other fires or fire related incidents as required.
      3.   Arrest Powers: Any fire investigator who is a sworn, paid and full-
time member of the Village Fire Department who is authorized to investigate
fires or explosions and/or to deter mine the cause, origin and circumstances of
such fires or explosions that are suspected to be arson or arson-related
crimes, is designated a peace officer and shall possess the same powers of
arrest, search and seizure and the securing and service of warrants as police
officers of the Village.
      4.   Authority to Carry Weapons: While in the performance of an actual
investigation and matters incident or related thereto, any such fire
investigator may carry such weapons as may be necessary; provided, that such
fire investigator has satisfactorily completed both a training program offered
or approved by the Illinois Local Governmental Law Enforcement Officers
Training Board which substantially conforms to standards promulgated pursuant
to the Illinois Police Training Act ("An Act in relation to firearms training
for peace officers," approved August 29, 1975, as amended) 1  and a course in
fire and arson investigation at the National Fire Academy (120 hours) or one
approved by the Office of the State Fire Marshal (80 hours). In addition, any
such fire investigator shall also successfully complete the Police Training
Institute course (240 hours).
      5.   Privileges Restricted: Any such fire inspector may only exercise the
powers enumerated in this Section during the actual investigation of the cause,
origin and circumstances of such fire or explosions that are suspected to be
arson or arson-related crimes. (Ord. 81-32-62)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. ch. 85, §§ 501 et. seq.
7-1-9: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Authority to Inspect, Purpose: The Fire Chief and/or his designated
subordinates shall make or cause to be made frequent regular inspections to
secure efficient supervision of all buildings, structures or places used either
for manufacturing or commercial purposes, or occupied or frequented by large
numbers of people, and all school buildings, public halls, churches,
institutional buildings, theaters, multiple dwellings, and all places of
amusement, recreation or employment:
      1.   To determine the safety of the occupants in the event of fire, panic
or accident.
      2.   To examine the working order and repair of doors, fire escapes, fire
fighting appliances, the condition and maintenance of exits, corridors,
stairways and fire escapes and their approaches with regard to obstructions;
the disposition, quantity, arrangement and protection of stock, combustible
material and rubbish, heating devices and ovens, flammable liquids and
explosives with regard to safety from fires and the protection of hazardous
machinery, appliances and apparatus.
      3.   To ascertain whether the fire prevention regulations of the Village
are being efficiently carried out 1 .
   B.   Right of Entry to Inspect: The Fire Chief, or his designated
representative, and his subordinates are hereby empowered to enter a building,
structure or premises for the purpose of determining whether such building,
structure or premises has been or are being constructed and maintained in
accordance with the fire prevention regulations of the Village.
   C.   Detailing of Inspectors: The Chief of the Fire Department may detail
such members of the Fire Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be
necessary. The said Chief shall recommend to the Village Manager the employment
of technical inspectors, who, when such authorization is made, shall be
selected by the Village Manager. (Ord. 77-15-20; 1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 3 of this Title.
7-1-10: FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE OUT SIDE VILLAGE:
Members of the Fire Department are authorized to go outside the corporate
limits of the Village for the purpose of rendering aid to other fire
departments, cities or municipalities, in extinguishing fires or rendering aid
in case of accidents; provided, that the Fire Department shall not render such
service outside the corporate limits excepting on orders of the Fire Chief,
Village Manager or Village President; except when the Village has undertaken by
contract to render service to property outside the corporate limits of the
Village, the Fire Department may leave the corporate limits in fulfillment of
such contract. (Ord. 67-1-1)
7-1-11: UNIFORMS:
The officers and employees of the Fire Department shall provide themselves
with, and wear at all times when on duty, such suitable uniforms as the Fire
Chief may prescribe. (Ord. 67-1-1)
7-1-12: FIRE DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Repairs:
      1.   The Fire Chief shall, with the approval of the Village Manager,
whenever any fire engine, hose, cart or other apparatus or equipment shall
require immediate emergency repairs to be made in order to avoid delay in
keeping such equipment ready for immediate service, cause such repairs to be
made, such cost for both labor, material and repairs not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00). The Fire Chief shall immediately report, in writing, to the
Village Manager and President and Board of Trustees the facts relating to such
defective equipment and the estimated cost of such repairs.
      2.   Except as to such emergency repairs the Fire Chief shall, whenever
any fire engine, hose, cart, truck or other equipment or ap paratus shall
require repairs, report such fact in writing to the Village Manager and
President and Board of Trustees, indicating the amount and nature of repairs
required and if so authorized, shall cause such repairs to be made.
   B.   Driving Over Fire Hose: No wagon, streetcar, railroad car, automobile
or other vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department of the Village, when laid down on any street or alley by order of
the Fire Chief or other proper officer, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or officer or member in charge of such hose.
   C.   Use Of Fire Key Without Permission: Should any person have in his
possession or make or cause to be made, any key or keys of any engine or truck
house or fire alarm telegraph box, or use or cause to be used any such key
without the consent of the proper authority, every such person shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   D.   Opening Fire Signal Boxes, Interfering With System: No person except
those connected with the management of the Fire Department shall open any
signal box unless to communicate an alarm of fire, or break, cut, deface,
derange, or in any manner meddle or interfere with any signal box or fire
alarm, telegraph or telephone wires. (1951 Code 4-11; Ord. 67-1-1)
7-1-13: DUTIES OF CITIZENS:
   A.   Aid To Fire Department: It shall be lawful for the Fire Chief or other
officer in command of any fire company to require the aid of any motor truck or
automobile, or any citizen, inhabitant or bystander, in drawing or conveying
any engine or fire apparatus to any fire, and in working and using the same
while at a fire, and on refusal or neglect of any person to comply with such
requisition, the offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Obey Firemen: All persons in the vicinity of a fire or other emergency
shall be subject to the orders of the company commander or other member of the
Fire Department in charge. The company commander or other member in charge
shall have the power to arrest any person refusing to obey lawful orders issued
in accordance herewith and in the event any person shall persist in refusing to
obey such orders, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 67-1-1)
7-1-14: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Impersonating Firemen: Any person not a member of the Fire Department
who shall impersonate a fireman or officer of the Fire Department at a fire, or
going to or returning from a fire, by wearing a cap or badge or in any other
way, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Resisting, Interfering With Firemen: Any person who shall wilfully
resist or interfere with any officer or fireman in the performance of his duty
at a fire shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   C.   Salvage Of Property At Fires: No person shall be entitled to take away
any property in the possession of the Fire Department saved from any fire until
proof of ownership be made satisfactory to the Fire Chief or his subordinate.
(Ord. 67-1-1)
7-1-15: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Chapter or the Codes
adopted or fail to comply herewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made hereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved hereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued hereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such order as affirmed or modified by
the Village Board or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided
by Section
1-4-1 of this Code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced
removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 77-15-20)
7-1-16: DUI EMERGENCY RESPONSE FEES:
See Title 10, Chapter 1, Section
10-1-9 of this Code. (Ord. 91-09-35)
7-1-17: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE BOARD:
   A.   Creation: The Oak Lawn Foreign Fire Insurance Board (Board) is hereby
created to consist of four (4) members. Four (4) officers shall comprise the
Board and shall be elected from all employees of the Fire Department and shall
have full voting privileges on any matter before such Board:
      1.   President
      2.   Vice President
      3.   Treasurer
      4.   Secretary
The offices of the Board shall be filled by election by the employees of the
Fire Department. In addition to the officers as provided above, the Chief of
the Fire Department or his designee shall be an ex officio member, unless
otherwise elected to the Board at an election held in accordance with the
provisions of this Section. As an ex officio member, the Fire Chief shall not
have any voting privileges, but shall have the right to participate in all open
or closed session discussions regarding the management of foreign fire
insurance tax funds, preparation of annual budgets, or any other matter within
the scope of the powers and duties of the Board, and shall receive notice of
any regular or special meeting in the same manner given to any voting member.
   B.   Definition: The term "employee" as used in this Section shall mean any
full-time sworn firefighter, engineer or officer of the Oak Lawn Fire
Department, including the Fire Chief and all promoted positions. No
probationary employee of the Fire Department may hold an office during the
period of his probation.
   C.   Election: The initial and successive elections of the Board shall be
held prior to March 1, 1996 and March 1 in even-numbered years thereafter.
Officers shall take office on March 1 and shall serve up to and including the
last day of February two (2) years later. The terms for all officers shall be
two (2) years. The initial election shall be held in accordance with guidelines
and procedures established by the Village Attorney and, thereafter, the board
shall adopt all necessary rules and regulations governing the nomination and
election of such officers for subsequent elections.
   D.   Fund Established: An Oak Lawn Fire Department Foreign Fire Insurance
Tax Fund (the fund) is hereby created and all revenue received by the Village
from the Foreign Fire Insurance Tax, as provided for in section
3-2-8 of this Code, shall be deposited in the fund and shall be held and
expended according to the following procedures:
      1.   The Village Treasurer shall provide the Treasurer of the board a
monthly accounting of receipts and expenditures of the fund.
      2.   By September 1 of each year the officers of the board shall approve
a preliminary budget for the expenditure of the funds received pursuant to the
Foreign Fire Insurance Tax. The officers of the board shall, no later than
November 1 of each year adopt a final budget for the collection and expenditure
of the Foreign Fire Insurance Tax, to be approved by the President and Board of
Trustees, as part of the Village budget ordinance, in order to comply with the
statutory mandate of a prior appropriation for all expenditures. The final
budget may be amended at any time by a majority vote of the officers of the
board with the concurrence of the President and Board of Trustees consistent
with established practice. Expenditures shall be made only for items
specifically described in the final budget as originally adopted or
subsequently amended.
      3.   The board shall have the power to approve the expenditure of monies
from the fund for the maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department. Any
expenditure in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall be subject to
the approval of the President and Board of Trustees; provided, however, said
expenditure shall be approved if it is for the maintenance, use and benefit of
the Fire Department.
      4.   Any expenditure made from the fund shall be made in accordance with
Village rules and regulations, practices and ordinances, as may be amended from
time to time, which govern the procurement of goods and services.
      5.   No expenditure shall be made from the fund without approval of the
board.
      6.   The Board Treasurer shall annually give a bond, in an amount equal
to three (3) times the amount of Foreign Fire Insurance Tax revenue received by
the Village during the previous year, to the President and Board of Trustees to
ensure the faithful performance of the Board Treasurer of his duties imposed by
law and by board rules and regulations. Fees for said bond shall be paid from
the funds collected from the Foreign Fire Insurance Tax.
      7.   The Board Treasurer shall be responsible for paying the service
charge levied by the Illinois Municipal League for the collection of the
Foreign Fire Insurance Tax from the proceeds of the Foreign Fire Insurance Tax,
provided such fee is chargeable by State law, and provided that the service
charge has not already been retained by the Illinois Municipal League prior to
disbursement of the tax.
   E.   Meetings: The board shall, in accordance with the Open Meetings Act,
establish a regular time and place for its meetings. The President shall
preside at the meetings. The Secretary shall keep a record of all resolutions,
proceedings and actions of the board, and these records shall be open to the
public. Three (3) members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the
purposes of the approval of business before it. Special meetings, with
appropriate notice, may be called by the President or by no less than three (3)
members of the board. Any person shall be entitled to appear to be heard on any
matter before the board.
   F.   Duty: The board shall develop and maintain at all times an updated
listing of those items that the board feels are appropriate items to be funded
with Foreign Fire Insurance Tax revenues.
   G.   Rules And Regulations: The board may promulgate written rules and
regulations governing board matters so long as such rules and regulations are
not inconsistent with any applicable law. All rules and regulations promulgated
by the board must be approved by a majority of the President and Board of
Trustees in the same manner as for passage of Village ordinances. All rules and
regulations shall be posted in each fire station, the Oak Lawn Municipal
Complex, and a copy provided to the Village Clerk. Before any rule or
regulation shall become effective, such rule or regulation shall be filed with
the Village Clerk and shall be made available for public inspection. Rules or
regulations of the board shall become effective when approved by the President
and Board of Trustees. The Board Secretary shall maintain a record of all board
rules and regulations, which shall be available for public inspection.
   H.   Authority: At no time shall the actions of the board or its officers
interfere with the rights of the Fire Chief, the composition of the Fire
Department, the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, or in any way impede
the ordinary operation of the Fire Department.
   I.   Audit: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-10-2, as part of
the Village's annual audit, the Foreign Fire Insurance Tax funds shall be
audited to verify that the purchases made therewith are for the maintenance,
use and benefit of the Fire Department. (Ord. 95-24-111)
7-1-18: EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND RECOVERY FEE:
The Village hereby establishes cost mitigation rates for the deployment of
certain emergency services by the Fire Department of the Village for services
provided and/or rendered to residents and non-residents including the provision
of personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene of motor vehicle incidents
and other emergency incidents as set forth in this chapter, which are based on
the actual costs of the services and those costs that are usual, customary and
reasonable.
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply:
   FIRE INVESTIGATION:
   Fire Investigation Team: Fire investigation services include scene safety,
investigation, source identification, K-9/Arson Dog Unit, identification
equipment, mobile detection equipment and fire report. The claim begins when
the fire investigator or investigation team responds to the incident and is
billed for logged time only.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENTS:
   Level 1 - Basic Response: This level is the provision of basic response
services including engine response, first responder assignment, perimeter
establishment, evacuations, set-up and command.
   Level 2 - Intermediate Response: This level includes provision of level 1
services as well as hazmat certified team and appropriate equipment, level A or
B suit donning, breathing air, detection equipment and set-up and removal of
decontamination center as necessary.
   Level 3 - Advanced Response: This level includes provisions of levels 1 and
2 services as well as robot deployment, recovery and identification of
material, disposal and environmental cleanup. This level also includes any
disposal rates for contaminated equipment and material used at scene.
   MOTOR VEHICLE INCIDENTS:
   Level 1: This level is the provision of hazardous materials assessment,
scene stabilization and basic response services.
   Level 2: This level includes provision of level 1 services, as well as clean
up and material used for hazardous fluid clean-up and disposal. Billing at this
level will occur if the Fire Department of the Village must clean up any
gasoline or other automotive fluids that are spilled as a result of the
accident or incident.
   Level 3: This level relates to the extinguishment of a car fire, provision
of scene safety, fire suppression, breathing air, rescue tools, hand tools,
hose, tip use, foam, exposure protection, and clean-up of gasoline or other
automotive fluids that are spilled as a result of the accident or incident.
   Level 4: This level includes provisions of levels 1 and 2 services, as well
as the use of extrication tools (heavy rescue tools, ropes, airbags, cribbing,
etc.). Billing at this level will occur if the Fire Department of the Village
is required to free or remove anyone from the vehicle(s) using any powered
equipment. Billing at this level will not occur if the person to be extricated
is unconscious or unable to move and the Fire Department is able to open a door
to the vehicle to access and safely remove the person.
   Level 5: This level includes provisions of levels 1, 2 and 4 services as
well as aeromedical response coordination (multi-engine company response,
mutual aid, and helicopter). Billing will occur at this level any time a
helicopter is utilized to transport the patient(s).
   Level 6 - Itemized Response: In the case of an unusual incident, the Fire
Department of the Village may bill each incident as an independent incident
with actual costs and/or customary mitigation rates using itemized rates deemed
usual, customary and reasonable. Such incidents will be billed using itemized
amounts for apparatus and personnel, plus products and equipment used.
   NONRESIDENT: Any person not residing within the corporate limits of the
Village who requires emergency services of any type, whether knowingly or
unknowingly, by the Oak Lawn Fire Department.
   PIPELINE INCIDENTS/POWER LINE INCIDENTS: Includes, but not limited to: gas,
sewer, septic to sewer, and water pipelines:
   Level 1 - Basic Response: This level is the provision of basic response
services including engine response, first responder assignment, perimeter
establishment, evacuations, first responder set-up and command. This level also
includes inspection without damage or breakage.
   Level 2 - Intermediate Response: This level includes provision of level 1
services as well as hazmat certified team and appropriate equipment, level A or
B suit donning, breathing air, detection equipment, and the supervision and/or
assisting of pipeline repair.
   Level 3 - Itemized Response: In the case of an unusual incident, the Fire
Department of the Village may bill each incident as an independent incident
with actual costs and/or customary mitigation rates using itemized rates deemed
usual, customary and reasonable. Such incidents will be billed using itemized
amounts for apparatus and personnel, plus products and equipment used.
   SPECIAL RESCUE:
   Itemized Response: Each incident will be billed in accordance with actual
costs and/or customary mitigation rates using itemized rates deemed usual,
customary and reasonable, subject to the minimum amounts set forth above. Such
incidents will be billed using itemized amounts for each apparatus and each
trained rescue person per hour, plus rescue products and equipment used.
   WATER INCIDENTS:
   Level 1 - Basic Response: This level is the provision of basic response
services including engine response, first responder assignment, perimeter
establishment, evacuations, first responder set-up and command, scene safety
and investigation (including possible patient contact and hazard control).
   Level 2 - Intermediate Response: This level is the provision of level 1
services as well as clean-up and material used (sorbents), minor hazardous
clean-up and disposal. Billing will occur at this level if the Fire Department
of the Village must clean up small amounts of gasoline or other fluids that are
spilled as a result of the incident.
   Level 3 - Advanced Response: This level is the provisions of levels 1 and 2
services as well as MABAS (Mutual Aid Box Alarm System) activation, donning
breathing apparatus, detection equipment, set up and removal of decontamination
center, recovery and identification of material, and disposal and environment
clean up. This level also includes any disposal rates of contaminated equipment
and material used at scene.
   B.   Fee Established: The following fees shall be charged to any nonresident
or resident for insurance covered costs who utilizes the emergency services of
the Oak Lawn Fire Department:
Fire investigations:
 Level 1           $ 275.00/hour
Hazardous materials incidents:
 Level 1           700.00
 Level 2           2,500.00
 Level 3           5,900.00
 Hazmat technician 50.00/hour
Motor vehicle incidents:
 Level 1           487.00
 Level 2           554.00
 Level 3           677.00
 Level 4           1,800.00
 Level 5           2,200.00
 Level 6           Itemized
Pipeline/power line incidents:
 Level 1           400.00
 Level 2           1,250.00
 Level 3           Itemized
Special rescue:
 Technician        Itemized
Water incidents:
 Level 1           400.00
 Level 2           800.00
 Level 3           2,000.00
 Technician        50.00/hour
 
   C.   Implementation And Procedures: The mitigation rates above are flat
fees, except for itemized responses, and have been determined to be usual,
customary and reasonable for the incident responses listed. The mitigation
rates were determined by itemizing costs for a typical incident (from the time
a fire apparatus leaves the station until it returns to the station) and are
based on the actual costs, using amortized schedules for apparatus (including
useful life, equipment, repairs, and maintenance) and labor rates (based upon
an average department's "actual personnel expense", and not just a
firefighter's base wage). The actual personnel expense includes, but not by way
of limitation, costs such as wages, retirement benefits, workers' compensation,
and insurance. When a claim is submitted, it will be itemized and based on the
actual services provided in accordance with the above rates.
The mitigation rates shall represent an additional cost of the claim for
damages of the vehicles, property and/or injuries, and shall be filed with the
insurance carrier of the owner of the titled vehicle, owner of the property, or
the responsible party or parties. In certain circumstances the responsible
party will be billed directly.
Responses involving intoxicated drivers, hazmat clean-up, intentional or
negligent acts, or any act that violates any local, State or Federal law or
regulation, may be subject to all applicable mitigation rates.
   D.   Collection: The Village shall cause a bill to be issued to non-
residents or residents for insurance covered costs and sent for the emergency
service. Interest shall accumulate and be due upon such fee at the rate of one
percent (1%) per month commencing as of the thirtieth day following the mailing
of the bill. All fees collected in conformance with this chapter shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the Village or other fund for the purpose of
providing funds for future replacement of life- safety vehicles or equipment as
may be determined by the Corporate Authorities of the Village. (Ord. 18-12-42)
CHAPTER 2
AMBULANCE SERVICE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Ambulance Service Provided
7-2-2: Service Area
7-2-3: Hospitals Designated For Delivery
7-2-4: Fees
7-2-5: DUI Emergency Response Fees
7-2-1: AMBULANCE SERVICE PROVIDED:
The Fire Department shall provide ambulance and rescue service in cases of
emergency requiring the prehospital care and transportation of persons who are
sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless at the time of
the dispatch of a Fire Department vehicle.
Except when personnel or equipment is needed for continued lifesaving support,
the Fire Chief shall assure that neither personnel nor equipment is unduly
delayed in:
   A.   Its dispatch to or departure from the scene;
   B.   Transportation to and/or from the hospital; or
   C.   Within a hospital. (Ord. 77-27-47)
7-2-2: SERVICE AREA:
The response area shall be limited to the territory within the corporate limits
of the Village. Service outside corporate limits shall be limited to:
   A.   Circumstances governed by contract or mutual aid agreement; and
   B.   Extreme lifesaving necessity. (Ord. 77-27-47)
7-2-3: HOSPITALS DESIGNATED FOR DELIVERY:
The Fire Department shall transport persons only to one of the following
hospitals:
   A.   Christ Community Hospital, Oak Lawn, Illinois;
   B.   Little Company of Mary Hospital, Evergreen Park, Illinois;
   C.   Palos Community Hospital, Palos Heights, Illinois.
Provided, however, that in exceptional circumstances, the Fire Chief may
authorize the transportation of persons to other hospitals that have specialist
physicians or special equipment and facilities not available at the above
mentioned hospitals. (Ord. 77-27-47)
7-2-4: FEES:
Fees for ambulance services and prehospital care provided by the Village Fire
Department shall be charged to the individual receiving said services, or said
individual's estate, in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Services                                                Resident  Nonresident
Ambulance service                                       $2,300.00 $2,300.00
Extrication                                             500.00    500.00
Mileage (as measured from the location of the ambulance 25.00     25.00
call to the hospital, per mile or portion thereof)
Special service (assist back to bed, assist to the      100.00    100.00
vehicle or into the home after the third incident)
 
Any individual receiving ambulance service hereunder who has insurance coverage
for such service shall be requested to submit a claim therefor to his/her
insurance company(ies) to reimburse the Village for such charges. In the event
that an insurance company refuses to pay said charges or only pays a portion of
said charges, the individual receiving the ambulance service or said
individual's estate shall be responsible for payment of the unpaid charges.
(Ords. 18-24-84, 22-11-34)
7-2-5: DUI EMERGENCY RESPONSE FEES:
The charges relative to emergency responses in regards to DUI cases will be as
provided for in section
7-1-18 of this title regardless of residency. (Ord. 17-06-14)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE CODES
SECTION:
7-3-1: International Fire Code
7-3-2: Life Safety Code (Rep. by Ord. 97-20-78)
7-3-3: Investigation Of Complaints
7-3-4: Appeals
7-3-5: Violations And Penalties
7-3-1: INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
   A.   Code Adopted:
      1.   International Code Adopted: The International Fire Code 2018, and
its appendices A, B, C and D, is adopted as the "Fire Code for the Village of
Oak Lawn", for the control of buildings and structures as provided; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
International Fire Code 2018, are adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this code with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes
prescribed in this chapter.
   Reference in this chapter to "this code" is a reference to the International
Fire Code, 2018, and such reference includes that document and any amendments,
or supplements thereto. References in this code to "the building code" shall
mean the adopted "building code for the village of Oak Lawn" as set forth in
section
6-1D-1  of this code.
      2.   State Adopted Code: Pursuant to the Fire Investigation Act, 425 ILCS
25/0.01 et seq. 1 , the Illinois office of the state fire marshal has adopted
the National Fire Protection Association Life Safety Code, 2000 edition, as the
“Fire Code for the State of Illinois” serving as the state's minimum level of
fire prevention and safety. This adoption is made at 41 Illinois administrative
code 100. In conjunction with the authority granted by the fire investigation
act, NFPA Life Safety Code, 2000 edition, is the minimum requirement that must
be met statewide in Illinois.
   The NFPA Life Safety Code, 2000 edition, is applicable statewide in all
occupancy classifications. The village of Oak Lawn shall enforce as a minimum
the NFPA life safety code requirements or the International Fire Code , 2018,
requirements that are equivalent to, or more stringent than, those imposed by
the Illinois OSFM adopted code.
   B.   Amendments To Code: The International Fire Code, 2018, is amended and
changed as follows:
   SECTION 101 SCOPE AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
   1.   [A] 101.1 Title.
      Replace the language of the Code with the following, "These regulations
shall be known as the Fire Code of the Village of Oak Lawn and hereinafter
referred to as 'this code'."
   2.   Add Section 102.7.1 Conflicting code information.
      Where any provision of International Fire Code 2018, conflict with any
provisions of this Village Code, the provisions of the Village Code shall
prevail and shall be applied as law of the Village.
   SECTION 103 DEPARTMENT OF FIRE PREVENTION
   3.   [A] 103.2 Appointment.
      Add the following language at the end of the first sentence, "and shall
be the designated authority charged with the administration and enforcement of
the code, or a duly authorized representative.
   SECTION 105 PERMITS
   4.   [A] 105.4.6 Retention of construction documents.
      Add the following language in the first sentence after Fire Code
official, "or building official"
      Delete the following language, "shall be returned to the applicant, and
said set"
   SECTION 106 FEES
   5.   [A] 106.2 Schedule of permit fees.
      A fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the
schedule as established by the applicable governing authority.
      Fee Schedule: See Exhibit A
   SECTION 110 VIOLATIONS
   6.   [A] 110.4 Violation penalties.
      Change the language to read as follows: "Persons who shall violate a
provision of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements
thereof or who shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of
the approved construction documents or directive of the fire code official, or
of a permit or certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty
of a [SPECIFY OFFENSE], a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than [AMOUNT] seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750) or by imprisonment not exceeding [NUMBER OF DAYS] one hundred
eighty (180) days for each offense, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each
day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed
a separate offense (VOL 1-4-1).
      The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions."
   SECTION 112 STOP WORK ORDER
   7.   [A] 112.4 Failure to comply.
      Change the language to read as follows: "Any person who shall continue
any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as
that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition,
shall be liable to a fine of not less than [AMOUNT] dollars or more than
[AMOUNT] dollars. not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750).
      The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions."
   SECTION 307 OPEN BURNING, RECREATIONAL FIRES AND PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACES
   8.   307.2 Permit required.
      Add the following language, "Completed application and copies of permits
obtained from all appropriate state and local governmental agencies shall be
provided to the fire code official no less than ten (10) business days prior to
the event."
   9.   307.2.1 Authorization.
      Delete current Code language and replace with the following,
"Authorization shall be obtained from all appropriate state and local
governmental agencies including, but not limited to, Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency, Cook County Department of Environmental Control, the Oak
Lawn Fire Department, the Oak Lawn Park District (Wolfe Wildlife Refuge).
Copies of permits obtained from all appropriate state and local governmental
agencies shall be provided to the Oak Lawn Fire Department no less than ten
(10) business days prior to the event."
   10.   307.3 Extinguishment authority.
      Delete current Code language and replace with the following, "Any fire
considered by the fire code official to be a nuisance or hazard shall be
extinguished immediately. Open burning operations and recreational fires that
will be offensive or objectionable because of smoke or odor emissions and any
fires, when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires
hazardous, shall be prohibited. The fire code official is authorized to order
the immediate extinguishment, by the permit holder or by the fire department,
of any fire creating a nuisance or hazardous situation."
   11.   307.4.3 Portable outdoor fireplaces.
      Delete current code language and replace with the following, "Approved
portable outdoor fireplaces shall be used in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions and shall be tested and certified for product safety by
Underwriters Laboratories (UL) or Factory Mutual (FM).
      Approved portable outdoor fireplaces shall be completely enclosed (solid
material or heavy-duty screening or both) with or without a stack or chimney,
but those burning combustible materials shall have a screen at the top to
prevent large embers that may cause a fire from escaping into the atmosphere.
      Approved portable outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated within 15'
feet of any combustible material, including, but not limited to, buildings and
structures, fences, and decks, or ten (10) feet of all property lot lines. Also
Reference VOL
7-4-1 Open Burning"
   SECTION 308 OPEN FLAMES
   12.   308.1.4 Open-flame cooking devices.
      Replace current Code language with the following, "Charcoal burners
(barbeques) or any other open-flame cooking devices, including, but not limited
to, LPG gas grills, smokers, deep fryers, shall not be operated within ten (10)
feet of combustible construction. No cooking devices shall be operated or
located on combustible balconies.
      Delete paragraphs 2 and 3 of the exceptions.
   SECTION 311 VACANT PREMISES
   13.   311.2.2 Fire protection.
      Delete exceptions.
   SECTION 505 PREMISES IDENTIFICATION
   14.   505.1 Address identification.
      Delete current Code language and replace with the following, "New and
existing buildings shall have approved address numbers, building numbers or
approved building identification placed in a location that shall be plainly
visible from the street or road fronting the property. Address numbers,
building numbers or approved building identification shall be affixed to the
rear of all tenant space exterior doors in multi-tenant occupancies. Where
required by the fire code official, address numbers shall be provided in
additional approved locations to facilitate emergency response.
      Address numbers shall be Arabic numbers or alphabetical letters and
address numbers shall be a minimum of six (6) inches high with a minimum with a
minimum stroke width of one-half (1/2) inch wide. Residential address numbers
are allowed to be reduced to 4 inches in height. The location of the address
numbers shall be approved by the Fire Code Official.
      These numbers shall contrast with their background. Address numbers on
glass doors, windows, or store fronts shall be white in color.
      Where access is by means of a private road and the building cannot be
viewed from the public way, a monument, pole or other sign or means shall be
used to identify the structure. Address numbers shall be maintained."
   SECTION 506 KEY BOXES
   15.   506.1 Where required.
      Delete last sentence of the current Code language and add the following
language, "An approved key box shall be installed on all commercial buildings
and all Group R-2 occupancies containing (3) or more dwelling units. The key
box shall be obtained from the fire department's designated agent, and shall
contain keys to gain necessary access as required by the fire code official.
      The key box shall be installed in an approved location in close proximity
to the main entrance or where readily accessible and immediately available for
use by fire department personnel. The bottom of the key box shall be mounted no
less than sixty (60) inches from ground level and the top of the key box shall
be mounted no more than seventy-two (72) inches from ground level."
   SECTION 507 FIRE PROTECTION WATER SUPPLIES
   16.   507.1 Required water supply.
      Delete the following language, "premises upon which facilities, buildings
or portions of buildings are hereafter constructed or moved into or within the
jurisdiction." And replace with the following language, "newly constructed
buildings and structures and to existing buildings and structures having the
area or height enlarged.
      All buildings or structures shall be served by a public water supply
system meeting the following criteria. The system shall be under pressure with
an average static pressure of not less than 35 pounds per square inch (psi).
Flow tests shall be conducted in accordance with NFPA 291 listed in Chapter 44.
Flow tests shall be calculated at 20 psi residual pressure. The supplies shall
be available for a four (4) hour duration.
      No part of any building or structure shall be over 300 feet from at least
one public fire hydrant."
   17.   507.5.1 Where required.
      Delete language and exceptions and replace with the following: Fire
hydrants shall be located along a fire apparatus access road so that no portion
of the building or structure will be over 300 feet from a single fire hydrant.
Additional hydrants and mains shall be provided where required by the fire code
official.
   18.   Add: 507.5.7 Fire Hydrant Installation.
      Fire hydrants shall be installed so that:
      a.   Fire hydrant shall be located along a public street or approved fire
apparatus access road.
      b.   Fire hydrant shall be located at each intersection with intermediate
hydrants provided so that distance between hydrants does not exceed three
hundred (300) feet.
      c.   At least one fire hydrant shall be located within 300 feet of the
building or structure.
      d.   Fire hydrant shall be located approximately ten (10) feet from all-
weather roadways. If this cannot be done, the closest part of the hydrant shall
be set back at least two (2) feet from the curb line.
      e.   Fire hydrant shall have two 2 1/2 inch outlets and one 4 1/2 inch
(steamer) outlet. The 4 1/2 inch (steamer) outlet shall face the primary
roadway.
      f.   Fire hydrant outlets shall be a minimum eighteen (18) inches and no
greater than thirty-six (36) inches above the finished grade.
      g.   Fire hydrant used in conjunction with the water supply shall be of a
type approved by the fire code official.
   SECTION 806 NATURAL DECORATIVE VEGETATION IN NEW AND EXISTING BUILDINGS
   19.   806.1.1 Restricted occupancies.
      Delete language and replace with the following: Natural cut trees shall
be prohibited in Group A, B, E, F, H, I, M, R-1, R-2, R-4, and S occupancies.
      Exception: Delete number one.
   SECTION 901 GENERAL
   20.   Add the following two sections:
      901.4.7   Fire Sprinkler Contractors:
      The Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshal requires any person,
partnership, corporation or other business entity that installs or repairs any
fire sprinkler system in Illinois to be licensed. The Fire Sprinkler Contractor
Licensing Act [225 ILCS 317/1 et seq.] establishes the minimum standards for
licensure of
      fire sprinkler installation contractors for the purpose of protecting the
public health and general welfare of the citizens of Illinois. A copy of the
fire sprinkler contractor's license shall be submitted with the construction
documents.
      901.4.8 Fire Alarm Contractor:
      The Illinois Department of Professional Regulation requires those who
design and install fire alarm systems to be licensed. Specifically, 225 ILCS
446 entitled the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security, and
Locksmith Act of 1983 defines a "private alarm contractor" as any person who
engages in a business that sells, installs, monitors, maintains, alters,
repairs, replaces, services, or responds to alarm systems, including fire alarm
systems. A copy of the fire alarm contractor's license shall be submitted with
the construction documents.
   21.   901.5 Installation acceptance testing.
      Delete: "before any required acceptance testing." And replace with: not
less than forty-eight (48) hours prior to scheduling any required acceptance
testing. Electronic as built drawings for all Fire Protection shall be sent to
oaklawnfp@oaklawn-il.gov .
   22.   901.6.3 Records.
      Add the following language: "Records shall be submitted electronically to
the Fire Code Official at oaklawnfp@oaklawn-il.gov within 30 days of
completion. Failure shall result in fee(s) and or fine(S)."
   23.   Add: 901.7.7 Fire Watch Required:
      The fire code official may require a fire watch upon any premises on
which dangerous or hazardous conditions exist. Conditions that may require a
fire watch shall include, but are not limited to, the following circumstances:
      1.   Newly constructed building opened for occupancy prior to completion
of the fire safety equipment and supervision.
      2.   Building in which the fire safety equipment and supervision is
placed out of service and will not be restored within one (1) hour.
      3.   Any time the occupant load is greater than the posted number
established for the occupancy.
      4.   Programs or events where there will be standing room in addition to
the seating area and the aisles and exits will accommodate the cumulative
occupant load of standing and seated people.
      5.   Any time additional crowd management is deemed necessary by the fire
code official.
   24.   901.8 Removal of or tampering with equipment.
      Add the following language:
      No person shall reset or silence an activated fire signal prior to fire
department personnel investigating the cause of the alarm, unless directed to
do by the fire code official or a duly authorized representative. If a Fire
Alarm is reset prior to the arrival of Fire Department personnel one (1)
warning will be given (not per calendar year) then for the second offense the
fine will be $600 and $1200 for the third and any additional occurrences. If
the issue continues past the third time the fee schedule shall apply and
citation(s) for Tampering with a Fire Protection Device that was NOT approved
by the Fire Code Official can be issued.
      Exception: A known or obvious non-emergency activation may be silenced
but not reset.
   SECTION 903 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
   25.   903.2 Where required.
      Add the following language:
      Approved automatic sprinkler systems in new buildings and structures
shall be provided in all locations where the fire area 3,500 sq. ft. or where
the building is > 3 stories above grade.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Approved automatic sprinkler systems shall not be required in open
parking structures with roof level < 40 ft. above fire department vehicle
access.
   26.   903.2.1.1 Group A-1.
      Change 12,000 in paragraph 1 to 3,500 and change 300 in paragraph 2 to
200.
   27.   903.2.1.2 Group A-2.
      Change 5,000 in paragraph 1 to 3,500.
   28.   903.2.1.3 Group A-3.
      Change 12,000 in paragraph 1 to 3,500 and change 300 in paragraph 2 to
200.
   29.   903.2.1.4 Group A-4.
      Change 12,000 in paragraph 1 to 3,500 and change 300 in paragraph 2 to
200.
   30.   903.2.1.6 Assembly occupancies on roofs.
      Change 300 to 200 for all other Group A occupancies in the first
sentence.
   31.   903.2.2 Ambulatory care facilities.
      Delete the following language: "where either of the following conditions
exist at any time:
      1.   Four or more care recipients are incapable of self-preservation,
whether rendered incapable by staff or staff has accepted responsibility for
care recipients already incapable.
      2.   One or more care recipients that are incapable of self-preservation
are
      located at other than the level of exit discharge serving such a
facility."
   32.   903.2.3 Group E.
      Delete all language after "Group E occupancies" in the first sentence.
      Delete exceptions.
   33.   903.2.4 Group F-1.
      Change 12,000 in paragraph 1 to 3,500.
      Delete paragraphs 2 and 3.
      Delete the following language from paragraph 4: "exceeds 2,500 square
feet (232 m2)."
   34.   903.2.6 Group I.
      Delete the exceptions.
   35.   903.2.7 Group M.
      Change 12,000 in paragraph 1 to 3,500.
      Delete paragraphs 2 and 3.
      Change 5,000 in paragraph 4 to 3,500.
   36.   903.2.9 Group S-1.
      Change 12,000 in paragraph 1 to 3,500.
      Delete paragraphs 2 and 3.
      Change 5,000 in paragraph 4 to 3,500.
      Delete the following language from paragraph 5: "exceeds 2,500 square
feet (232 m2)."
   37.   903.2.9.1 Repair garages.
      Change 10,000 in paragraph 1 to 3,500.
      Change 12,000 in paragraph 2 to 3,500.
      Change 5,000 in paragraph 4 to 3,500.
   38.   903.2.9.2 Bulk storage of tires.
      Change 20,000 to 10,000.
   39.   903.2.10 Group S-2 enclosed parking garages.
      Delete paragraphs 1 and 2 and exception.
   40.   903.2.10.1 Commercial parking garages.
      Change 5,000 to 3,500.
   41.   Add the following section: 903.2.10.2 Group S-2 Open Parking
Structures.
      An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout buildings
classified as open automobile parking structures where the roof parking level ?
40 ft. above fire department vehicle access (3 or more tiers and roof parking).
   42.   Delete Section: 903.2.11.3 Buildings 55 feet or more in height,
including exceptions.
   43.   903.3.7 Fire department connections.
      Add the following language: "within one hundred (100) feet of a fire
hydrant and shall be" before the language "approved by the fire code official."
   44.   903.4 Sprinkler system supervision and alarms.
      Delete paragraph 2 of the exceptions.
   45.   903.4.1 Monitoring.
      Delete current language and replace with the following: "Alarm,
supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different and shall be
automatically transmitted by an approved wireless transceiver directly to Oak
Lawn Regional Emergency Communications."
   SECTION 904 ALTERNATIVE AUTOMATIC FIRE-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEMS
   46.   904.3 Installation.
      Add the following language: "All new alternative automatic fire-
extinguishing systems and all new kitchen hood automatic fire-extinguishing
suppression systems shall be monitored by the building fire alarm system."
   47.   904.3.5 Monitoring.
      Delete the following language "Where a building fire alarm system is
installed, automatic" and replace with the following word: Automatic
   48.   904.4.2 Alarm testing.
      Delete "approved supervising stations" and replace with "Oak Lawn
Emergency Regional Communications"
   49.   904.11.5 Portable fire extinguishers for commercial cooking equipment.
      Add the following language: "All other extinguishers not specifically
classified for the protection of Class K fires shall be removed from the room
or area housing the commercial-type cooking equipment."
   SECTION 905 STANDPIPE SYSTEMS
   50.   905.1 General.
      Add the following language: "Each standpipe shall be equipped with
approved hose connection/outlet valve which discharges horizontally at a height
of forty-two (42) inches from the finished floor to the centerline of the
valve. The outlet valve shall be placed to provide a minimum clearance of six
(6) inches on all sides of the handle and twelve (12) inches on all sides of
the threaded outlet."
   SECTION 906 PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
   51.   906.1 Where required.
      Add the following, "Use Group U - Utility/Miscellaneous shall have
approved portable extinguishers installed in compliance with NFPA 10 at the
direction of the AHJ."
      Delete exceptions.
   52.   906.2 General requirements.
      Add the following language before the language of the adopted Code: "The
minimum rated portable fire extinguisher installed shall be a 3-A, 40-B, C -
rated extinguisher, and the maximum travel distance to an extinguisher shall be
fifty (50) feet.
      A minimum of one (1) portable fire extinguisher shall be installed per
floor in a multistory building.
      Exception: If there is no common hallway running the length of the
building in a multistory building, a minimum of one (1) portable fire
extinguisher shall be installed in each stairwell.
   53.   Delete Section 906.3.
   54.   906.5 Conspicuous location.
      Add the following language: "All locations shall be approved by the fire
code official."
   55.   906.6 Unobstructed and unobscured.
      Add the following language: "All locations shall be approved by the fire
code official."
   56.   906.8 Cabinets.
      Add the following language: "All new construction shall have portable
fire extinguishers housed in approved recessed or semi recessed cabinets unless
otherwise approved by the Fire Code Official. Cabinets shall be conspicuously
marked so as to be easily identified from all directions. The location of the
cabinet shall be in compliance with NFPA 10 and shall be approved by the fire
department. The approved cabinet shall be manufactured with materials that will
not cause harm or injury to the individual accessing the extinguisher. Any
cabinet installed within a fire rated wall shall provide the appropriate level
of protection to ensure the integrity of the firewall without affecting its
fire rating."
   SECTION 907 FIRE ALARM AND DETECTION SYSTEMS
   57.   907.1 General.
      Add the following language:
      “It shall be the responsibility of the alarm user to install, test,
inspect and maintain an approved fire alarm system in an operative condition at
all times, in compliance with all Village adopted codes including the
International Building Code, 2018 Edition, the International Fire Code, 2018
Edition and NFPA 72 - National Fire Alarm Code, 2019 Edition.
      An approved fire alarm system shall consist of smoke detectors, heat
detectors, manual alarm-initiating devices, sprinkler water flow detectors and
tamper switches (if applicable), audible and visible notification appliances
and annunciation at fire department point of entry. The approved fire alarm
system shall provide complete coverage of the building and shall comply with
all applicable codes.
      In addition:
      1.   Addressable fire alarm systems shall be installed, unless other
application/installation approved by the fire code official.
      2.   Visible notification appliances shall remain active (flashing) when
the automatic and manual fire alarm system is silenced.
      3.   Exterior waterproof visible notification appliance shall be
installed in an approved location on the address-side of the building or other
location approved by the fire code official.
      4.   Activated duct smoke detectors shall initiate a supervisory signal
at a constantly attended location.
      5.   An approved key box shall be installed.
      6.   A detailed zone/device map shall be posted next to the fire alarm
control panel and annunciator panel (if applicable). A copy of said maps shall
be submitted to the fire department for approval. An acceptable zone map shall
include the following information:
         a.   Minimum size of 8-1/2" x 11" and shall be clear and legible.
         b.   Framed and mounted or protected by other acceptable means.
         c.   Simplified floor plan map showing zone/device locations.
         d.   Map shall indicate location of alarm panel and annunciator panels
and all addressable devices and related controls. If symbols are used, a symbol
legend shall be provided.
      7.   Approved fire alarm systems shall be installed in compliance with
the NFPA 70 - National Electrical Code (NEC), 2020 Edition.
      Exception: The installation of an approved automatic fire alarm system in
all Educational occupancies, Institutional occupancy Groups I-2, I-3 and I-
4 and any other occupancy deemed necessary by the AHJ shall be enclosed
completely within metallic conduit.
      8.   All approved fire alarm systems shall transmit trouble, supervisory,
and fire signals directly to the Oak Lawn Regional Emergency Communications
Center remote supervising station via a wireless radio transceiver installed
and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 - National Fire Alarm Code, 2019
Edition and International Building Code, Chapter 9 - Fire Protection Systems,
2018 edition. All alarm contractors, alarm businesses and alarm supervising
stations shall be approved by the fire code official.
      The fire alarm contractor supervising the automatic fire alarm system
design and installation shall be licensed by the State of Illinois Department
of Professional Regulations, per the Illinois Private Detective, Private Alarm,
Private Security and Locksmith Act of 1983."
   58.   907.1.2 Fire alarm shop drawings.
      Add the following language: "Shop drawings for fire alarm systems shall
be drawn by an automatic fire alarm contractor licensed by the State of
Illinois Department of Professional Regulations or a State of Illinois licensed
architect.
      3 sets of plans shall be delivered to the Village of Oak Lawn Building
Division at 9446 Raymond Avenue, Oak Lawn, IL (lower level). One set of plans
will/may then be forwarded to a third party consulting firm for review.
      Absolutely no work shall begin on the installation of the fire alarm
system prior to receiving an approved plan review from the fire code official
and obtaining a fire alarm permit from the Village of Oak Lawn Building
Division."
   59.   907.2 Where required-new buildings and structures.
      Add the following language: "All new buildings and structures shall have
an approved fire alarm system installed, except single-family dwellings, two-
family dwellings, and related accessory structures."
   60.   907.2.1 Group A.
      Delete language, including exceptions and replace with the following: "An
approved fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification system in
accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all Group A occupancies."
   61.   907.2.2 Group B.
      Delete language, including exceptions and replace with the following: "An
approved fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification system in
accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all Group B occupancies."
   62.   907.2.3 Group E.
      Delete "a manual" and replace with "An approved."
   63.   907.2.4 Group F.
      Delete language, including exceptions and replace with the following: "An
approved fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification system in
accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all Group F
occupancies."   
   64.   907.2.5 Group H.
      Delete "a manual" and replace with "An approved."
   65.   907.2.6 Group I.
      Delete "a manual" and replace with "An approved."
   66.   907.2.7 Group M.
      Delete language and replace with the following: "An approved fire alarm
system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with
Section 907.5 shall be installed in all Group M occupancies."
      Delete paragraph 2 of the exceptions.
   67.   Delete Section 907.2.7.1.
   68.   907.2.8 Group R-1.
      Delete language and replace with the following, "An approved fire alarm
system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with
Section 907.5 shall be installed in all Group R-1 occupancies."
   69.   Delete Section 907.2.8.1, including exceptions
   70.   907.2.9 Group R-2.
      Delete language and replace with the following, "An approved fire alarm
system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with
Section 907.5 shall be installed in all Group R-2 occupancies."
   71.   Delete Section 907.2.9.1, including exceptions.
   72.   907.2.9.3 Group R-2 college and university buildings.
      Delete the following language, "An automatic smoke detection system that
activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5
shall be installed in Group R-2 college and university buildings" and replace
with the following language: "An approved fire alarm system that activates the
occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be
installed in all Group R-2 college and university buildings"
      Delete the exception.
   73.   907.2.10 Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms.
      Add the following language: "Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms
shall also comply with the Smoke Detector Act, 425 ILCS 60, for required smoke
alarm installation and building owner and tenant responsibilities regarding
testing, inspection and maintenance of smoke alarms. State laws are enforced
through the Illinois Attorney General's Office."
   74.   907.2.13 High-rise buildings.
      Delete paragraphs 2, 4, 5, and 6 of the exceptions.
   75.   907.7 Acceptance tests and completion.
      Add the following language: "The fire code official shall be notified not
less than forty-eight (48) hours prior to scheduling any required acceptance
testing."
   76.   907.7.2 Record of completion.
      Add the following language: "Contractor shall provide electronic as
builts of the approved Fire Alarm drawings in addition to the Record of
Completion. The as builts can be sent to oaklawnfp@oaklawn-il.gov ."
   77.   907.8.5 Inspection, testing & Maintenance.
      Add the following language: "Records shall be submitted electronically to
the Fire Code Official at oaklawnfp@oaklawn-il.gov within 30 days of
completion. Failure shall result in fee(s) and or fine(S)."
   78.   907.9 Where required in existing buildings and structures.
      Replace the language with the following, "All existing buildings shall
have an approved automatic fire alarm system installed except single-family
dwellings, two-family dwellings, and related accessory structures."
   SECTION 909 SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS
   79.   909.19 Acceptance testing.
      Add the following language, "The fire code official shall be notified not
less than forty-eight (48) hours prior to scheduling any required acceptance
testing."
   SECTION 912 FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS
   80.   912.2 Location.
      Add the following language before "shall be approved by the fire chief,"
"The location of fire department connections shall be within 100 feet of a fire
hydrant and"
   SECTION 913 FIRE PUMPS
   81.   913.5.1 Acceptance test.
      Add the following language, "The fire code official shall be notified not
less than forty-eight (48) hours prior to scheduling any required acceptance
testing."
   SECTION 914 FIRE PROTECTION BASED ON SPECIAL DETAILED REQUIREMENTS OF USE
AND OCCUPANCY
   82.   Delete the exceptions to Section 914.2.1
   83.   914.3.1 Automatic sprinkler system.
      Delete paragraph 1 of the exceptions.
   SECTION 915 Carbon Monoxide Detection
   84.   915.4 Carbon monoxide alarms.
      Add the following language to the exceptions: "Carbon monoxide alarms
shall also comply with the, Carbon Monoxide Alarm Detector Act, 430 ILCS 135,
for required carbon monoxide alarm installation and building owner and tenant
responsibilities regarding testing, inspection and maintenance of smoke alarms.
State laws are enforced through the Illinois Attorney General's Office."
   SECTION 1001 ADMINISTRATION
   85.   Add the following Section: 1001.1.1 Building Code Conformance.
      The sections and subsections of this Chapter 10 shall not conflict with
any of the building code requirements shown in the Village Code. Where similar
specification items are regulated, the Building Code shall apply as determined
by the Building and Fire Code Officials.
   SECTION 1010 DOORS, GATES AND TURNSTILES
   86.   1010.1.9.4 Locks and latches.
      Delete paragraphs 2, 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3.
   87.   1010.1.10 Panic and fire exit hardware.
      Delete exception #1.
   SECTION 1020 CORRIDORS
   88.   1020.1 Construction.
      Add the following language, "Door openings separating tenant spaces and
dwelling units from fire-resistance-rated corridors shall be protected by self-
closing fire resistance-rated doors that close from the full open position and
latch automatically.
      Door openings leading to enclosed stairways shall be protected by self-
closing fire resistance-rated doors or approved fire resistance-rated doors
with self-closing hold-open devices or automatic door closers."
   SECTION 1103 FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS
   89.   1103.7 Fire Alarm Systems
      Delete current language and replace with the following, "All existing
buildings, except single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, and related
accessory structures, shall have an approved automatic fire alarm system
installed in accordance with Section 907."
      Also delete exception.
   90.   1103.7.1 Group E
      Delete exceptions.
   91.   1103.7.2 Group I-1
      Delete exceptions.
   92.   1103.7.5.1 Group R-1 hotel and motel manual fire alarm system.
      Delete exceptions.
   93.   1103.7.5.1.1 Group R-1 hotel and motel automatic smoke detection
system.
      Delete exceptions.
   94.   1103.7.5.2 Group R-1 boarding and rooming houses manual fire alarm
system.
      Delete exceptions.
   95.   1103.7.5.2.1 Group R-1 boarding and rooming houses automatic smoke
detection system.
      Delete exceptions.
   96.   1103.7.6 Group R-2.
      Delete exceptions.
   97.   Add the following Section, 1103.7.8 Existing Fire Alarm Systems
      Add: "Occupancies with existing fire alarm systems shall transmit
trouble, supervisory, and fire signals directly to the Oak Lawn Regional
Emergency Communications Center remote supervising station via a wireless radio
transceiver installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 - National Fire
Alarm Code, 2019 Edition and International Building Code, Chapter 9 - Fire
Protection Systems, 2018 edition. All alarm contractors, alarm businesses and
alarm supervising stations shall be approved by the fire code official. The
fire alarm contractor supervising the automatic fire alarm system design and
installation shall be licensed by the State of Illinois Department of
Professional Regulations, per the Illinois Private Detective, Private Alarm,
Private Security and Locksmith Act of 1983."
   98.   1103.8.1 Where required.
      Add the following language, "Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms
shall also comply with the Smoke Detector Act, 425 ILCS 60, for required smoke
alarm installation and building owner and tenant responsibilities regarding
testing, inspection and maintenance of smoke alarms. State laws are enforced
through the Illinois Attorney General's Office."
      Add the following to the Exceptions, "As the minimum level of acceptable
protection, in all existing Group R and I-1 occupancies, an approved smoke
alarm shall be installed on the ceiling or wall outside of each separate
sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of bedrooms and on each story within a
dwelling unit, including basements but not including crawl spaces and
uninhabitable attics. In dwellings or dwelling units with split levels and
without an intervening door between the adjacent levels, a smoke alarm
installed on the upper level shall suffice for the adjacent lower level
provided that the lower level is less than one full story below the upper
level."
   99.   Add the following Section, 1103.8.3.1 Dead Batteries
      Smoke alarms shall be maintained in an operative condition at all times.
If during an inspection, the fire code official or a duly authorized
representative finds a solely battery-operated smoke alarm inoperable due to a
dead battery, the building owner shall immediately replace the solely battery
operated smoke alarm with a listed electrically operated smoke alarm. The smoke
alarm shall receive primary power from the building wiring where such wiring is
served from a commercial source and shall be equipped with a sealed 10 year
battery as a backup.
   100.   1103.9 Carbon monoxide alarms.
      Add the following language to the exceptions, "Carbon monoxide alarms
shall also comply with the, Carbon Monoxide Alarm Detector Act, 430 ILCS 135,
for required carbon monoxide alarm installation and building owner and tenant
responsibilities regarding testing, inspection and maintenance of smoke alarms.
State laws are enforced through the Illinois Attorney General's Office."
   101.   Add the following Section, 1103.9.1 Power source.
      Carbon Monoxide alarms may receive their primary power from the building
wiring provide that such wiring is served from a commercial source and shall be
equipped with battery backup, may plug into the building's AC power source and
shall be equipped with battery backup or may be solely battery operated.
   102.   Add the following Section, 1103.9.1.2 Dead Batteries
      Carbon monoxide alarms shall be maintained in an operative condition at
all times. If during an inspection, the fire code official or a duly authorized
representative finds a solely battery-operated carbon monoxide alarm inoperable
due to a dead battery, the building owner shall immediately replace the solely
battery operated carbon monoxide alarm with a listed electrically operated
carbon monoxide alarm. The carbon monoxide alarm shall receive primary power
from the building wiring where such wiring is served from a commercial source
and shall be equipped with a battery backup.
   SECTION 5601 GENERAL
   103.   Add the following Section, 5601.2.4.2.1 Certificate of liability
insurance.
      The permit holder shall furnish a certificate of liability insurance in
the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence. The policy shall
list the Village of Oak Lawn, its officials, employees, agents and volunteers
as additionally insured. Also include the event sponsor and its agents and any
real property by address within the fallout zone as additionally insured. This
shall be furnished at the time of application submittal.
   104.   Add the following Section, 5601.2.4.2.2 Permit and supervisory fees.
      The permit holder shall furnish a bond in the principal sum of one
thousand dollars ($1,000) in the form of a cashier's check for the purpose of
guaranteeing compliance with all applicable adopted codes and ordinances. The
permit holder shall pay a permit fee in the amount of one hundred fifty dollars
($150) and a supervisory fee in the amount of three hundred dollars ($300).
Business checks shall be made payable to the Village of Oak Lawn. The bond and
fees shall be furnished at the time of application submittal.
   SECTION 5608 FIREWORKS DISPLAY
   105.   5608.1 General.
      Add the following language after paragraph 1, "Shells shall only be fired
using electrical ignition or other means of remote ignition that places the
shooter and assistants at least seventy-five (75) feet away from the mortar or
behind a sturdy barricade at the time of ignition of the lift charge.
      Fireworks and pyrotechnic materials shall be loaded into mortars or in
place prior to the start of a display, and there shall be no reloading of any
fireworks and pyrotechnic materials during firing of the display."
   106.   5608.2 Permit application.
      Add the following language, "The application for permit for supervised
display of fireworks shall be made directly to the fire code official. Each
application for a permit shall be made at least thirty (30) days in advance of
the date of the display and action on such application shall be taken forty-
eight (48) hours after such application is received by the appropriate fire
code officials." Permit limitation - After a permit for a supervised display of
fireworks has been issued, the possession, sale, use and detonation of
fireworks for such display shall be limited for that purpose only. Permit
transfer - No permit granted hereunder shall be transferred to any other
person, organization or location.
   107.   5608.8 Fireworks display supervision.
      Add the following language, "Hazardous conditions include, but are not
limited to, inadequate spectator separation, unsecured or poorly secured
display site perimeter, spectators or vehicles within the display site, the
lack of crowd control, high winds, precipitation, drought or other adverse
weather conditions."
   108.   5608.9 Post-fireworks display inspection.
      Add the following language, "Each applicant shall supply the fire code
official with an Illinois Office of the State Fire Marshal Pyrotechnic Display
Report no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the display."
   109.   Add the following sections:
      5608.10.1 Recovery.
      Post-fireworks display inspection and the search for misfired or
undetonated fireworks shall begin as soon as it is safe immediately after the
display, or not later than sunrise. The area of a misfired or undetonated shell
shall be guarded by the display company at their cost from the time of
discovery until the recovery and removal of the shell.
      5608.10.2 Responsibility.
       The supplier of the fireworks shall be solely responsible for the
recovery and removal of all fireworks, and aerial displays that have not fired
and shall not transfer same to any unlicensed person or organization. Any
misfired or defective fireworks shall be noted on the Illinois Office of the
State Fire Marshal Pyrotechnic Display Report.
      5608.10.3 Cost.
      The cost of recovering the shells and removal of the shells shall be
solely the responsibility of the fireworks supplier and/or dealer.
   C.   Definitions:
      1.   Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the fire prevention
code, it shall be held to mean the village of Oak Lawn.
      2.   Wherever the words "chief of the bureau of fire prevention" are used
in the fire prevention code, they shall be held to mean the chief of the fire
department.
   D.   Interpretation: The fire chief or his subordinate within the fire
prevention bureau shall so interpret the fire regulations of the fire
prevention code, in harmony with the building code and regulations of the
village, and shall make no requirements inconsistent with or contrary to the
provisions of said building code or regulations.
   E.   Modification Of Provisions: The chief of the fire department shall have
power to modify any of the provisions of the fire prevention code upon
application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent,
when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict
letter of the code; provided, that the spirit of the code shall be observed,
public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of such
modification, when granted or allowed, and the decision of the chief of the
fire department thereon, shall be entered upon the records of the department
and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
   F.   Enforcement: The fire prevention code shall be enforced by the fire
chief of the village. Said chief or his subordinates shall have the authority
to call upon the police department for aid in the enforcement of any fire
prevention regulation.
   G.   Smoke Detectors And Carbon Monoxide Detectors: Smoke detectors and
carbon monoxide detectors shall be installed and shall be maintained at all
times in working order in all buildings in accordance with the requirements of
sections
6-2-7-7 and
6-2-7-14 of this code. (Ords. 09-18-37, 12-27-89, 14-04-10, 14-27-62, 15-13-47,
21-07-29)
 
Notes
1    425 ILCS 25.
7-3-2: LIFE SAFETY CODE:
(Rep. by Ord. 97-20-78)
7-3-3: INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS:
It shall be the duty of the fire chief to investigate or cause to be
investigated all complaints of violations of the fire prevention regulations of
the village. Where it is found that fire prevention regulations of the village
are being violated, or that any building, structure or premises is in such
condition as to be a probable cause of fire, panic or other accidents,
compliance may be attempted to be secured first by informal action. Where
compliance is not obtained by such informal action within a reasonable period
of time, a complaint for the violation of the fire prevention code shall be
initiated by the fire chief or such subordinate as he may designate. (Ord. 77-
15-20)
7-3-4: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a license or permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the code do not apply, or that the true intent and meaning of the
code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal
from the decision of the chief of the fire department to the village board
within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed. (Ord. 77-15-20)
7-3-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or the codes
hereby adopted or fail to comply herewith, or who shall violate or fail to
comply with any order made hereunder, or who shall build in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved hereunder,
or any certificate or permit issued hereunder, and from which no appeal has
been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such order as affirmed or modified
by the village board or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided
by section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced
removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 77-15-20)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL FIRE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Open Burning
7-4-2: Fireworks
7-4-3: Storage Of Flammable And Combustible Liquids
7-4-4: Approval Of Building Plans
7-4-5: New Materials, Processes And Occupancies
7-4-6: Failure To Repair Dangerous Buildings
7-4-7: Overcrowding
7-4-8: Violations And Penalties
7-4-9: Fees
7-4-1: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful to engage in the open burning or the
outdoor burning of rubbish or refuse such as, but not limited to, paint, oil,
automobiles, tires, plastics, construction materials or debris, leaves, small
branches, twigs, trees, paper, grass clippings or any other type of vegetable
matter within the corporate limits of the Village, except in an approved
incinerator approved by the Village.
   B.   Definitions:
   BONFIRE: An outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial purposes.
   FIRE PIT: A pit dug into the ground or made from stones, masonry, etc., that
rests on the ground, for keeping a fire used for recreation or cooking.
   OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any matter in the open or in an open dump.
   PUBLIC WAY: A public street, sidewalk, alley or bike trail.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE: A small outdoor fire whose purpose is for pleasure,
viewing, cooking, warmth or similar purposes using only seasoned dry firewood,
leaves, small branches, twigs, trees, or commercially available charcoal
briquettes.
   RUBBISH: Items such as paper, plastic, rubber, food products, metal, glass,
combustible liquids and construction materials or debris.
   STRUCTURE: Shall include but is not limited to a building, garage, house,
tent, residential or non- residential trailers or shed attached to the ground.
   C.   Exclusions: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this
section, the following types of outdoor or recreational burning shall be
permitted in an approved incinerator or fire pit:
      1.   Small controlled fires and burning of fuels for legitimate campfires
or recreational type use within the Village of Oak Lawn.
      2.   Cooking purposes, such as barbecues and grills, are permitted, where
such burning is consistent with applicable laws and codes and provided that no
garbage shall be burned in such cases.
      3.   Fires within approved enclosed domestic outdoor type fireplaces,
where such burning is consistent with applicable laws and codes and provided
that no garbage shall be burned in such cases. All outdoor type fireplaces
shall be approved for use by Underwriters' Laboratories (UL) or Factory Mutual
(FM).
      4.   Fires within approved enclosed domestic outdoor type fireplaces
shall be kept no less than fifteen feet (15') from all property lot lines and
all combustible materials.
      5.   Any recreational outdoor fire whose purpose is for pleasure,
cooking, warmth or similar purposes, provided the following:
         a.   No approved container shall be located within fifteen feet (15')
of any combustible material, structure or public way.
         b.   No approved fire pit shall be located within fifty feet (50') of
any combustible material, structure or public way, provided the following
exceptions:
            (1)   Fires within approved containers that are not less than
fifteen feet (15') from a structure.
            (2)   The minimum required distance from a structure shall be
twenty five feet (25') where the pile size is three feet (3') or less in
diameter and two feet (2') or less in height.
         c.   All recreational fires have a maximum time limit of four (4)
hours and shall be properly extinguished at the end of activities or time
limit. Regardless of when the fire was initiated it is not allowed to extend
later than eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and may begin no earlier than seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M.
      6.   Small open flames for heating tar, sand or other construction
material or for welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares and the like
shall be permitted.
      7.   The Fire Chief/Police Chief or their designee may prohibit any type
of burning that becomes a nuisance based on complaints of irritation of eyes or
breathing of others, when the atmospheric conditions or local conditions make
such fire hazardous and may order the extinguishment of any fire which creates
or adds to a hazardous or objectionable situation.
      8.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, any fire
considered by the authority having jurisdiction to be a nuisance or hazard
shall be extinguished immediately.
   D.   Safety: Open burning, bonfires, recreational fires and use of approved
portable outdoor fireplaces shall be constantly monitored until the fire is
extinguished. A minimum of one (1) portable fire extinguisher or other approved
on-site fire- extinguishing equipment, including but not limited to, dirt,
sand, water barrel, garden hose or water truck shall be available for immediate
utilization.
   E.   Prohibition: Open burning or fire pits shall be prohibited in a front
yard unless used in connection with approved block parties applications.
   F.   Penalties: Persons who are convicted of a violation of the provisions
of this Code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements or directives
of this Code, or of a permit or certificate under provisions of this Code,
shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day a violation occurs. (Ord. 17-13-40)
7-4-2: FIREWORKS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to possess,
offer for sale, expose for sale, sell or use, explode or discharge any
fireworks, or pyrotechnics in the Village, except at a fireworks/pyrotechnic
exhibition licensed by the Village. No cannon cracker, giant firecracker,
skyrocket, bomb, or any other fireworks that are unusually dangerous shall be
used at such exhibitions. Licensed exhibitions shall be given subject to the
supervision of the Fire Chief or of some person designated by him.
   B.   For purposes of this section, the term "fireworks" shall mean and
include any explosive composition, or any substance or combination of
substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion,
deflagration or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy cannons, in
which explosives are used, the type of balloons which require fire underneath
to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, bombs
or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks containing any
explosive compound, or any tablets or other device containing any explosive
substance, or containing combustible substances producing visual effects:
provided, however, that the term "fireworks" shall not include snake or
glowworm pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers known as "party poppers",
"booby traps", "snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette loads" and "auto burglar
alarms"; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or
plastic caps containing twenty five one-hundredths (0.25) grain or less of
explosive compound are used, providing they are so constructed that the hand
cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy
pistol paper or plastic caps which contain less than twenty one-hundredths
(0.20) grain of explosive mixture; the sale and use of which shall be permitted
at all times.
   C.   Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 89-15-37, 24-05-15)
7-4-3: STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following words and
terms shall be defined as indicated:
   BOCA: Building Officials and Code Administrators.
   COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID: A liquid having a flashpoint at or above one hundred
degrees Fahrenheit (100°F).
   DISPENSING: The activity of transferring a flammable or combustible liquid
from an aboveground storage tank to a vehicle, mobile equipment, engine or
motor for use as fuel by them; "dispensing" also includes such transference
into a receptacle.
   FACILITY: Any location or site within a single perimeter (including all
contiguous land and structures, and other appurtenances and improvements) where
there is storage of flammable or combustible liquids.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID: A liquid having a flashpoint below one hundred degrees
Fahrenheit (100°F) and having a vapor pressure not exceeding forty pounds per
square inch (40 ppsi) (absolute) at one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F).
   FLASHPOINT: The minimum temperature at which a liquid gives off vapor in
sufficient concentration to form an ignitible mixture with air near the surface
of a liquid within the vessel, as specified by test procedure and apparatus
approved by the Department of Quality Control or other appropriate regulating
government agency.
   LIQUID: Material which has a fluidity greater than that of three hundred
(300) penetration asphalt when tested in accordance with ASTM D-5-86 (test for
prevention for bituminous materials) (1986). When not otherwise identified, the
term "liquid" shall mean both flammable and combustible liquids.
   NFPA: National Fire Protection Association.
   REGULATING GOVERNMENT AGENCY: Any agency or entity of the State of Illinois
or the United States Federal government that exercises statutory or
administrative authority over the installation, removal, repair, alteration,
operation, maintenance or any other aspect pertaining to aboveground storage
tanks.
   B.   Storage: Storage of combustible or flammable liquids in aboveground
storage tanks shall be in accordance with the following:
      1.   The Gasoline Storage Act 1 , as amended;
      2.   The Illinois administrative code title 41: Fire Protection, as
amended;
      3.   The BOCA Building Code 1987;
      4.   The BOCA Fire Prevention Code 1987-1990;
      5.   The NFPA Standard No. 30 and 30A; and
      6.   Subsection C below (which shall supersede any of the requirements of
the BOCA Codes in conflict therewith).
   C.   Fuel Dispensing Systems: Aboveground storage tanks are permitted to be
used in relation to only industrial, institutional and governmental uses, to
store motor fuels on outside premises generally not accessible to the general
public when they are installed in a listed and approved tank enclosure assembly
which provides fire resistance protection of not less than two (2) hours from
exposure to a flammable liquid pool fire; provided, that specific approval is
obtained from the Department of Quality Control. In addition, the use of said
aboveground storage tanks shall comply with the following:
      1.   Barrier Protection: Physical barriers shall be provided for any
aboveground storage tank to protect the tank or any surface-mounted fuel
dispenser island against impact by a motor vehicle. Physical barriers around
any aboveground storage tank or surface-mounted island shall be a minimum of
thirty inches (30") (762 mm) in height and shall resist a force of twelve
thousand (12,000) pounds (53378 Newtons) applied thirty inches (30) (762 mm)
above the driving surface.
      2.   Access: Each aboveground storage tank and each special tank
enclosure shall be surrounded by a clear accessible space not less than three
feet (3') in width to allow for maintenance and inspection.
      3.   Capacity Limits: Aboveground storage tanks containing combustible
liquid shall not exceed two thousand five hundred (2,500) gallons per tank and
aboveground storage tanks containing flammable liquid shall not exceed one
thousand (1,000) gallons per tank. Two (2) aboveground storage tanks of any
combination is the maximum number allowed per facility.
      4.   Shutoffs: Aboveground storage tanks shall be provided with automatic
fuel shut-off devices capable of stopping the delivery of fuel into the
aboveground storage tank at ninety percent (90%) tank capacity.
      5.   Fuel Delivery: Motor fuels shall be transferred from tanks by means
of fixed pumps so designed and equipped as to allow control of the flow and to
prevent leakage or accidental discharge. Dispensing devices are permitted to be
installed on top of special tank enclosures. Gravity method of discharge is
prohibited.
      6.   Tank Openings and Connections: Aboveground storage tank and tank
enclosure openings for inspection and for piping and vent connections shall be
through the top only. Approved anti- siphon devices shall be installed at each
connection of piping to a tank when such tank piping extends below the level of
the top of such tank. Approved vent(s) shall be provided on each tank to
relieve such vacuum or pressure as will develop in normal operation.
      7.   Spillage: Any spill of flammable or combustible liquids in excess of
twenty five (25) gallons at any facility shall be reported to the Illinois
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency and the Department of Quality Control
within twenty four (24) hours of such spill.
      8.   Leak Detection: Provide automatic leak detection with locally
monitored alarm. Periodic visual inspections of the aboveground storage tank
and/or special tank enclosure shall be performed by the tank owner and/or tank
operator. Any leak found in any aboveground storage tank shall be immediately
repaired and reported to the authority having jurisdiction.
      9.   Location in Relation to the Flood Protection Elevation: Aboveground
storage tanks shall be located above the flood protection elevation.
      10.   Separation Distances: Each aboveground storage tank and each
special tank enclosure shall be separated from buildings by not less than five
feet (5'), and from lot lines and public rights of way by not less than thirty
feet (30'). At each facility, an aboveground storage tank and special tank
enclosure shall be separated from any adjacent aboveground storage tank and
special tank enclosure by not less than five feet (5'). A facility having the
maximum allowable aggregate capacity shall be separated from other such
aboveground storage tank facilities by not less than sixty feet (60').
      11.   Diking: Individual aboveground storage tanks or groups of said
tanks, where deemed necessary by the Department of Quality Control or the
appropriate regulating government agency on account of proximity to waterways,
character of topography, or nearness to structures of high value, or to places
of residence or public assembly, shall be diked or the facility shall be
provided with a curb to prevent the spread of liquid onto other property or
waterways. Where a diked enclosure is required, the volumetric capacity of the
diked area shall be not less than the aggregate capacity of the tanks within
the diked area. Approved double walled aboveground storage tanks may be used in
lieu of a dike containment system where approved by the Department of Quality
Control and a State or Federal level regulating government agency.
      12.   Labeling: Each aboveground storage tank shall contain the following
information:
         a.   The name and address of the manufacturer.
         b.   The model name and number;
         c.   Whether the contents is flammable or combustible;
         d.   A "no smoking" warning;
         e.   The volume; and
         f.   The contents;
in accordance with BOCA Article 19. Said information shall be set forth using
letters of no less than four inches (4") in size on a contrasting background.
   D.   Bulk Plants: Flammable liquid bulk plants are prohibited in all zoning
districts of the Village.
   E.   Permits: Permitting requirements for aboveground storage tanks shall be
as follows:
      1.   Permit Application: Application for a permit to install and operate
an aboveground storage tank shall be on a form provided by the Department of
Quality Control. The application shall designate the location of the existing
or proposed aboveground storage tank, the name and address of the applicant,
the name and address of the owner of the property on which the aboveground
storage tank is to be located, and a plat of survey/sketch indicating the
following:
         a.   The exact location of the existing or proposed aboveground
storage tank in relation to the lot lines, public rights of way and all
existing improvements, buildings and structures on the property where said tank
is to be located;
         b.   The type and dimensions of the existing or proposed aboveground
storage tank, including its capacity, height and diameter;
         c.   The exact location of all existing improvements, buildings and
structures on the property where the existing or proposed aboveground storage
tank is to be located, as well as on properties adjacent thereto;
         d.   The existing or proposed tank safeguards against collision,
spillage and overfills; and
         e.   The type of liquid that will be stored in said aboveground
storage tank.
      2.   Permit Issuance and Fees:
         a.   The Department of Quality Control shall issue a permit for the
installation and operation of an aboveground storage tank; provided, that the
permit application is complete, is in accordance with these regulations and the
applicable permit fee has been paid.
         b.   The fee to be paid for an aboveground storage tank installation
and operation permit shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   Permit Revocation: All permits for aboveground storage tanks issued
pursuant to this Section may be revoked at any time without the consent of the
permittee by order of the Director of the Department of Quality Control. A
permit may be revoked for failure of a permittee to comply with any of the
provisions of this Code or any of the statutory or administrative rules and
regulations of any other appropriate regulating government agency. A notice of
noncompliance, setting forth the Code provision(s) violated, shall be mailed by
the Director, or his/her designee, by certified mail, or hand delivered, to the
permittee and the permittee shall have five (5) business days from the date of
receipt of said notice to cure any such Code violation(s). If the permittee
fails to cure said Code violation(s) in the time period provided or if remedial
action by the permittee is insufficient to remove said Code violation(s) and
the Director revokes said permit, the permittee may appeal the revocation
decision to the Appeals and Review Board in accordance with the provisions set
forth in Section
2-2-2 of this Code. Upon such revocation, all rights granted under the permit
shall be revoked, and if no appeal is taken, the aboveground storage tank shall
no longer be used for storage or dispensing of any type of liquid.
   F.   Variations: Variations from the requirements of this Section may be
sought by making application therefor with the Zoning and Planning Commission
pursuant to Section
2-1-7-2 of this Code. (Ords. 93-25-116, 19-16-65, 19-16-66)
 
Notes
1 1. 430 ILCS 15/1 et seq.
7-4-4: APPROVAL OF BUILDING PLANS:
The Fire Chief or his designated subordinate shall examine the plans of all
proposed buildings exceeding three (3) stories in height or exceeding ten
thousand (10,000) square feet, or of hazardous use, and shall pass on all
questions relating to the safety of life and property from fire. No permit for
such buildings shall be issued until said plans have been reviewed by the Fire
Chief or his designated subordinate. Review shall take place no later than five
(5) working days after notification that plans are available. (Ord. 77-15-20)
7-4-5: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES AND OCCUPANCIES:
The Village President and Board of Trustees, and the Chief of the Fire
Department shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving
affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or
occupancies which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in
the Fire Prevention Code. The Chief of the Fire Department shall post such list
in a conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies thereof to
interested persons. (Ord. 77-15-20)
7-4-6: FAILURE TO REPAIR DANGEROUS BUILDINGS 1 :
Any owner or person in possession and control of any building who shall refuse
or neglect to make changes, alterations or repairs for a period of fifteen (15)
days after notice from the Fire Chief shall be subject to a fine of not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each and every day, after said fifteen (15) day notice period, that he
shall refuse or neglect to make such changes, alterations or repairs. (Ord. 77-
15-20; 1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
7-4-7: OVERCROWDING:
It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to allow no more persons to enter any
place of public assembly than the number of persons certified to by the
Director of Office of Quality Control, as per the permitted occupancy loads for
buildings as set forth in the BOCA Basic National Building Code/1984 1  and the
National Fire Protection Association Life Safety Code/1976 2 . The maximum
number of persons allowed in any place of public assembly, as per the
certification of the Director of the Office of Quality Control as set forth
above, shall appear on the license issued for said place of public assembly.
Any place of public assembly violating this provision shall be closed until the
violation is corrected. (Ords. 77-15-20, 81-12-19; 1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See Section
  6-1D-1 of this Code.
2 3. See subsection 7-3-2A of this Code.
7-4-8: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or the codes
hereby adopted or fail to comply herewith, or who shall violate or fail to
comply with any other made hereunder, or who shall build in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved hereunder,
or any certificate or permit issued hereunder, and from which no appeal has
been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such order as affirmed or modified
by the village board by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided
by section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced
removal of prohibited conditions. (Ords. 77-15-20, 91-19-81, 05-22-82)
7-4-9: FEES:
The following fees shall be imposed for permits, inspections, and reports:
Open Burning Permit (per event)                 $50.00
Fireworks Permit (per event)                    $150.00 per permit
                                                $300.00 for supervisory costs
Spray Booth Permit (annual)                     $50.00
Spray Booth Acceptance Test Witness             $100.00
Hydro Static Test Witness                       $100.00
Fire Alarm Acceptance Test (per each test)      $100.00
Restaurant Mechanical Hood & Duct Acceptance    $100.00
Fire Pump Acceptance Test Witness               $200.00
Fire Pump Annual Inspection Witness             $200.00
Generator Acceptance Test                       $150.00
Temporary use Permit Inspection                 $50.00
Amusement Events                                $150.00
Walk Through                                    $50.00
Sprinkler System Acceptance Test (per each      $100.00
test)
Underground Petroleum Storage (annual)          $150.00
LPG Tank Storage and Sales                      $50.00
Tar Kettle Permit (per event)                   $75.00
Above Ground Tank Install Inspection            $100.00
Underground Tank Install Inspection             $100.00
Underground Tank Removal Inspection             $100.00
Each Tank Re-inspection                         $100.00
Tank/Piping Pressure Test Witness               $100.00
Remote Dispensing Device                        $100.00
Municipal License-Exempt Occupancy Registration $75.00
Fire Protection ITM Report (non-electronic)     $25.00
Fire Protection ITM Report (past 30 days)       $25.00
Inspections                                     $100.00 plus administration fee
Each Subsequent Reinspection                    $100.00 plus administration fee
Fire Alarm Permit                               $200.00
Hourly Fire Watch (Fire Department Personnel)   $100.00
Hourly Fire Watch (Fire Department Apparatus)   $200.00
 
(Ord. 21-07-29)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE ALARMS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Installation, Operation And Maintenance Standards
7-5-3: Automatic Fire Alarm Required
7-5-4: Connection To The Village Of Oak Lawn Communications Center
7-5-5: Replacement Of Existing Automatic Fire Alarms
7-5-6: False Fire Alarm Service Charge
7-5-7: Liability Of Village Limited
7-5-8: Penalties
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AUTOMATIC FIRE ALARM SYSTEM: A fire alarm that, upon activation, automatically
dispatches an alert signal to a central station for response by the fire
department.
FALSE FIRE ALARM: An alarm signal which indicates the existence of an emergency
situation, when in fact no such emergency exists, and shall include any alarm
signal generated by any fire protection system by whatever means, but shall not
include alarms resulting from any of the following causes:
   A.   Fire causing structural damage to the protected premises verified by
the fire department.
   B.   Earthquake causing structural damage to the protected premises.
   C.   Hurricane winds causing structural damage to the protected premises.
   D.   Flooding to the protected premises due to overflow of natural drainage.
   E.   Lightning causing physical damage to the protected premises.
   F.   Telephone line malfunction verified in writing to the fire department
by an authorized telephone company supervisor within seven (7) days of the
occurrence.
   G.   Electrical service interruption verified in writing to the fire
department by the local power company manager within seven (7) days of the
occurrence.
   H.   Plumbing or electrical malfunctions unrelated to the fire protection
system.
FIRE ALARM: Any alarm signal or device that is designed for detecting or
alerting persons or the fire department that a fire has occurred.
FIRE ALARM USER: The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind in control of any building, structure or
facility or portion thereof wherein a fire protection system is maintained.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: The village of Oak Lawn fire department.
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM: Any fire alarm device or system, or fire extinguishing
device or system, or their combination, which is designed and installed for
detecting, controlling or extinguishing a fire or otherwise alerting persons or
the fire department, or both, that a fire has occurred. (Ord. 09-10-24)
7-5-2: INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
The installation, operation, maintenance and inspection of any fire protection
equipment shall be pursuant to the terms of chapter 3 of this title in relation
to fire prevention. (Ord. 09-10-24)
7-5-3: AUTOMATIC FIRE ALARM REQUIRED:
As of July 1, 2009, all new and existing buildings, except single-family
dwellings, two-family dwellings, and related accessory structures, shall be
required to have an approved automatic fire alarm system. All approved
automatic fire alarm systems shall be registered with the fire department.
(Ord. 09-10-24)
7-5-4: CONNECTION TO THE VILLAGE OF OAK LAWN COMMUNICATIONS CENTER:
All approved automatic fire alarm systems installed after July 1, 2009, shall
transmit trouble, supervisory, and fire signals directly to the village of Oak
Lawn communications center remote receiving station via a wireless radio
transmitter installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 and chapter 9
of the international building code, 2003 edition. Only equipment certified and
approved by the fire department and/or its designated fire alarm agent may be
installed. The designated fire alarm agent shall be the only authorized
installer of the wireless radio transmitter required by this section. (Ord. 09-
10-24)
7-5-5: REPLACEMENT OF EXISTING AUTOMATIC FIRE ALARMS:
All approved automatic fire alarms that were installed on or before June 30,
2009, shall be converted to wireless radio alarm transmitters that send a
signal directly to the village of Oak Lawn communications center remote
receiving station in accordance with the following schedule:
   A.   All existing automatic fire alarm systems directly tied to the village
of Oak Lawn communications center shall have a period of one year (i.e., until
June 30, 2010) to convert the system over to the village of Oak Lawn
communications center approved wireless radio transmitter.
   B.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, existing automatic
fire alarm systems not directly tied to the village of Oak Lawn communications
center shall change to the approved village of Oak Lawn communications center
wireless radio system within two (2) years (i.e., on or before June 30, 2011).
   C.   If the fire alarm user has a written contract in effect for an existing
automatic fire alarm system as of June 30, 2009, and if the term of the
contract extends beyond June 30, 2011, then the fire alarm user shall cause the
automatic fire alarm system to be converted to the approved village of Oak Lawn
communications center wireless radio system either: 1) at the time the contract
expires according to its own terms or 2) on or before June 30, 2014, whichever
is earlier. A copy of the contract shall be filed with the fire department by
the fire alarm user on or before July 1, 2009, as a condition precedent for
this subsection to apply. Failure of the fire alarm user to file a copy of the
written contract in a timely manner shall render this subsection inapplicable.
   D.   Where a disconnection of the telephone lines has occurred for a time
period of more than thirty (30) days, the fire alarm user shall cause the
automatic fire alarm system to be converted to the approved Village of Oak Lawn
communications center wireless radio system immediately. (Ord. 09-10-24)
7-5-6: FALSE FIRE ALARM SERVICE CHARGE:
A fire alarm user shall be charged a false fire alarm service charge of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each false alarm if such false alarm is:
   A.   Due to or caused by a lack of required maintenance as specified in
chapter 3 of this title in relation to fire prevention, or
   B.   Resulting from any test, repair, alteration or addition to the fire
protection system without prior notification thereof to the Fire Department.
For all other false fire alarms in excess of three (3) in any calendar year
from any fire protection system, a fire alarm user shall be charged a false
fire alarm service charge as follows, provided that charges will not exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00) per calendar day:
 
Fourth false alarm  $200.00
Fifth false alarm   250.00
Sixth false alarm   300.00
Seventh false alarm 500.00
 
(Ord. 18-24-85)
7-5-7: LIABILITY OF VILLAGE LIMITED:
The Village assumes no liability for:
   A.   Any defects in the operation of an alarm system.
   B.   Failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon receipt of an alarm.
   C.   Failure or neglect of any person in connection with the installation,
operation or maintenance of an alarm system.
   D.   The transmission of alarm signals, prerecorded alarm messages or the
relaying of such signals and messages. (Ord. 09-10-24)
7-5-8: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation. Such a fine
shall be in addition to any other fee or charge authorized pursuant to the
terms of this chapter. (Ord. 09-10-24)
CHAPTER 6
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY RESPONSE REIMBURSEMENT
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definitions
7-6-2: Duty To Reimburse
7-6-3: Fees
7-6-4: Penalty
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
EMERGENCY ACTION: Any action taken at or near the scene of a hazardous
materials emergency incident to prevent or minimize harm to human health, to
property, or to the environment from the unintentional release of a hazardous
material.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE AGENCY: A unit of local government or volunteer fire
protection organization that provides:
   A.   Firefighting services;
   B.   Emergency rescue services;
   C.   Emergency medical services;
   D.   Hazardous materials response teams;
   E.   Civil defense; or
   F.   Technical rescue teams.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: A substance or material in a quantity and form determined
by the United States department of transportation to be capable of posing an
unreasonable risk to health and safety or property when transported in
commerce.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: A person who:
   A.   Owns or has custody of hazardous material that is involved in an
incident requiring emergency action by an emergency response agency; or
   B.   Owns or has custody of bulk or nonbulk packaging or a transport vehicle
that contains hazardous material that is involved in an incident requiring
emergency action by an emergency response agency; and
   C.   Causes or substantially contributed to the cause of the incident. (Ord.
05-22-82)
7-6-2: DUTY TO REIMBURSE:
It shall be unlawful for any responsible party to fail to reimburse the
village, within sixty (60) days after the mailing of a bill for the hazardous
material emergency incident, the cost incurred by the village and all other
emergency response agencies responding to the hazardous material emergency
incident, and any private contractor responding to the incident at the request
of an emergency response agency. The amount of the hazardous material emergency
reimbursement fee shall be calculated in the manner provided in section
7-6-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 05-22-82)
7-6-3: FEES:
   A.   The fees to be paid by a responsible party to the village in
conjunction with the village's response to a hazardous materials emergency
incident shall be as provided for in section
7-1-18 of this title regardless of residency.
   B.   The responsible party shall also pay the actual emergency response
costs incurred by any other municipality or agency that renders aid to the fire
department in relation to a hazardous materials emergency incident. The fire
department shall cause fees received under this subsection to be paid to the
municipality or agency that renders aid. (Ords. 05-22-82, 17-06-14)
7-6-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined two hundred
dollars ($200.00), for each such offense, which fine shall be payable in
addition to the fee otherwise due and owing the village hereunder. (Ord. 05-22-
82)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
HEALTH REGULATIONS; NUISANCES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Health And Sanitation Officer
8-1-2: Nuisances Defined, Prohibited
8-1-3: Nuisances Enumerated
8-1-4: Additional Nuisance Regulations
8-1-5: Abatement Of Nuisances
8-1-6: Penalty
8-1-7: Graffiti Prohibited
8-1-1: HEALTH AND SANITATION OFFICER:
   A.   General Duties: It shall be the duty of the health and sanitation
officer to:
      1.   Enforce and observe all rules, regulations and orders of the
Illinois department of public health and all state laws pertaining to the
preservation of the health of the people within the village.
      2.   Execute and enforce all provisions of this code and the ordinances
of the village relating to nuisances, public health and sanitation.
      3.   Investigate the existence of any contagious or infectious disease
within the village and to report the same promptly to the village board and to
the department of health of the state of Illinois, and to act without delay in
carrying out such measures for arresting the progress of the same as either or
both of said bodies shall adopt.
      4.   To make all necessary sanitary and health investigations and
inspections within the village in order to ensure compliance with this title.
   B.   Compensation: The health and sanitation officer shall receive as
compensation for his services amounts to be fixed by the board of trustees from
time to time.
   C.   Police Assistance: The village police shall assist the health and
sanitation officer in the performance of his duties when called upon by said
officer, or by the village manager or the president or board of trustees or any
member thereof. (1951 Code 2-6,
2-6-1,
2-6-3; 1985 Code; Ord. 06-10-55)
8-1-2: NUISANCES DEFINED, PROHIBITED:
   A.   Defined: It shall constitute a nuisance to commit any offense which is
in fact a nuisance or which is a nuisance according to the common law, or which
is made such by this code, the statutes of the state or by any ordinance.
   B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a nuisance, or
to permit a nuisance to continue under his control, or to fail to abate any
nuisance after notification or recognition of its existence. (Ord. 79-34-68)
8-1-3: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
Nuisances shall include, but shall not be limited to, any one or more of the
following acts or omissions, which shall be deemed to be and are hereby
declared nuisances:
   A.   An act which shall unlawfully interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage, a public park, parkway, sidewalk,
street, alley, highway, or public right of way.
   B.   All diseased animals running at large.
   C.   To obstruct any gutter or watercourse so as to cause water to stagnate
therein, or to permit foul or stagnant water to stand upon any premises.
   D.   Carcasses of animals, or any part thereof not buried or destroyed
within twenty four (24) hours after death.
   E.   To cause, permit or suffer any garbage, trash, debris or offensive
substance of any kind to be collected, deposited or remain in any place in the
village other than as prescribed in the garbage, refuse and debris regulations
contained in chapter 5 of this title.
   F.   All buildings, walls and other structures which have been damaged by
fire, decay or otherwise to an extent exceeding one- half (1/2) their current
market value or which are so situated as to endanger the safety of the public 1
.
   G.   All dangerous or unsanitary, unguarded, unprotected machinery or
equipment in any public place, or situated or operated on private property.
   H.   All infestations of flies, fleas, roaches, lice, ticks, rats, mice, fly
maggots, mosquito larvae, rodents, insects, bedbugs, vermin and pest birds.
   I.   To pollute or render unwholesome or impure the public water supply.
   J.   To permit the growth upon any premises of any noxious plants 2 .
   K.   To construct or maintain any building or structure which is in an
unsanitary, unsafe or dangerous condition, or to maintain or permit any
building or part thereof to be or remain in an unsanitary condition by reason
of the basement or cellar being damp or wet or the floor of such basement or
cellar being covered with stagnant water, or by reason of the presence of sewer
gas, or which by reason of any other unsanitary, unsafe or dangerous condition
endangers the health or safety of any person.
   L.   To deposit any fecal material, dead animal or other filthy, offensive
substance upon any lot, street, alley or other place.
   M.   To cause or permit the emission of dense smoke from any fire, chimney,
engine, oil burner or any other agency in the village so as to cause annoyance
or discomfort to the residents thereof.
   N.   The use of "barbed wire" for fencing or screening of any type in a
residentially zoned district.
   O.   Barbecuing or cooking of any type on an outdoor balcony or indoor
bathtub.
   P.   To establish, maintain or carry on any offensive or unwholesome
business within the limits of the village.
   Q.   To spit or expectorate on any public sidewalk, street or other public
place or floor or walk or any public vehicle or hall or other public building.
   R.   Inoperable or abandoned motor vehicles, whether on public or private
property, not located within a garage, which shall be subject to the penalties
set forth in title 11, chapter 10 of this code.
   S.   To operate and/or maintain a motor transport engine, truck engine,
reefer and/or refrigeration unit, or to allow a motor transport engine, truck
engine, reefer and/or refrigeration unit to be operated on one's property,
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six thirty o'clock (6:30)
A.M. in any place within the village in which the majority of the buildings
within a radius of three hundred feet (300') are used exclusively for
residential purposes.
   T.   To sandblast and/or spray paint a motor vehicle at any location in a
residential district, other than a vehicle that is titled to a resident of said
location, and other than inside an enclosure which is equipped with a filtered
ventilation system and is in full compliance with the fire prevention code as
adopted by reference pursuant to section
7-3-1 of this code.
   U.   To dump or place any domestic garbage, landscape waste or brush or
garbage, trash or debris of any kind on any premises or property in the village
without the consent of the owner of such premises or property and then only in
accordance with established ordinances. Any person violating any provision of
this subsection shall be fined not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
nor more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. (1951 Code 2-6-21, 2-6-22, 16-1; Ords. 79-34-68,
84-13-33, 89-13-29, 91-9-33, 92-11-48, 06-10-55, 07-03-04, 07-11-38)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 9 of this code.
2 2. See chapter 6 of this title.
8-1-4: ADDITIONAL NUISANCE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Dust Prevention: Dust and other types of air pollution borne by the
wind from such sources as storage areas, yards, roads, and the like shall be
kept to a minimum by landscaping, paving, oiling, fencing, cutting of weeds or
other appropriate means.
   B.   Odors: It shall be unlawful to cause or to knowingly permit the
emission of objectionable or hazardous odors in such quantities as to be
readily detectable to an average observer at any point on the boundary line of
any premises or beyond.
   C.   Abandoned Iceboxes And Refrigerators: It shall be unlawful for any
person to leave or permit to remain outside of any dwelling, building or other
structure, or within any occupied or abandoned building, dwelling, or other
structure under his control, in a place accessible to children, any abandoned,
unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other container which has an
airtight door or lid, snap lock, or other locking device which has not been
removed from said icebox, refrigerator or container.
   D.   Building Foundation Or Excavation: It shall constitute a nuisance to
allow any building foundation or excavation to remain open and unenclosed for a
period in excess of ten (10) days.
   E.   Water Supply: It shall constitute a public nuisance if any building
used for residential purposes does not have a clean, potable and adequate
supply of running water.
   F.   Performance Standards: The following provisions of the Oak Lawn zoning
ordinance of 1985 are incorporated by reference to avoid duplication of entry:
Subject 1985 Code
        Section 
Subject                      1985 Code
                             Section 
Noise                        4-8-8-1 
Vibration                    4-8-8-2 
Smoke and particulate matter 4-8-8-3 
Toxic matter                 4-8-8-4 
Noxious and odorous matter   4-8-8-5 
Fire and explosive hazards   4-8-8-6 
Glare and heat               4-8-8-7 
 
(Ords. 79-34-68, 06-10-55)
8-1-5: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Notice: It shall be the duty of the health and sanitation officer to
serve notice, in writing, upon the owner, occupant, agent or person in
possession or control of any lot, building or premises in or upon which any
nuisance may be found or who may be the owner or cause of any such nuisance
requiring him to abate the same in such manner as the health and sanitation
officer shall prescribe, within a reasonable time. It shall not be necessary in
any case for the health and sanitation officer to specify in his notice the
manner in which any nuisance shall be abated, unless he shall deem it advisable
so to do. Such notice may be given or served by any officer who is so directed.
   B.   Failure To Comply With Notice: If the person referred to in the
preceding subsection notified accordingly shall refuse or neglect to comply
with such notice within the time and in the manner specified, the health and
sanitation officer shall cause the summary abatement of such nuisance at the
expense of the party responsible for, or permitting the same, and they shall be
subject to the penalties provided for violations of the provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   Procedure When Responsible Person Unknown: Whenever the owner,
occupant, agent or person in possession, charge or control of premises, in or
upon which any nuisance may be found is unknown and cannot be found, the health
and sanitation officer may initiate proceedings to abate the nuisance after
posting notice on the premises and sending notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known taxpayer as shown in the records of the
Cook County treasurer.
   D.   Collection Of Expenses: In either case provided by subsections B and C
of this section, the expense of such abatement, plus all costs and interest at
the rate of one percent (1%) per month or twelve percent (12%) annual interest
rate, shall be collected from the person who may have created, continued or
suffered such nuisance to exist. (Ord. 79-34-68; 1985 Code; Ord. 06-10-55)
8-1-6: PENALTY:
Unless a penalty is otherwise expressly provided within this chapter, any
person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 79-34-68;
1985 Code; Ords. 92-8-33, 99-5-11, 06-07-34, 06-10-55, 07-11-38)
8-1-7: GRAFFITI PROHIBITED:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: The placement or maintenance of graffiti anywhere
within public view in the Village poses a serious threat to the orderly and
proper maintenance of the Village and to the safety, health, and welfare of the
general public. Accordingly, the Village has determined that it is necessary to
deal strictly with any person who commits or intends to commit the offense of
placing graffiti within public view in the Village. The Village recognizes that
the perpetrator is the principal offender under this section, and thus intends
that every such perpetrator be punished accordingly. The Village also
recognizes, however, that graffiti must be eradicated and, therefore, that the
owner or person in control of any property or place on which graffiti has been
placed in public view, while also a victim, must be required to remove that
graffiti for his or her own good and for the protection of the safety, health,
and welfare of all residents of the Village. The purpose of this section is to
prevent the propagation of graffiti and to cause any graffiti that does appear
to be removed as quickly as possible, with the objective of protecting the
public safety, health, and welfare. Therefore, the Village hereby declares
graffiti in public view to be a nuisance and, as a nuisance, to be subject to
the provisions of this Code pertaining to nuisances.
   B.   Definition Of Graffiti: For the purpose of this section the word
"graffiti" shall be defined as: any sign, symbol, marking, drawing, name,
initial, word, diagram, sketch, numeral, emblem, picture or letter placed, or
any combination thereof, that is painted, written, drawn, scratched, etched, or
in any other way placed on any wall, fence, sign, building, or other structure,
or sidewalk, pavement, post, stone, tree, or any other real or personal
property or place, private or public, except as specifically permitted by State
law or regulation or Village Code, ordinance, or regulation or with the express
written permission of the owner, upon the real or personal property of said
owner.
   C.   Graffiti Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to place
graffiti upon the real or personal, public or private, property of another
without the express, written permission of the owner of said real or personal
property.
   D.   Permission To Place Graffiti Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the
owner and/or occupant of fixed real or personal property which is in the public
view to place or give permission to place any graffiti, as described in
subsection B of this section, on said real or personal property if such
graffiti incites violence by reference to gang or criminal activity, depicts or
expresses obscenity by referring to sexual activity, or contains defamatory
materials about a public or private person.
   E.   Possession Of Graffiti Materials Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any
person to possess while in any public building or in any public facility or
while on private property spray paint containers, paint, ink, marking pens
which contain a nonwater soluble fluid, brushes, applicator or other materials
for making, scratching or etching with the intent to use such material(s) to
violate subsections C and/or D of this section.
   F.   Abatement Of Nuisance: Upon notification by the Health and Sanitation
Officer, the owner of property upon which graffiti has been illegally placed
shall remove the graffiti within five (5) days of the date of notice. Upon
request made by the owner of the property upon which graffiti has been
illegally placed within two (2) days of the aforementioned notice, the Village
may remove all graffiti at no cost of the property owner subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   The Village shall only be responsible for the removal of the
graffiti, not the restoration of the surface on which it was removed. Care will
be taken to avoid unnecessary further damage to the property by the Village's
graffiti removal process.
      2.   The owner of the property shall be responsible for the restoration,
as necessary, of all surfaces damaged by the graffiti or graffiti removal
process.
      3.   The owner authorizing the removal by the Village shall sign a
release holding the Village harmless from any claims or suits brought for
damages pursuant to any adverse or injurious effects of such chemicals, or from
the actions taken by the Village, or its employees to remove the graffiti.
In addition to the penalty set forth in this section, if the owner does not
request the Village's removal efforts or otherwise fails to remove the graffiti
within the specified time shall cause abatement of this nuisance as prescribed
in section
8-1-5 of this chapter, and costs shall be assessed to the owner.
   G.   Minors: In the event a minor is convicted of a violation of subsection
C, D or E of this section, the provisions of section
10-4-3, "Parental Responsibility", of this Code shall apply to the parents of
the minor offender.
   H.   Penalties:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection H2 of this section, any person
violating any provision of this section shall be fined not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      2.   Any person convicted of a violation of subsection C, D or E of this
section, who is also found to have been a member of or a candidate for
membership in a gang at the time the offense is committed shall be subject to a
fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) in addition to other penalties listed in this section.
      3.   In addition to the aforesaid fines, the court or Administrative
Hearing Officer may order the offender or other responsible party to pay
restitution to the property owner for the costs of restoring the property to
its state prior to the application of graffiti. (Ord. 17-09-20)
CHAPTER 2
FOOD AND FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Definitions
8-2A-2: Food Establishment Regulations
8-2A-3: Reserved
8-2A-4: Order Of Closure, Suspension And Revocation Of License
8-2A-5: Unwholesome Or Adulterated Food
8-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to the provisions of this Chapter:
CERTIFIED FOOD PROTECTION MANAGER (BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT): The individual
responsible that has supervisory and management responsibility to direct,
control food preparation and service who has shown proficiency of required
information through passing a test that is part of an accredited program
defined in Section 2-102.20 of the FDA Food Code and has a current food
protection manager certification, as required by state and federal law.
COTTAGE FOOD OPERATION: An operation that produces or packages food in
compliance with Section 4 of the Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act.
FDA: The United States Food and Drug Administration.
FDA 2022 FOOD CODE: The 2022 Recommendations of the United States Public Health
Service FDA.
FOOD: Any substance intended for human consumption.
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT:
   Any operation that:
   1.   Stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends food directly to the
consumer, or otherwise provides food for human consumption, such as a
restaurant, satellite or catered feeding location, catering operation if the
operation provides food directly to a consumer or to a conveyance used to
transport people, market, vending location, conveyance used to transport
people, institution or food pantry; and
   2.   Relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly, or indirectly,
through a delivery service such as home delivery of grocery orders or
restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service that is provided by common
carriers.
   Food establishment includes:
      An element of the operation, such as a transportation vehicle or a
central preparation facility, that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location, unless the vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority; and
      An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary, temporary or
permanent facility or location. This inclusion applies regardless of whether
consumption is on or off the premises and whether there is a charge for the
food.
   Food establishment does not include:
      An establishment that offers only prepackaged foods that are not time/
temperature control for safety foods;
      A produce stand that only offers whole, uncut fresh fruits and
vegetables;
      A food processing plant, including those located on the premises of a
food establishment;
      A kitchen in a private home, such as a small family daycare provider or a
bed and breakfast operation, as defined in the Bed and Breakfast Act, that
prepares and offers food to guests;
      A private home that receives catered or home delivered food;
      A closed family function where food is prepared or served for individual
family consumption; or
      A cottage food operation.
FOOD HANDLER OR FOOD EMPLOYEE (BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT): Any person employed in
or operating a food establishment who works with unpackaged food, food
equipment or utensils, or food-contact surfaces. "Food employee" or "food
handler" does not include temporary food establishments or unpaid volunteers in
a food establishment, whether permanent or temporary. All food handlers must
adhere to prescribed sanitation and hygiene standards to minimize the risk of
foodborne illness and contamination. Food handlers and food employees shall
obtain and maintain a valid food handler training certificate, as required by
applicable state and local regulations.
FOOD SAFETY MANAGER (MUNICIPALITY): The individual who has obtained both food
safety certification and holds or operates under the authority of a Licensed
Environmental Health Practitioner ("LEHP"), as defined by the Environmental
Health Practitioner Act, 225 ILCS 37/1, et seq., and regulations promulgated
thereunder by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation
, allowing them to conduct official food establishment inspections, and has
been designated to enforce heath regulations pursuant to the ordinances of the
Village of Oak Lawn.
SANITARIAN (MUNICIPALITY): The person meeting the qualification of Licensed
Environmental Health Practitioner, as defined by the Environmental Health
Practitioner Act, 225 ILCS 37/1, et seq., and regulations promulgated
thereunder by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation,
and designated to enforce health regulations pursuant to the ordinances of the
Village of Oak Lawn.
(Ords. 17-04-07, 25-10-21)
8-2A-2: FOOD SANITATION REGULATIONS:
   The current and subsequent editions of the Illinois Food Code (77 Ill. Adm.
Code 750), as amended from time to time and promulgated by the Illinois
Department of Public Health, are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference.
The Illinois Food Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 750) incorporates substantial parts
of the FDA 2022 Food Code ("FDA Model Food Code"), which sets scientifically
sound guidelines for food safety in retail and food service establishments.
(Ords. 17-04-07, 25-10-21)
8-2A-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 17-04-07)
8-2A-4: ORDER OF CLOSURE, SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   Any business operating in violation of the Illinois Food Code may be ordered
closed by the Order of the Village Manager or his/her designee and may further
have their business license revoked or suspended and/or shall be subject to
further fines and other penalties in accordance with Title 3, Chapter 1,
Sections 3-1-1-10, 3-1-1-12, and/or 3-1-6 of the Village Code if the Sanitarian
deems that the conditions constitute an imminent hazard to public health.
(Ords. 17-04-07, 25-10-21)
8-2A-5: UNWHOLESOME OR ADULTERATED FOOD:
   A.   Unwholesome, adulterated or contaminated food is prohibited for sale or
storage in food establishments.
   B.   All unwholesome, adulterated or contaminated food may be condemned by
the Sanitarian and/or Food Safety Manager and shall thereupon be seized and/or
destroyed.
(Ords. 17-04-07, 25-10-21)
ARTICLE B. FOOD SERVICE AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
8-2B-1: Reserved
8-2B-2: License Posting Required
8-2B-3: Reserved
8-2B-4: Reinstatement Of License
8-2B-5: Reserved
8-2B-6: Inspections Required
8-2B-7: Duty To Permit Access
8-2B-8: Premises Requirements
8-2B-9: Disposal Of Waste
8-2B-10: Equipment Requirements
8-2B-1: RESERVED:
(Ord. 17-04-07)
8-2B-2: LICENSE POSTING REQUIRED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person who does not possess a valid, current
license from the village to operate a food establishment.
(Ords. 17-04-07, 25-10-21)
8-2B-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 17-04-07)
8-2B-4: REINSTATEMENT OF LICENSE:
   Any food establishment and/or operator thereof who has had their license
suspended may apply to have its/their license reinstated after reinspection by
the Sanitarian and violations are corrected or eliminated.
(Ords. 17-04-07, 25-10-21)
8-2B-5: RESERVED:
(Ord. 17-04-07)
8-2B-6: INSPECTIONS REQUIRED:
   A.   All food establishments are subject to inspections at all times at the
discretion of the Sanitarian and/or Food Safety Manager. To protect the
community and reduce the incidence of foodborne illnesses, the Village Manager,
or his/her designee, shall designate a qualified Sanitarian and/or Food Safety
Manager to conduct periodic routine inspections of food establishments in
accordance with this Title 8, including Section
8-2A-2, which adopts and incorporates by reference the Illinois Food Code (77
Ill. Adm. Code 750) (the "Food Code"), as amended from time to time.
   B.   The health and sanitation officer shall categorize Village food
establishments into the following three (3) categories in accordance with this
Title 8, including Section
8-2A-2 of the Village Code, and the Food Code:
      Category I: High Risk
      Category II: Medium Risk
      Category III: Low Risk
      1.   Category I: High Risk: "Category I Facility" means a food
establishment that presents a high relative risk of causing foodborne illness,
based on the large number of food handling operations typically implicated in
foodborne outbreaks and/or the type of population served by the facility.
Category I facilities include those where the following operations occur:
         Complex preparation including cooking, cooling, and reheating for hot
holding involving time/temperature control for safety foods;
         Processes requiring hot and cold holding of time/temperature control
for safety foods;
         Conducting specialized processes as described in 3-502 of the FDA 2022
Food Code; or
         Serving a highly susceptible population as defined in 1-201.10 of the
FDA Food Code.
      Examples include, but are not limited to, restaurants, hospitals, all
childcare/schools, grocery stores that prepare food on-site, food trucks or
mobile food establishments, and other establishments which are licensed/subject
to inspection by the State of Illinois.
      2.   Category II: Medium Risk: "Category II Facility" means a food
establishment that presents a medium relative risk of causing foodborne
illness, based upon few food handling operations typically implicated in
foodborne illness outbreaks. Category II facilities include those where the
following operations occur:
         Most products are prepared or cooked and served immediately.
         May involve hot and cold holding of time/temperature control for
safety foods after preparation or cooking; or
         As approved by the regulatory authority, preparation of time/
temperature control for safety foods requiring cooking, cooling, and reheating
for hot holding limited to 2 or fewer same items or processes with approved
procedures.
      Examples include, but are not limited to, grocery stores that do not
prepare food on-site, bakeries, and fast-food establishments serving food
prepared off-site.
      3.   Category III: Low Risk: "Category III Facility" means a food
establishment that presents a low relative risk of causing foodborne illness,
based upon few or no food handling operations typically implicated in foodborne
illness outbreaks. Category III facilities include those where the following
operations occur:
         Heating only commercially processed time/temperature control for
safety foods for immediate service with no hot holding or assembly;
         Only time/temperature control for safety foods commercially
prepackaged in an approved processing plant are available or served at the
facility;
         Only limited preparation of non-time/temperature control for safety
foods and beverages, such as snack foods and carbonated beverages, occurs at
the facility; or
         Only beverages (alcoholic and nonalcoholic) and garnishes that are
non-time/temperature control for safety are served at the facility.
      Examples include, but are not limited to, gas stations, C-Stores, and
limited service restaurants where the food is served (very limited, if any food
prepared on-site).
   C.   The frequency of periodic routine inspections for food establishments
shall be as follows:
      1.   Category I: High Risk--two (2) routine inspections per year.
      2.   Category II: Medium Risk--two (2) routine inspections per year.
      3.   Category III: Low Risk--one (1) routine inspection every other year.
   D.   Food establishments requiring inspections shall be subject to an annual
fee as set forth in Table 5 of section
3-1-1-7 of this Code.
   E.   One copy of the inspection report shall be given to the owner or
manager and shall be available on the premises. The Sanitarian and/or Food
Safety Manager will retain a copy of the report on file. An electronic format
of the inspection report is acceptable but be readily available for review.
   F.   Nothing in this Section shall be deemed to limit the Sanitarian's and/
or Food Safety Manager's discretion to conduct additional inspections as they
deem necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ords. 17-04-07, 21-01-05, 25-10-21, 25-12-37)
8-2B-7: DUTY TO PERMIT ACCESS:
   The Sanitarian and/or Food Safety Manager shall be given specific power to
make inspections and for that purpose may enter buildings, structures and
premises to enforce the environmental health laws of the village and to that
end shall make such orders, requirements, decisions and determinations as are
necessary to the enforcement of applicable environmental health laws.
(Ords. 17-04-07, 25-10-21)
8-2B-8: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Toilet and lavatory facilities notwithstanding any other provision of
this code, the following requirements shall be enforced:
      1.   Every food service facility shall provide at least one adequate
unisex toilet facility, which is both conveniently located and handicap
accessible, for its employees, conforming with this code and village
ordinances.
      2.   Every restaurant with any seating for thirty (30) or fewer patrons
shall be provided with at least one adequate unisex toilet facility, which is
both conveniently located and handicap accessible, for use by its patrons
conforming with this code and the ordinances of the village. Said toilet
facility may serve as the toilet for both employees and patrons but must not
require access through food preparation, storage or ware washing areas.
      3.   Every restaurant with any seating for more than thirty (30) patrons
shall be provided with separate toilet facilities for each sex, which is both
conveniently located and handicap accessible, for use by its patrons conforming
to this code and the ordinances of the village. Said toilet facility may serve
as the toilet for both employees and patrons but must not require access
through food preparation, storage or ware washing areas.
      4.   Toilet facilities shall not open directly into any room in which
food, or drink is prepared or stored or utensils are handled or stored.
      5.   Doors of the toilet facilities shall be self-closing and have proper
hardware.
      6.   Toilet facilities shall be kept in a clean condition, in good
repair, well lit and ventilated.
      7.   Adequate and convenient hand washing facilities shall be provided,
including hot and cold potable running water under pressure, pump style soap
and approved towels or drying devices. The common use of towels or bar soap is
prohibited. No employee shall resume work after using the toilet facility
without first washing their hands.
      8.   Toilet rooms shall be equipped with a clean and covered refuse
container.
   B.   All food service facilities shall have monthly pest control conducted
by a licensed rodent and pest control company. Activity result reports and / or
receipts shall be made available to the village upon request of a village
inspector.
   C.   Grease interceptors shall be cleaned quarterly by a licensed grease
hauler and the manifest kept on premises. Disposal of grease in the Village's
System shall result in a fine up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) to be
imposed by the Village Adjudicator after hearing in accordance with
Title 11, Chapter 12, of the Village Code, and will be reported to the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District, who may levy additional fines.
(Ords. 17-04-07, 21-20-91, 25-10-21)
8-2B-9: DISPOSAL OF WASTE:
   All garbage must be properly disposed of at least every seventy two (72)
hours or more frequently if determined by the Sanitarian and/or Food Safety
Manager. Garbage and waste must be bagged and kept in a lidded dumpster with
the adjacent area being cleaned daily. Grease and renderings must be removed by
a licensed hauler and kept in a closed, metal cabinet with the adjacent area
being cleaned daily. Newly constructed food service facilities shall comply
with required refuse enclosure large enough to corral garbage, grease and
recycling containers. Payment receipts from licensed haulers must be kept on
site and made available to the Sanitarian and/or Food Safety Manager during
inspections.
(Ords. 17-04-07, 25-10-21)
8-2B-10: EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   Food service equipment needs to be of commercial grade and meet standards
regarding safe design, nontoxic materials, intended use and workmanship
established by one of the recognized accredited agencies for food service
equipment.
(Ord. 17-04-07)
ARTICLE C. FOOD DELIVERY VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-2C-1: Inspections Required
8-2C-2: Requirements
8-2C-1: INSPECTIONS REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of the Village Manager, or their designee, to designate a
qualified Sanitarian and/or Food Safety Manager to make such inspections of
food delivery vehicles as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this Title, including, without limitation, Section
8-2B-6.
(Ords. 17-04-07, 21-01-05, 25-10-21)
8-2C-2: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Deliveries of food that have been specifically ordered by a customer
and delivered to a set destination.
   B.   Deliveries must be made from a licensed food establishment.
   C.   Vehicles must be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and be
thoroughly cleaned daily.
   D.   Product shall be protected from inappropriate temperatures and kept
wrapped to prevent contamination.
(Ords. 17-04-07, 25-10-21)
ARTICLE D. MOBILE ICE CREAM AND FROZEN DESSERT DISPENSERS
SECTION:
8-2D-1: License Required; Inspections
8-2D-2: Vehicle Requirements
8-2D-3: Service Of Ice Cream And Frozen Desserts
8-2D-4: Refrigeration Equipment
8-2D-5: Operational Requirements
8-2D-6: Insurance Required
8-2D-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; INSPECTIONS:
   Ice cream and frozen desserts may be dispensed from a vehicle if the
dispenser is licensed to perform such sales within the boundaries of the
village. The licenses shall be effective from June 1 through May 31 of each
year. All vehicles shall be present for the annual inspection to be conducted
on a date to be determined by staff. Vehicles qualifying for inspections shall
have all required documents; including a completed village of Oak Lawn business
license application, a valid state of Illinois driver's license, and a
certificate of insurance plus payment of the annual business license fee set
forth in section
3-1-1-7 of this code.
(Ords. 93-11-38, 06-10-55, 25-10-21, 25-12-37)
8-2D-2: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   All vehicles used as mobile ice cream and frozen dessert dispensers
(commonly called ice cream trucks) shall meet the following requirements to be
determined by a health inspection by the village before a license shall be
issued:
   A.   The vehicle shall be enclosed with top and sides.
   B.   The interior floor, walls and ceiling of each vehicle shall be of
smooth, not readily corrodible, impervious material capable of withstanding
repeated washing and scrubbing and shall be finished in a light color. Each
vehicle shall be well painted, in good repair, in good sanitary condition and
shall not be used for any other purpose except as provided in this section.
   C.   The service sections of the vehicle shall be insect and rodent proof.
   D.   The name, address and mobile dispenser license number shall appear on
both sides of the vehicle in letters at least three inches (3") in height, in
contrasting color.
   E.   All service equipment utilized in the mobile dispenser shall be of
easily cleanable construction and shall be maintained in good repair and shall
be clean.
   F.   Prices for all products sold must be clearly posted on the truck or
posted menu.
(Ords. 93-11-38, 06-10-55, 25-10-21)
8-2D-3: SERVICE OF ICE CREAM AND FROZEN DESSERTS:
Ice cream, ice milk, frozen yogurt, sundaes and other frozen desserts
manufactured or processed on or served from the mobile vehicle shall be
prepared from wholesome ingredients and must be unadulterated and prepared
according to applicable state and federal law and shall be dispensed only from
clean, suitable dispensers all of which must meet the health inspection
conducted by the village. Customers shall be served in single service
containers and single service food utensils shall be individually wrapped to be
used only once. (Ords. 93-11-38, 06-10-55)
8-2D-4: REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT:
Adequate refrigeration equipment shall be provided and shall be maintained in
good working condition. (Ords. 93-11-38, 06-10-55)
8-2D-5: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Mobile dispenser vehicles shall move from place to place upon the
public ways and shall stop only to service customers.
   B.   No mobile dispenser vehicle shall be equipped with any electronic sound
amplifying device. Permitted advertising devices are limited to bells. Such
devices shall not be sounded within two hundred feet (200') of a hospital.
   C.   Sales shall be made from such vehicles only during daylight hours and
not before eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.
   D.   No sale shall be made from such a vehicle except from the curbside
thereof and only when such vehicle is legally parked.
   E.   All such vehicles must meet the equipment standards set by the Illinois
department of transportation, be submitted to a state safety inspection and
obtain a certificate of safety. In addition, all operators of such vehicles
must have valid Illinois driver's licenses. (Ords. 93-11-38, 06-10-55)
8-2D-6: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Owners of mobile dispenser vehicles must provide the village with a certificate
of insurance showing comprehensive general liability coverage for property
damage and physical injury in the aggregate amount of five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) as well as evidence of automobile insurance required by
the state for operation of the vehicle. The certificate of insurance must state
that the insurer shall notify the village thirty (30) days before cancelling or
revising the policy. (Ords. 93-11-38, 06-10-55)
CHAPTER 3
AMBULATORY SURGICAL TREATMENT CENTERS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Public Policy
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: License Required
8-3-4: Application for License, Fee
8-3-5: Issuance Of License; Renewal, Fee
8-3-6: Notice Of Changes
8-3-7: Ownership And Management Of Licensed Facility
8-3-8: Licensed Facility Personnel
8-3-9: Equipment, Supplies And Facility Maintenance
8-3-10: Pre-Operative Care
8-3-11: Post-Operative Care
8-3-12: Records And Reports
8-3-13: Additional Requirements, Obstetrical/Gynecological Procedures
8-3-14: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Notice And Hearing
8-3-15: Inspections
8-3-16: Complaints
8-3-17: Penalty
8-3-18: Severability
8-3-1: PUBLIC POLICY:
It is declared to be the public policy that the village has a real and
legitimate interest in assuring that all medical and surgical procedures,
including abortions, are performed under circumstances that insure high
standards of care and the maximum safety of the patient. The purpose of this
chapter is to clearly set forth the licensing standards for ambulatory
treatment centers and to promote adequate standards for health care centers
performing ambulatory surgical treatment. (Ord. 79-24-42)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them:
AMBULATORY SURGICAL TREATMENT CENTER: Shall have the same meaning as ascribed
in the ambulatory surgical treatment center act 1 .
CERTIFIED REGISTERED NURSE ANESTHETIST: A registered professional nurse who has
been certified as a nurse- anesthetist by the American Association of Nurse
Anesthetists.
FIRST TRIMESTER: The first twelve (12) weeks of gestation commencing with
ovulation rather than computed on the basis of the menstrual cycle.
LICENSED PRACTICAL NURSE: A person licensed under the Illinois nursing act 2
and who practices professional nursing.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
or joint stock association, or the legal successor thereof.
QUALIFIED ANESTHESIOLOGIST: A physician who is licensed to practice medicine in
all its branches in the state of Illinois and who is a diplomate of the
American Board of Anesthesiology, or American College of Anesthesiology; or,
who is a diplomate of the American Osteopathic Board of Anesthesiology, or who
is board eligible or possesses training and experience equivalent to such
eligibility; or who possesses training and experience acceptable to the
department and whose primary practice is anesthesiology.
QUALIFIED CONSULTING COMMITTEE: A committee whose members are qualified
surgeons, obstetricians, gynecologists, anesthesiologists or pathologists, or
other consulting physicians consisting of not less than three (3) members who
shall establish the required standards commensurate with the size, scope,
extent and complexity of service programs and procedures for which the facility
is licensed. The consulting committee shall act as the credentials committee.
QUALIFIED CONSULTING SURGEON, OBSTETRICIAN, GYNECOLOGIST, ANESTHESIOLOGIST,
PATHOLOGIST, OR OTHER CONSULTING PHYSICIAN: A physician who is licensed in the
state of Illinois and who is a diplomate of an appropriate specialty board, or
who has completed the training and experience required for specialty board
certification.
QUALIFIED PHYSICIAN: An individual who is licensed to practice medicine in all
branches in the state of Illinois.
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL NURSE: A registered nurse or a registered professional
nurse who is registered under the Illinois nursing act and practices
professional nursing.
STUDENT NURSE: A person enrolled in a course of instruction at an approved
school of professional or practical nursing and who is supervised by a nursing
instructor of the school.
VILLAGE MEDICAL DIRECTOR: The individual who is hired by the village to
administer the provisions of this chapter. (Ords. 79-24-42, 87-5-18)
 
Notes
1 1. 210 ILCS 5/3.
   
2 1. 225 ILCS 65/1.
8-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on, or to
permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises in
the village, the operation of an "ambulatory surgical treatment center" as
herein defined, without first having obtained a license from the village
manager, after approval of the village medical director. (Ords. 79-24-42, 87-5-
18)
8-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, FEE:
An application for license shall be made to the village medical director on
forms provided by him. The application shall be submitted not less than sixty
(60) days prior to the date of intended operation of any such center and shall
be signed by the applicant, be verified, and accompanied by a license fee as
set forth in section
3-1-1-7 of this code.
The application shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
   A.   A statement of ownership, which the applicant agrees to update every
six (6) months from the initial date of filing. The statement of ownership
shall include the following:
      1.   The name, telephone number and occupation of every person who has
entered into a contract to manage or operate or who owns or controls, directly
or indirectly, any of the shares of stock of, or any other financial interest
in, the facility which is the subject of the application or license, and the
percentage of such interest; and
      2.   The address of any facility, wherever located, any financial
interest in which is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the
applicant, if the facility is required to be licensed if it were located in
this state.
   B.   Location of the facility.
   C.   Description of the facility including, but not limited to,
interviewing, consultation, examination, surgical and recovery room facilities.
   D.   Schematic architectural plans.
   E.   Documentation of compliance with all applicable building, utility and
safety codes of the village.
   F.   Description of services to be provided by the facility including a list
of surgical procedures to be performed.
   G.   List of all personnel including their names, addresses, positions,
qualifications and licensure.
Only those facilities, services, programs and procedures included in the
application shall be licensed. A new application is required for the following:
   A.   Change in ownership; or
   B.   Change in location. (Ords. 79-24-42, 87-5-18, 03-20-81)
8-3-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; RENEWAL, FEE:
   A.   Each license shall be issued only for the premises and persons named in
the application, and shall not be transferable or assignable. The license shall
be posted in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
   B.   The license shall be valid for one year. A license, unless sooner
suspended or revoked, shall be renewable annually, upon approval of the village
medical director and payment of a license fee as set forth in section
3-1-1-7 of this code. The renewal application shall be on forms provided by the
village medical director and shall be submitted to him not less than thirty
(30) days prior to the expiration date of the current license.
   C.   If during the term of the license, a fifty percent (50%) change in
ownership of the center shall occur, a new application shall be required to be
filed with the village medical director, along with payment of a reissuance fee
as set forth in section
3-1-1-7 of this code.
   D.   The village medical director shall only approve the issuance of a
license if he finds that the applicant facility complies with this chapter and
state law, and:
      1.   Is under the medical supervision of one or more physicians;
      2.   Permits a surgical procedure to be performed only by a physician,
who at the time is privileged to have his patients admitted by himself, or an
associated physician and is himself privileged to perform surgical procedures
in at least one Illinois hospital;
      3.   Maintains adequate medical records for each patient; and
      4.   Maintains at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) liability
insurance coverage, proof of which shall be furnished to the village medical
director. (Ords. 79-24-42, 87-5-18, 03-20-81)
8-3-6: NOTICE OF CHANGES:
The licensed facility shall give written notice to the village medical director
within seven (7) days of any of the following:
   A.   Change of administrative staff;
   B.   Change of medical supervisor of the facility;
   C.   Change of staff physicians;
   D.   Change of supervising nurse;
   E.   Addition or deletion of surgical procedures performed;
   F.   In the case of a corporation, change in any shareholder's equity
involving five percent (5%) or more interest. (Ords. 79-24-42, 87-5-18)
8-3-7: OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF LICENSED FACILITY:
   A.   An organization plan shall be known to the staff and available for
public information in the licensed facility. The document shall clearly set
forth the organization, duties, responsibility, accountability and
relationships of professional staff and other personnel. All owners,
administrators, professional staff and ancillary personnel shall act in
accordance with this document. This document shall be submitted to the Village
Medical Director with the initial application and thereafter will be reviewed
at regular inspections by the Village Medical Director.
   B.   Management and/or the owner of the ambulatory surgical treatment center
shall maintain proper standards of professional work in the licensed facility.
   C.   A qualified consulting committee shall be appointed in writing by the
management and/or owner of the ambulatory surgical treatment center and shall
establish and enforce standards for professional work in the facility and
standards of competency for physicians. The consulting committee shall meet not
less than quarterly and shall document all meetings with written minutes. These
written minutes shall be maintained at the facility and shall be available for
inspection by the Village Medical Director.
   D.   The membership of the consulting committee shall reflect the types of
procedures performed. If the facility performs more than fifty (50) procedures
per month, or more than ten percent (10%) of the total procedures performed are
in a specific specialty area, then there shall be a consulting physician of
that specialty on the consulting committee.
   E.   The consulting committee shall review development and content of the
written policies and procedures of the center, the procedures for granting
privileges, and the quality of the surgical procedures performed. Evidence of
such review shall be recorded in the minutes.
   F.   Credentials shall be provided by those physicians seeking practice
privileges. These credentials shall be reviewed by the credentials committee
and specific practice privileges identified and recorded. Record of such
accepted practice privileges shall be available for facility staff use and
public information within the facility.
   G.   A physician granted specific practice privileges shall provide evidence
that he/she has equivalent practice privileges in at least one licensed
Illinois hospital. Documentation of said evidence shall be available for
inspection by the Village Medical Director. A list of such privileges granted
each physician on the staff of the ambulatory surgical treatment center shall
be posted at all times for the staff of the center.
   H.   Physicians operating in the facility shall document that they are
active staff members of a licensed hospital with verified credentials including
admitting, not more than fifteen (15) minutes' travel time or five (5) miles,
whichever is less, from the facility wherein the surgical procedures will be
performed.
   I.   The consulting committee shall act as a tissue committee and shall
review at least quarterly all pathological reports from procedures performed by
each physician on the staff. Evidence of such review shall be recorded in the
minutes.
   J.   The management/owner of the ambulatory surgical treatment center shall
formulate a written policies and procedures manual. This shall be done in
cooperation with the medical and professional staff and shall be approved by
the consulting committee. These procedures shall provide for the acceptance,
care, treatment, anesthesia services, discharge, referral, and follow-up of all
patients and all incidental operations of the facility. This manual shall be
available to all staff in the center and shall be followed by them at all times
in the performance of their duties. (Ords. 79-24-42, 87-5-18)
8-3-8: LICENSED FACILITY PERSONNEL:
   A.   Each ambulatory surgical treatment center shall have written personnel
policies including job descriptions for each staff position, which shall
include minimum qualifications required for the position. These shall be a
documented procedure for orientation of new employees to the facility's
policies and procedures, as well as the personnel policies including a copy of
the appropriate job description.
   B.   A qualified physician shall be present at the facility at all times
during the operative and post-operative period for all patients.
   C.   At least one registered professional nurse with post-graduate education
or experience in surgical nursing shall direct and supervise the nursing
personnel and the nursing care of patients and shall be on duty at all times on
the premises when patients are present.
   D.   Nursing care may be provided by student nurses and licensed practical
nurses who have been trained in observation and emergency techniques for pre-
operative and post-operative care of surgical patients and who are under the
direct personal supervision of a registered nurse at all times.
   E.   At least one person who is certified in "basic life support", by the
American Heart Association shall be on the premises while patients are present.
   F.   Each ambulatory surgical treatment center shall have one of the
following:
      1.   A qualified medical technician who is certified by the American
Society of Clinical Pathologists or is the holder of a letter, certificate, or
record from the Bureau of Quality Assurance of the Department of Health,
Education and Welfare and he/she has passed the Federal Proficiency Examination
Program for Clinical Laboratory Technologists, to perform required laboratory
procedures.
      2.   A written agreement with a laboratory, licensed by the Department of
Public Health of the State of Illinois to perform required laboratory
procedures. (Ord. 78-24-42)
8-3-9: EQUIPMENT, SUPPLIES AND FACILITY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Equipment shall be in good working order and shall be available in
numbers sufficient to provide good patient care based on the procedures to be
performed in the facility.
   B.   There shall be monitoring equipment, suction apparatus, oxygen and
related items available within the surgical and post-operative recovery area.
Cardiac pulmonary resuscitation equipment shall be available in all facilities.
   C.   There shall be written procedures governing the care, use,
sterilization, storage and disposal of materials to insure that an adequate
supply of sterile equipment is available for each procedure. The section on
"Sterilization and Disinfection" from the most recent edition of Infection
Control in the Hospital, American Hospital Association, shall be used as the
standard.
   D.   There shall be written procedures to assure safety in storage and use
of inhalation anesthetics and medical gases. The current edition of the
National Fire Protection and Association Code (Standard No. 56a) shall be used
as the standard.
   E.   There shall be written procedures to assure the safety in storage and
use of all narcotics and medications in accordance with State and Federal law.
   F.   The ambulatory surgical treatment center shall insure maintenance of a
sanitary facility with all equipment in good working order. Written procedures
shall include provisions for garbage and refuse removal, insect and rodent
control, maintenance of water, heat, ventilation and air conditioning, and
electrical service.
   G.   It shall be demonstrated to the Village Medical Director and to the
Village Fire Department that a nonambulatory patient can be removed from the
building in which the center is located, as follows:
      1.   By demonstrating that the building has an elevator sufficiently wide
to accommodate a full-length stretcher in a prone position; or
      2.   By demonstrating that a stretcher owned by the licensee has an
adjustable head section which can be adjusted so that the stretcher can be
accommodated in the building elevator; or
      3.   By demonstrating that a stretcher can be transported down the
stairway in a position so as not to jeopardize the patient's health, in a
reasonable period of time. (Ords. 79-24-42, 79-25-47, 87-5-18)
8-3-10: PRE-OPERATIVE CARE:
   A.   Where medical evaluation, examination, and referral are made from a
private physician's office, hospital or clinic, pertinent records thereof shall
be available and made a part of the patient's clinical record at the time the
patient is registered and admitted to the ambulatory surgical treatment center.
   B.   A complete medical history shall be obtained and the physical
examination shall be complete. A hematocrit and complete urinalysis shall be
performed by a qualified laboratory technician prior to the following
procedures:
      1.   Those performed with general anesthesia;
      2.   Those performed with local anesthesia;
      3.   Those performed to terminate pregnancy;
      4.   A written statement indicating informed consent and a signed
authorization by the patient for the performance of the specific surgical
procedure shall be procured and made part of the patient's clinical record.
(Ords. 79-24-42, 79-25-47)
8-3-11: POST-OPERATIVE CARE:
   A.   To insure availability of follow-up care at a licensed hospital, the
ambulatory surgical treatment center shall provide written documentation of the
following:
      1.   A transfer agreement with a licensed ambulance service for the
transportation of patients to a licensed hospital within fifteen (15) minutes'
travel time, or five (5) miles, whichever is less, of the facility;
      2.   A statement that each physician operating in the facility has full
admitting privileges in, and is an active staff member of, a licensed hospital
within fifteen (15) minutes' travel time, or five (5) miles, whichever is less,
of the facility, and that he will assume responsibility for his facility
patients requiring such follow-up care.
   B.   Written instructions signed by the attending physician shall be issued
to all patients in accordance with the standards approved by the consulting
committee of the ambulatory surgical treatment center, and shall include the
following:
      1.   Symptoms of complications associated with procedures performed.
      2.   Limitations and/or restrictions of activities of the patient.
      3.   Specific telephone number of a qualified professional associated
with the facility, to be used by the patient, at any time, should any
complication or question arise.
      4.   A date for follow-up or return visits after the performance of the
procedure, which shall be scheduled within six (6) weeks.
      5.   Telephone number of Village Medical Director.
   C.   Patients shall be discharged only on the written signed order of a
physician. (Ords. 79-24-42, 79-25-47)
8-3-12: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
Accurate and complete clinical records shall be maintained for each patient,
and all entries in the clinical record shall be made at the time the surgical
procedure is performed and when care, treatment, medications, or other medical
services are given. The record shall include, but not be limited to the
following:
   A.   Patient identification;
   B.   Admitting information including patient history, physical examination
findings, diagnosis or need for medical services;
   C.   Pre-operative counseling notes;
   D.   Signed informed consent;
   E.   Laboratory tests' reports, pathologist's report of tissue, and
radiologist's report of X-rays;
   F.   Anesthesia record;
   G.   Operative record;
   H.   Medication and medical treatments;
   I.   Recovery room and progress notes;
   J.   Physician and nurses' progress notes;
   K.   Condition at time of discharge;
   L.   Written patient instructions. (Ords. 79-24-42, 79-25-47)
8-3-13: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS, OBSTETRICAL/GYNECOLOGICAL PROCEDURES:
Abortions shall be provided to the public with the same standards of safety,
effectiveness and regard for patients' rights as any other health service.
   A.   Personnel: At least one registered professional nurse with post-
graduate education or experience in obstetrical or gynecological nursing shall
supervise and direct the nursing personnel and care of patients having
obstetrical procedures.
   B.   General Patient Care:
      1.   Examination:
         a.   Prior to obstetrical procedures, blood typing and Rh factor,
coagulation profile, hematocrit, and urinalysis, shall be performed by a
qualified laboratory technician for every patient.
         b.   The physician performing an abortion procedure shall establish
the diagnosis of pregnancy by chemical and physical examination prior to
performing an abortion procedure.
      2.   Counseling:
         a.   Counseling shall be provided following disclosure to the patient
of the diagnosis of pregnancy, and prior to performance of any surgical
procedure. It shall be done individually and in a room designated for such use
which shall not be the procedure room.
         b.   Counseling shall be done by a person qualified to:
            (1)   Discuss alternatives for dealing with an unwanted pregnancy;
            (2)   Describe the procedures used in the facility;
            (3)   Explain the risks and possible complications of each
procedure.
Demonstration of such counseling qualifications shall be required by the
Village Medical Director.
      3.   Preoperative Requirements:
         a.   Surgical procedures shall not be performed on patients having
medical, surgical or psychiatric conditions or complications as specified by
the consulting committee in the facility's written policies.
      4.   Postoperative Requirements:
         a.   Each obstetrical/gynecological service shall provide Rh factor
sensitization prophylaxis to all Rh negative patients according to standard
medical procedures.
         b.   All tissue removed during the performance of an abortion shall be
weighed and examined by a qualified pathologist who is affiliated with a
licensed laboratory or hospital, who shall determine the presence or absence of
both fetal and placental tissue by the most appropriate methods. He shall,
within seven (7) days, provide a written report of the examination and findings
to the attending physician, and the ambulatory surgical treatment center. A
copy of the report shall be included in the patient's clinical record.
      5.   Reports:
         a.   A report of each abortion procedure performed in an ambulatory
surgical treatment center shall be made to the Village Medical Director on
forms provided by him. These reports shall be submitted not later than ten (10)
days following the month in which the abortion was performed. Reports shall be
submitted on procedures performed whether or not the patient was pregnant.
         b.   Reports shall not be filled out in such a manner or at such a
time as to avoid accurate reporting of complications.
         c.   If the facility becomes aware of a complication following the
submission of the original report, then an amended report shall be submitted to
the Village Medical Director.
         d.   Reports shall be kept confidential, and shall be available for
statistical purposes only. (Ords. 79-24-42, 79-25-47, 87-5-18)
8-3-14: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; NOTICE AND HEARING:
   A.   The Village Medical Director, after notice and opportunity for hearing
to the applicant or licensee, may deny, suspend or revoke a license to open,
conduct and maintain an ambulatory surgical treatment center in any case in
which he finds that there has been a substantial failure to comply with the
provisions of this Chapter or State law or the standards, rules and regulations
established by virtue thereof.
   B.   Such notice shall be effected by certified mail or by personal service
setting forth the particular reasons for the proposed action and fixing a date,
not less than fifteen (15) days from the date of such mailing or service, at
which time the applicant or licensee shall be given an opportunity for a
hearing.
   C.   The hearing shall be conducted by the Village Manager and the Village
Health and Sanitation Officer and, if in the opinion of the Village Medical
Director it is necessary, outside medical experts, designated in writing by the
Village Medical Director as hearing officers to conduct the hearing. On the
basis of any such hearing, or upon default of the applicant or licensee, the
hearing officers shall make a determination specifying their findings and
conclusions. A copy of such determination shall be sent by certified mail or
served personally upon the applicant or licensee.
   D.   A full and complete record shall be kept of all proceedings, including
the notice of hearing, complaint, and all other documents in the nature of
pleadings, written motions filed in the proceedings, and the report and orders
of the Village Medical Director and hearing officers. All testimony shall be
recorded by a court reporter but need not be transcribed. A copy or copies of
the transcript may be obtained by any interested party on payment of the cost
of preparing such copy or copies. (Ords. 79-24-42, 79-25-47, 87-5-18)
8-3-15: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The Village Medical Director shall make or cause to be made such
inspections and investigations as he deems necessary but in no case less than
four (4) inspections of any licensed facility in a fiscal year.
   B.   Every facility licensed under this Chapter and any premises proposed to
be conducted as a facility by an applicant for a license shall be open at all
reasonable times to an inspection authorized in writing by the Village Medical
Director. No notice need be given to any person prior to any inspection.
   C.   Whenever an inspection of any ambulatory surgical treatment center
discloses that the continued operation of such facility constitutes an imminent
and serious menace to the health or safety of the patients thereof, the
inspector is authorized to immediately close such facility. Once the facility
has been closed, the personnel employed there shall cease any activity related
to the patients, unless continued treatment of any given patient is necessary
to protect his health or life. A written order setting forth the grounds on
which any action under this Section is based shall be served on the licensee
within twenty four (24) hours after such action is taken. Any licensee whose
ambulatory surgical treatment center has been closed may, within ten (10) days
thereafter, by written notice, request that the Village Medical Director
conduct a hearing and a reinspection under the provisions of this Chapter. If a
subsequent inspection discloses that the violations of this Chapter or rules,
regulations, or standards have been abated, the Village Medical Director shall
cancel the order of closing and permit patients to be treated therein. The
remedies provided in this Section are in addition to and not exclusive of any
other remedy provided by law. (Ords. 79-24-42, 79-25-47, 87-5-18)
8-3-16: COMPLAINTS:
The Village Medical Director shall establish by rule a procedure for receiving
and investigating complaints regarding any ambulatory surgical treatment center
or any physician practicing in any such facility. (Ords. 79-24-42, 79-25-47,
87-5-18)
8-3-17: PENALTY:
Any person opening, conducting or maintaining an ambulatory surgical treatment
center without a license issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be guilty of an
offense punishable by a fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), and each
day's violation shall constitute a separate offense. For violation of any other
provision of this Chapter, such offender shall be guilty of an offense
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ords. 79-24-42, 79-25-47, 99-5-11)
8-3-18: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part of this Chapter,
or application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall, for any reason, be
adjudged to be unconstitutional or invalid, said judgment shall not affect,
impair or invalidate the remainder of this Chapter and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances, but shall be confined in its
operation to the provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part
thereof directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have
been rendered and to the person or circumstances involved. It is hereby
declared to be the legislative intent of the Village President and Board of
Trustees that this Chapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional or
invalid provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part thereof not
been included. (Ord. 79-36-83)
CHAPTER 4
LICENSE EXEMPT BUSINESSES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Registration With The Village
8-4-1: REGISTRATION WITH THE VILLAGE:
Nonmedical, health related businesses expressly exempted from being subject to
the village of Oak Lawn licensing procedure by the state of Illinois, shall not
be required to register with the business license officer. These businesses
include, but are not limited to: barbers, cosmetologists 1 , carrier pigeons 2
, dieticians and nutrition counselors 3 , and massage therapists 4 . (Ords. 06-
10-55, 07-04-14)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 410/1-3.
2 2. 510 ILCS 45/8.
3 3. 225 ILCS 30/180.
4 4. 225 ILCS 57/55.
CHAPTER 5
GARBAGE, REFUSE AND ELECTRONIC RECYCLING
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: License Required For Private Disposal
8-5-3: Private Scavengers
8-5-4: Garbage Deposits, Accumulations Restricted
8-5-5: Containers Required, Specifications
8-5-6: Collection Regulations, Requirements
8-5-7: Charges For Village Collection
8-5-8: Refuse Vehicles
8-5-9: Consumer Electronic Recycling
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the disposal,
accumulation and removal of refuse and to eliminate unhealthy, unsanitary and
unsightly conditions in the village. (1951 Code
6-6-1)
8-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED FOR PRIVATE DISPOSAL:
No person except as herein provided, acting as a private scavenger, shall
remove refuse from any premises in the village or transport refuse through the
streets, alleys or public ways of the village, or dump, incinerate, or in any
other manner dispose of refuse, or contract for any such removal,
transportation or disposal of refuse without first having secured a license for
such services from the village clerk, in accordance with title 3, chapter 1 of
this code 1 . (Ords. 72-31-66, 72-38-71, 72-41-77, 73-17-22, 73-19-28, 73-24-
42, 73-42-89, 74-11-15, 74-13-22; 1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-1-7 of this code for license fees.
8-5-3: PRIVATE SCAVENGERS:
   A.   Number Limited: The number of private scavenger licenses authorized to
be issued shall be as amended from time to time by ordinance adopted by the
president and board of trustees and on record in the office of the village
clerk.
   B.   Financial Statement: Each original application and each renewal
application for a scavenger license with the village shall be accompanied by a
current financial statement of the applicant.
   C.   Public Liability Bond: Every application for a scavenger license shall
be accompanied by a public liability bond in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in favor of the village.
   D.   Hold Harmless Agreement: Upon application for a scavenger license, each
licensee shall provide the clerk with an agreement to hold the village harmless
for any acts of the licensee relating to its use of the village streets and
alleys in such a manner as to cause injury or loss to persons or property. Such
agreement shall be approved by the village attorney prior to its filing with
the clerk.
   E.   Revocation Of License: The requirements of subsections B, C and D of
this section are conditions precedent to holding a scavenger's license in the
village, and the failure of a licensee to conform thereto shall cause the
revocation of the scavenger license 1 . (Ords. 72-31-66, 72-38-71, 72-41-77,
73-17-22, 73-19-28, 73-24-42, 73-42-89, 74-11-15, 74-13-22; 1985 Code; Ords.
96-3-10, 06-10-55)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-6 of this code for license revocation and hearing provisions.
8-5-4: GARBAGE DEPOSITS, ACCUMULATIONS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Placing On Property Or Exposed To Wind: No garbage or refuse of any
kind shall be deposited in any street, alley, public way or on any other
property except that of the owner, except as is provided in this chapter; and
no such refuse shall be so placed that it can be blown about or scattered by
the wind.
   B.   Accumulations Prohibited Except In Containers; Removal Required: No
occupant, person, owner, owner's agent, or tenant of any private or public
premises shall permit refuse to accumulate on such premises except in covered
containers as provided hereinafter, located in either the side yard or rear
yard of said premises, at a location no closer than ten feet (10') to any door
or window of any building located on a neighboring parcel; and all such refuse
should be removed once every seven (7) days or more often if necessary to
protect the health of the inhabitants of the village. (1951 Code 2-6-18, 6-6;
Ord. 87-22-96)
8-5-5: CONTAINERS REQUIRED, SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Every occupant, person, owner, lessee or tenant in possession of any
house, building, condominium, or apartment in the village shall at all times
maintain in good order and repair a container or containers for trash and
garbage.
   B.   A container shall be a can of galvanized iron or noncorrodible
material, rodentproof, watertight, with a tightfitting lid, and of the type
commonly sold as a garbage can, of a suitable gauge and construction to ensure
durability, of a capacity of not less than ten (10) gallons and not to exceed
thirty three (33) gallons for single-family and two-family residences.
   C.   Filthy, leaking or defective receptacles should be cleaned, repaired or
replaced as directed by the appropriate representative of the village. (1951
Code 2-6-26, 2-6-17,
6-6-3; Ord. 06-10-55)
8-5-6: COLLECTION REGULATIONS, REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Hours, Placement Of Containers For Collection: No garbage or refuse
container of any kind shall be stored or deposited in any street, alley or
public way, except for the purpose of pick up, and then only between the hours
of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. the day before pick up and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
the day of the pick up.
   B.   Hours Of Collection; Days Prohibited:
      1.   Under its powers as a home rule municipality the village restricts
the time of refuse and garbage collection within the village limits by firms
under contract to the village and by firms licensed by the village to do so to
five thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M. until six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M.
      2.   No collection of garbage shall be made on Sundays or holidays.
   C.   Private Collection From Commercial Establishments: Occupants, tenants,
or persons in possession of commercial buildings may arrange for disposal of
refuse by private contract but shall establish proof to the satisfaction of the
Village that refuse is being properly removed from the premises. A designated
representative of the Village, in the absence of proof that means of disposal
or removal have been contracted by or provided for, may inspect the premises
and remove therefrom any and all refuse found therein for which removal the
required fees shall be paid by the person in whose name the Village carries the
water account of the subject property.
   D.   Village Collection Required For Residences: Every occupant, person,
owner or person in possession of a dwelling place in the Village shall be
required to have accumulations of refuse removed and disposed of by the Village
or its delegated representative and for such refuse removal services shall pay
to the Village the sum specified for such services. (1951 Code
6-6-4,
6-6-6; Ords. 64-18, 74-3-3, 06-10-55)
8-5-7: CHARGES FOR VILLAGE COLLECTION:
   A.   Effective October 1, 2024, refuse collection charges for each
residential and nonresidential account shall be as follows:
      1.   Residential quarterly billing:
         a.   Seniors (over age 65): Sixty-seven dollars and forty-four cents
($67.44);
         b.   Person(s) with a disability: Sixty-seven dollars and forty-four
cents ($67.44);
            (1)   “Person(s) with a disability” as used in this section means
any person who is, and who is expected to indefinitely continue to be, subject
to any of the five (5) types of disabilities consistent with the term as
defined in the Illinois State Statute, 15 Illinois Compiled Statutes 335/4A; or
person(s) with a disability that are receiving social security or SSI benefits.
This reduction shall only apply to homeowners with a disability as defined
above or alternatively, legal guardians of a person with a disability who
reside in the residence of the applicant seeking the reduction.
            (2)   The Village of Oak Lawn recognizes that it lacks the
resources to establish a system for determining whether an applicant under this
section is a “person(s) with a disability” as defined herein. As a result, in
order to receive the reduction allowed under this section, the Village of Oak
Lawn will only accept the following documents as validation of proof that the
applicant is a “person with a disability” or has a disability and is receiving
social security or SSI benefits:
               (A)    Person(s) with a disability validation. The applicant
must provide a valid “Illinois person with a disability identification card”
obtained through the Illinois Secretary of State as provided for in 15 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 335/4.
               (B)   Social security validation. The applicant must provide a
current social security or SSI benefit verification letter which contains the
applicant’s current residence, age and disability.
         c.   Nonseniors: Seventy-six dollars and seventy-four cents ($76.74).
      2.   Nonresidential monthly billing:
         a.   All customers: Twenty-five dollars and fifty-eight cents
($25.58).
         All charges shall be billed to and paid by the occupant, owner or
owner’s agent, tenant, or individual in whose name the water account appears,
or otherwise as the Village Collector may provide. Collection of the charges
for water provided, sewage treated and refuse collected shall not be collected
separately from each other. Wherever refuse disposal is not required for a full
billing cycle, the individual furnished the service shall pay on a pro rata
basis for portions of the billing cycle during which he receives services. The
basic charge shall entitle each account to a weekly collection of all household
waste including garbage, rubbish and recyclables.
   B.   Only one of the following listed items may be placed out for pick up,
without additional charge, each week:
      1.   Furniture and large household goods, to include, but not be limited
to, televisions, hot water heaters, sofas, dressers, lamps, chairs, tables,
mattresses, rolls of carpet (not more than 4 feet in length).
      2.   Small amounts of sod, earth, and rocks, provided the items listed
are put into a suitable container not exceeding sixty (60) pounds.
      3.   Construction material (except new construction) including, but not
limited to, furnaces, bathtubs, shower stalls, doors, windows, and other items
that are considered part of a dwelling. It shall also include loose remodeling
and repair construction materials, provided such items are put in a suitable
container or in a bundle not exceeding four feet (4') in length, and not
weighing over sixty (60) pounds.
Customers who wish to set out more than one of the items listed per week will
be directed to contact the contractor to make arrangements for collection at an
additional cost.
Dead animals and white goods (such as refrigerators, air conditioners,
freezers, washing machines, dryers, dishwashers, microwaves, etc.) will be
collected at no additional charge.
   C.   Organic (living) Christmas trees shall be collected, free of charge, a
minimum of two (2) weeks after January 1 of each year from each dwelling
serviced under this contract. Christmas trees shall be collected on regularly
scheduled collection days.
   D.   In an effort to encourage management of landscape waste at a location,
the pick up of landscape waste is to be provided on the same day and as part of
the regular refuse pick up, between April 1 and November 30 of each year.
Bundles of brush or tree clippings shall be collected as part of the regular
landscape waste pick up, provided the weight of such bundles does not exceed
sixty (60) pounds, the length of material does not exceed four feet (4'), and/
or the diameter of each bundle does not exceed three feet (3'). Logs over four
inches (4") in diameter must be stacked separately at the curb and cut into
lengths of twenty four inches (24") with individual pieces not exceeding eight
inches (8") in diameter. The foregoing does not include any branches or trees
cut by private contractors hired by the customer. (Ords. 13-15-56, 14-04-10,
14-13-25, 15-05-18, 16-06-12, 17-04-09, 18-24-83, 19-23-74, 20-19-56, 21-21-98,
22-19-64, 23-15-60, 24-16-60)
8-5-8: REFUSE VEHICLES:
   A.   Vehicles To Be Covered: All refuse vehicles shall be covered whenever
possible so that refuse or garbage being carried will not be open except when
necessary.
   B.   Disinfection Of Vehicles: Any person owning or controlling any refuse
vehicle shall cause all such vehicles to be thoroughly disinfected at least
once a week unless the same shall not have been used since the last
disinfection thereof.
   C.   Parking Refuse Vehicles: No person owning or controlling any vehicle
used for the carrying or transporting of any garbage, ashes, miscellaneous
waste or manure shall cause or permit such vehicle when in use for such purpose
to stand or remain before or near any building or premises occupied by any
person for an unreasonable or unnecessary length of time. (1951 Code 6-6-7)
8-5-9: CONSUMER ELECTRONIC RECYCLING:
   A.   Consumer electronics or covered electronic device means any computer,
computer monitor, television, printer, electronic keyboard, facsimile machine,
videocassette recorder, portable digital music player that has memory
capability and is battery powered, digital video disc player, video game
console, electronic mouse, scanner, digital converter box, cable receiver,
satellite receiver, digital video disc recorder, or small-scale server sold at
retail.
   B.   In the event that the Village hosts a collection program or one-day
collection for consumer electronics or covered electronic devices, the Village
may charge a thirty-five dollar ($35) collection fee for each television or
monitor collected.
   C.   The effective date of the imposition of the fee is January 1, 2021.
(Ord. 21-01-04)
CHAPTER 6
WEEDS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Definition
8-6-2: Duty To Cut Or Destroy; Destruction By Village
8-6-3: Failure To Cut Or Destroy Prohibited
8-6-4: Lien For Cost Of Destruction; Release Of Lien
8-6-5: Botanical And Ecological Areas Designated
8-6-1: DEFINITION:
"Weeds" as used in this chapter shall include, but not be limited to, the
following: all grasses, annual plants, burdock, ragweed (giant), ragweed
(common), thistle, cocklebur, jimson, blue vervain, common milkweed, wild
carrot, poison ivy, wild mustard, rough pigweed, lamb's quarters, wild lettuce,
curled dock, smart weeds (all varieties), poison hemlock and wild hemp. (Ord.
19-05-09)
8-6-2: DUTY TO CUT OR DESTROY; DESTRUCTION BY VILLAGE:
It shall be the duty of every owner of real estate or person having a
beneficial interest therein to cut, control, or otherwise provide for the
destruction and proper disposal of weeds on his property at all such times as
may be necessary so that such weeds shall not exceed four inches (4") in
height, and should said owner or person fail to comply with the requirements of
this chapter, then the Village shall cause the weeds to be destroyed, cut or
controlled. (Ord. 230; 1985 Code; Ord. 06-10-55)
8-6-3: FAILURE TO CUT OR DESTROY PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be illegal and a nuisance for the owners of real
estate or persons having a beneficial interest therein to refuse or neglect to
cut or otherwise control or destroy weeds on said real estate, the abutting
parkway or an abutting alley, when such weeds shall reach a height in excess of
four inches (4"). (Ord. 08-25-84)
8-6-4: LIEN FOR COST OF DESTRUCTION; RELEASE OF LIEN:
Should the weeds be cut, controlled or otherwise destroyed by the Village after
providing three (3) days' notice by mail to the property owner of record as
listed as the last person who paid Real Estate Taxes for the property, and
posting a notice on the front door of the property, or in the case of vacant
lot, in a conspicuous place, a bill for the costs incurred will be sent.
Failure to pay the charges within thirty (30) days will result in a lien of the
cost and expense therein incurred by the Village to be recorded in the
following manner: The Village or the person performing the service by the
authority of the Village in its or the owner's name may file notice of lien in
the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Cook County. The notice of lien shall
consist of a sworn statement setting out:
   A.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification thereof.
   B.   The amount of money representing all the costs and expenses incurred or
payable for the service plus interest calculated at one percent (1%) per month,
twelve percent (12%) annual percentage rate until satisfaction of the lien.
   C.   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
Village.
Said notice of lien shall be filed within sixty (60) days after the costs and
expenses are incurred.
Upon payment of the cost and expense, plus interest at the rate of one percent
(1%) per month, after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released
by the Village or person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release
shall be filed of record in the same manner as filing notice of the said lien.
(Ord. 19-05-09)
8-6-5: BOTANICAL AND ECOLOGICAL AREAS DESIGNATED:
   A.   Where competent botanists and ecologists determine that a certain area
in the Village contains plant life which is valuable for botanical and
ecological study, the provisions of section
8-6-2 of this chapter shall not apply.
   B.   Upon notification in writing by the Village, the owner or owners of
property which the Board of Trustees declares to be a botanical and ecological
area shall not be required to cut down weeds or other plants on said property.
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the property owner
shall cut such weeds and noxious plants back to a point fifteen feet (15') from
the street or property line, whichever is the furthest.
   D.   Nothing contained herein shall require the property owner to maintain
the botanical and ecological area, and the option to use the property in any
legal manner desired remains the unqualified right of the owner. (Ord. 75-27-
103; 1985 Code)
CHAPTER 7
DUTCH ELM DISEASE
SECTION:
8-7-1: Nuisance Declared
8-7-2: Enforcement
8-7-3: Notice, Removal Of Violations
8-7-4: Abatement Of Violation And Lien For Costs Of Tree Removal
8-7-5: Release Of Lien
8-7-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any tree of the species of elm which is infected with Dutch elm disease is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and shall be removed within thirty
(30) days following notification of the discovery of such infection. It shall
be unlawful for any person being the owner of property whereupon any such
diseased tree is situated, to possess or keep such a tree after the expiration
of thirty (30) days following notification of the discovery of said infection.
(Ord. 95-22-96)
8-7-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The Department of Public Works is charged with enforcement of this Chapter and
to that end may enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for
purposes of inspecting such premises for the presence thereon of trees infected
with Dutch elm disease, and may remove such samples, portions, or specimens
therefrom as are required to determine whether any tree thereon is infected. It
shall be unlawful for any person to prevent the Department of Public Works from
entering upon private property for purposes of carrying out its duties
hereunder, or to interfere with said Department of Public Works in the lawful
performance of its duties under the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 95-22-96)
8-7-3: NOTICE, REMOVAL OF VIOLATIONS:
The Department of Public Works shall give to the owner of the premises where
the public nuisance described in Section
8-7-1 is found, a written notice of the existence of such nuisance. Service of
the notice required by this Section shall be by personal service or by
registered mail to the person who is listed as the taxpayer of record for said
property. In addition to advising the owner of the existence of the nuisance,
said notice shall include the following:
   A.   A copy of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-12;
   B.   A copy of Title 8, Chapter 7 of the Village Code;
   C.   The common address for the property in question;
   D.   The permanent tax index number for the property in question;
   E.   An identification of the specific tree or trees affected; and
   F.   A statement indicating that if the identified nuisance is not remedied
within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice, the Village will enter upon
the property, abate the nuisance by removing the diseased tree(s) and bill the
property owner and/or lien the property for the reasonable cost of said
abatement. (Ord. 95-22-96)
8-7-4: ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION AND LIEN FOR COSTS OF TREE REMOVAL:
If, after the giving of notice as required by Section
8-7-3 above, the property owner refuses or neglects to remove the identified
infected tree(s), the Public Works Department may enter upon the property in
question and abate the nuisance by removing said tree(s). The reasonable cost
for said removal shall be billed to the property owner. If said property owner
refuses or neglects to pay said bill, a lien in the amount of said costs shall
be recorded/registered with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds/Registrar of
Titles. Said lien shall be recorded/registered within sixty (60) days after
such costs are incurred by the Village, and shall consist of a sworn statement
setting forth the following:
   A.   The legal description of the property;
   B.   The permanent tax index number of the property;
   C.   The common address of the property;
   D.   The cost incurred by the Village in removing the tree(s); and
   E.   The date(s) on which the tree removal work was performed.
Upon the recording/registering of said lien, a copy thereof shall be forwarded
by first class U.S. mail to the taxpayer of record for said property. (Ord. 95-
22-96)
8-7-5: RELEASE OF LIEN:
Upon receipt of payment consisting of the amount of the lien, the Village's
actual cost for recording the lien and a fifty dollar ($50.00) fee for the
Village's administrative costs in preparing the lien and the release, the
Village shall issue a release of lien to the person making said payment. (Ord.
95-22-96)
CHAPTER 8
PROPERTY CONDITIONS
SECTION:
8-8-1: Statement Of Purpose
8-8-2: Notice To Clean Up Property, Remove Debris
8-8-3: Failure To Abate; Abatement By Village
8-8-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the physical conditions
of property and to eliminate unhealthy, unsanitary, dangerous and unsightly
conditions, attractive nuisances, mosquito producing, and rodent breeding
areas. (Ord. 19-05-09)
8-8-2: NOTICE TO CLEAN UP PROPERTY, REMOVE DEBRIS:
It shall be the duty of the Health and Sanitation Officer or chief building
inspector to send a notice by mail to the property owner of record as listed as
the last person who paid Real Estate Taxes for the property, and posting a
notice on the front door of the property, or in the case of vacant lot, in a
conspicuous place, informing him that he is in violation of this chapter. The
notice to clean up the property shall direct the owner to remove any existing
debris, garbage, bushes or piles of other organic material, building materials,
abandoned household goods, automotive parts, paper products, food and beverage
containers and all other types of refuse not indigenous to the vacant lot in a
natural state. The notice shall also direct the owners to cut existing foliage
and vegetation to a height of no more than four inches (4") over the surface of
the property. It may be required to bulldoze property where there is densely
overgrown land, which could provide harborage for rodents, vermin, insects that
jeopardize the health of man or which may be used as shelter from police
patrols, which might serve to further illegal activities, and the property
shall be cleared of bushes, and other growing foliage, as well as tall grass,
weeds, etc. The notice shall provide three (3) days, upon receipt of the
notice, for the owner to cause abatement of complained upon conditions of his
property. (Ord. 19-05-09)
8-8-3: FAILURE TO ABATE; ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
   A.   If, three (3) days after receiving the notice or its return
undelivered, the owner has failed to abate conditions, the Village, through its
agents, servants or employees may go upon the property and take such measures
as are necessary for abating the conditions complained of.
   B.   The costs and expenses incurred by the Village, including
administrative and legal costs for work and materials under this chapter, shall
be charged against the property, and a bill for services shall be sent. Failure
to reimburse the Village within thirty (30) days will result in a lien filed on
behalf of the Village as provided by statute, plus interest at the rate of one
percent (1%) per month, or twelve percent (12%) per year, until satisfaction of
the lien. (Ord. 19-05-09)
CHAPTER 9
RODENT CONTROL
SECTION:
8-9-1: Rodent Control Requirements
8-9-2: Notice Requiring Abatement Of Infestation
8-9-3: Failure To Abate; Abatement By Village
8-9-4: Penalty
8-9-1: RODENT CONTROL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All structures and properties shall be kept free from insect
infestation and rodent infestations. All garbage, debris and refuse shall be so
stored in a garbage can and / or dumpster free of holes with lids completely
closed as not to invite insects or rodents or be unsightly or a nuisance.
Exterior storage of items not manufactured and intended for outdoor
recreational yard use are not permitted. Acceptable items are items such as
patio furniture, grill, and play yard equipment. All non-conforming items must
be stored inside an enclosed structure, or removed.
   B.   All structures and/or properties in which insect infestation or rodent
harborage is found or suspected shall be promptly exterminated at the property
owner’s expense by a village-approved rodent abatement/control company.
   C.   All residential rental properties and multi-family properties,
including, but not limited to, condominiums, apartments, modular or
manufactured housing, shall be treated around the exterior of the property not
less than on a quarterly basis by a licensed rodent control company. For
purposes of this Section, “treat,” “treated” and “treatment” means “structural
pest control” as defined in the Illinois Structural Pest Control Act, 225 ILCS
235/3.09, as amended from time to time. Activity result reports and / or
receipts shall be made available to the village upon request of a village
inspector. If, upon inspection of any residential property, there is found or
suspected to be insect and / or rodent infestation in more than one (1)
dwelling unit, the landlord / owner shall contract with a licensed rodent
control company to treat all common areas and infested dwelling units on no
less than a monthly basis for twelve (12) consecutive months. Tenants shall
cooperate with the landlord / property owner in the control, treatment and
eradication of all rodent and / or insect infestation found, or reasonably
suspected to be, in the tenant’s rental unit. A tenant’s cooperation may
include making any necessary preparations, such as cleaning, vacuuming or
removing personal property for proper treatment recommended by the licensed
rodent control company. (Ords. 21-20-91, 21-22-102)
8-9-2: NOTICE REQUIRING ABATEMENT OF INFESTATION:
It shall be the duty of the health and sanitation officer or chief building
inspector of the village to give notice in writing, by personal service thereof
or by certified mail to the owner, agent, or occupant in charge of any
building, structure, premises or vacant parcel of land, and persons interested
therein, requiring them to take immediate measures for preventing ingress or
the harborage of rats, rodents or vermin to or on their property, building,
structure, premises or vacant parcel of land and the extermination thereof. The
health and sanitation officer or chief building inspector shall provide
technical advice and assistance upon request, but it shall be the
responsibility of the owner, agent, or occupant so notified to bear the
responsibility and expense of the extermination of the rodents. (1951 Code 15-
5-1; Ords. 184, 74-11-16; 1985 Code; Ords. 06-10-55, 20-08-21, 21-20-91)
8-9-3: FAILURE TO ABATE; ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
   A.   When measures for the prevention of ingress of rats, rodents or vermin
and the extermination thereof are not complied with within forty-eight (48)
hours after receipt of notice from the health and sanitation officer or chief
building inspector, and if the health officer or chief building inspector deems
the situation to be of sufficient danger to the residents of the area, whereby
the health officer or chief building inspector declares a health and sanitation
emergency, then the village, through its agents, servants or employees may go
upon the premises and take such measures as are necessary for the extermination
of rats, rodents or vermin therein, and the prevention of ingress.
   B.   The cost and expenses incurred by the village for work and materials
under this chapter shall be charged to and collected from the owners of and
persons interested in the property, premises, building or structure or vacant
parcel of land, and the village or persons performing work or furnishing
necessary materials on its behalf shall have payment within thirty (30) days of
billing. Failure to provide payment within the prescribed time period will
result in a lien being filed on behalf of the village, in addition to payment
of interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month, or twelve percent (12%)
annual rate, until satisfaction of the lien.
   C.   When rats, rodents or vermin are discovered in a public way i.e.
Village of Oak Lawn alley or public road, the Village of Oak Lawn shall be
responsible for the abatement program. Should it be discovered that the origin
of those rats, rodents or vermin found in public way are from a property,
premises, building or structure or vacant parcel of land, then said owners of
and persons interested in the originating property shall be responsible for the
cost and expenses incurred by the village for work and materials under this
chapter shall be charged to and collected from the owners of and persons
interested in the property, premises, building or structure or vacant parcel of
land. (1951 Code 15-5-3; Ords. 184, 74-11-16; 1985 Code; Ords. 06-10-55, 20-08-
21, 21-20-91)
8-9-4: PENALTY:
If, after proper notification as stated in this chapter, the owner, agent,
occupant or persons interested therein fail to comply with the abatement notice
in forty-eight (48) hours or if the village shall take direct action to
safeguard the health and safety of the residents of the area, then the owner,
agent, occupant or persons interested therein so failing to abate shall be
further fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ords. 74-11-16, 06-10-55, 20-08-21, 21-20-91)
CHAPTER 10
BUNGEE CORD JUMPING
SECTION:
8-10-1: Definitions
8-10-2: Bungee Cord Jumping And Reverse Bungee Cord Jumping Prohibited
8-10-3: Penalty
8-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
BUNGEE CORD JUMPING AND BUNGEE JUMPING: The sport, activity or practice of
jumping, falling, stepping out of, dropping or otherwise being released into
the air while attached or fastened to any type of cord or rope or other device,
including cords made of rubber, latex or other elastic-type material, whether
natural or synthetic, whereby the cord stops, lengthens or shortens the fall of
any person, allowing the person to bounce up and down, ultimately intending to
bring the person to a stop at a point above the surface.
REVERSE BUNGEE CORD JUMPING AND REVERSE BUNGEE JUMPING: The sport, activity or
practice of attaching or fastening one's self to any type of cord or rope or
other device, including cords specified in the definition above, whereby a
person is located below a device or structure or machine from which a cord or
rope is suspended or attached and is released to cause the person to be
propelled, catapulted or otherwise launched out of a fixed position into the
air, allowing the person to bounce up and down, ultimately intending to bring
the person to a stop at a point above the surface. (Ord. 92-19-71)
8-10-2: BUNGEE CORD JUMPING AND REVERSE BUNGEE CORD JUMPING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in bungee cord jumping or reverse
bungee cord jumping in any form whatsoever, whether open to the general public,
or for demonstration, exhibition, or any other purpose, within the corporate
limits of the Village or on any property owned by the Village. (Ord. 92-19-71)
8-10-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined an amount
not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ords. 92-19-71, 99-5-11)
CHAPTER 11
HOSPITALS
SECTION:
8-11-1: Definitions
8-11-2: License Required
8-11-3: License; Application; Inquiry
8-11-4: License Fee
8-11-5: Code Compliance
8-11-6: Inspections
8-11-7: Reports Filed
8-11-8: Penalties For Violations
8-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL: A hospital devoted exclusively to caring for children or
any facility within a hospital or on the campus of a hospital devoted
exclusively to caring for children.
HOSPITAL: A health facility as defined in section 3(A) of the Illinois hospital
licensing act 1 . (Ord. 07-04-14)
 
Notes
1 1. 210 ILCS 85/3.
8-11-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate any
hospital or children's hospital within the village without first obtaining a
license therefor. (Ord. 07-04-14)
8-11-3: LICENSE; APPLICATION; INQUIRY:
An application for such hospital/children's hospital license shall be made in
conformity with the general requirements of this code for all business
licenses, as set forth in title 3, chapter 1 of this code. In addition, the
applicant shall file a copy of the application with the department of quality
control and shall state the location or proposed location of the hospital/
children's hospital, the purpose for which it is to be conducted or operated;
the accommodations or proposed accommodations for those housed therein, the
nature and kind of treatment given or proposed to be given therein, the name
and address of the chief physician, surgeon, or attending chief physician or
surgeon, or board of physicians or surgeons attendant therein, as well as the
name and address of said hospital's/children's hospital's business manager/
chief administrator.
The department of quality control, upon the presentation of such application
for a license shall make, or cause to be made, inquiry into the facts set out
in such application to ascertain whether such hospital/children's hospital is,
or is intended to be, so conducted as to afford proper accommodations for the
care of persons received or proposed to be received therein, and that the chief
physician or surgeon, or intended chief physician or surgeon, or board of
physicians or surgeons thereof, at the time of such application gives, or is
under agreement thereafter to give, such attendance therein as does or will
render him, her or them responsible, professionally, for the medical or
surgical treatment given or to be given to any and all patients therein, and
that such chief physician or surgeon, or board of physicians or surgeons is
regularly authorized to act as such under the laws of the state, and that such
hospital/children's hospital complies or intends to comply with all the laws,
rules and regulations which shall then be in force concerning the management
operation and control of such hospital/children's hospital. A copy of the
hospital's/children's hospital's current license from the state of Illinois
shall accompany any such application. (Ord. 07-04-14)
8-11-4: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   The license fee to be paid for each hospital/children's hospital shall
be as set forth in section
3-1-1-7 of this code.
   B.   Each original application and renewal application shall be accompanied
by a certification from the Illinois department of public health setting forth
the approved number of beds relative to the hospital/children's hospital.
   C.   A separate license shall be required for a children's hospital
hereunder, notwithstanding the fact that said children's hospital may be
affiliated with and/or located on the same property as a hospital. (Ord. 07-04-
14)
8-11-5: CODE COMPLIANCE:
The building or buildings used or to be used as a hospital/children's hospital
shall comply with all applicable village code provisions, including, but not
limited to, all provisions relating to building construction, zoning, fire
prevention, health and sanitation. In addition, all hospitals/children's
hospitals shall be operated and maintained in full compliance with all
applicable rules and regulations of the Illinois department of public health
(77 Illinois administrative code section 250.110 et seq.) as well as all
applicable state and federal laws. (Ord. 07-04-14)
8-11-6: INSPECTIONS:
Every hospital/children's hospital shall at all times be open to inspection by
the authorized representatives of the village, whenever and as often as the
village shall deem proper. (Ord. 07-04-14)
8-11-7: REPORTS FILED:
The village shall annually file a report with the Illinois department of public
health, setting forth whether the hospital(s)/children's hospital(s) licensed
by the village is/are being operated and maintained in full compliance with
this chapter. (Ord. 07-04-14)
8-11-8: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), and a separate and distinct offense shall be
considered as having been committed for each and every day on which said
violation continues. In addition to said fine, the license revocation
provisions of section
3-1-6 of this code shall be applicable to a hospital/children's hospital
license. (Ord. 07-04-14)
CHAPTER 12
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
8-12-1: Prohibition
8-12-1: PROHIBITION:
   A.   Except as hereinafter provided, in accordance with the terms and
provisions of the smoke free Illinois act 1 , as now existing or hereafter
amended, which is adopted by reference herein, smoking and the use of
electronic cigarettes in public places or places of employment within the
village is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Pursuant to section 65 of the act, which permits municipal regulations
to be more restrictive than the act, the following additional restrictions
shall apply within the village:
      1.   Smoking and the use of electronic cigarettes are prohibited within
fifteen and one-half feet (151/2') of any entrance to a public place or place
of employment; and
      2.   Smoking and the use of electronic cigarettes are prohibited in
enclosed common areas and hallways of multi-unit residential and condominium
buildings.
   C.   A person who smokes or uses an electronic cigarette in an area where
smoking and the use of electronic cigarettes are prohibited under this section
shall be fined in an amount that is not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00), nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). A person who
owns, operates or otherwise controls a public place or place of employment that
violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), or more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for the first offense, not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
second offense, and not less than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00)
for each subsequent offense occurring within one year from the date of the
first offense. (Ord. 16-02-08)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 13
SNOW REMOVAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-13-1: Snow Removal Required
8-13-2: Penalty
8-13-1: SNOW REMOVAL REQUIRED:
Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or other person having charge of any
business premises in the Village, including a building or lot utilized for
business purposes, abutting upon any public way or public place, and every
owner, agent or manager of a rental dwelling as defined in section
6-5B-7 of this Code shall utilize their best efforts to remove snow and ice
from the sidewalk in front of such business premises, or rental dwelling
sidewalk and parking facility, as quickly as possible on the day on which said
precipitation falls or by ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on the day following an
ongoing snow or ice event.
In case the snow and ice on the sidewalk, or parking facility ancillary to the
use by a rental dwelling, shall be frozen so hard that they cannot be removed
without injury to the pavement, the person having charge of any building
premises, or rental dwelling, as aforesaid shall cause the sidewalk abutting
the said premises, to be strewn with ashes, sand, sawdust, salt or some similar
suitable material and shall, as soon thereafter as the weather shall permit,
thoroughly clean said sidewalk. (Ord. 18-05-17)
8-13-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be advised of his
violation on the first occurrence and may be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
subsequent offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 18-05-17)
CHAPTER 14
RECYCLING FOR MULTI-FAMILY STRUCTURES 1
SECTION:
8-14-1: Definitions
8-14-2: Non-Mandatory Recycling Area
8-14-3: Maintenance Of Recycling Area
8-14-4: Reserved
8-14-5: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. This chapter shall be effective July 1, 2012.
8-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter:
   MULTI-FAMILY STRUCTURE: A building with more than one residential living
unit which does not participate in the village of Oak Lawn curbside refuse,
recyclables and landscape waste collection and disposal services.
   OWNER: Any person or entity such as a condominium or homeowners'
association, jointly and severally having an ownership interest in the property
or being otherwise responsible for refuse or garbage collection. (Ord. 12-09-
29)
8-14-2: NON-MANDATORY RECYCLING AREA:
Owners of multi-family structures shall maintain a recycling area for residents
located within a common area in or near the building and consisting of bins or
other containers for the purpose of collecting and recycling items including,
but not limited to:
   A.   Paper:
      Chipboard or paperboard.
      Corrugated cardboard.
      Junk mail.
      Kraftbags.
      Magazines and catalogs.
      Newspaper.
      Telephone directories.
   B.   Nonpaper:
      Aluminum foil/formed containers.
      Clear/colored glass bottles/jars.
      Clear/colored HDPE bottles.
      Clear/colored PET bottles.
      Metal food and beverage cans. (Ords. 12-09-29, 20-08-22)
8-14-3: MAINTENANCE OF RECYCLING AREA:
The owner shall maintain the recycling area including the containers and/or
bins in a clean, sanitary, and litter free manner. (Ord. 12-09-29)
8-14-4: RESERVED:
Repealed by Ord. 25-07-11.
8-14-5: PENALTY:
Any person or entity found to be in violation of any of the provisions of the
chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and
not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per violation. (Ords. 12-09-29, 20-
08-22)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Village Responsibility, Supervision
9-1A-2: Streets Village Property
9-1A-3: Street Construction Requirements
9-1A-4: Building Construction, Sidewalks And Parkways Required
9-1A-5: Repairs, Maintenance Required
9-1A-6: Barricades
9-1A-7: Parking Strip Beautification
9-1A-8: Numbering Of Premises
9-1A-9: Encroachments
9-1A-10: Erection Of Poles, Wires; Permission Required
9-1A-11: Stairways, Openings; Permit Required
9-1A-12: Prohibited Acts, Conditions
9-1A-13: Dumpsters On Public Rights Of Way
9-1A-14: Camping Prohibited In Public Places
9-1A-1: VILLAGE RESPONSIBILITY, SUPERVISION:
   A.   Village Responsibility Declared: It is hereby declared that the village
has no responsibility to construct a street or streets within the village at
village expense and that the obligation of the village is to maintain and
repair village streets after they have been constructed under the supervision
of the director of office of quality control.
   B.   Supervision Generally, Enforcement: All public streets, alleys,
sidewalks and other public ways in the village shall be under the supervision
of the public works department. Said department shall be charged with the
enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to such public places, except
traffic ordinances, and is hereby authorized to enforce such ordinances. (1951
Code 6-1-8, 6-5-1; Ord. 81-12-19; 1985 Code)
9-1A-2: STREETS VILLAGE PROPERTY:
   A.   Permission Required To Create, Close: All streets, public alleys,
public easements and thoroughfares in the village shall be the property of the
village under the control and management of the president and board of
trustees; and no additional streets, easements or alleys shall be created and
no existing streets or alleys shall be closed without the permission of the
village board.
   B.   Conveyance To Accompany Dedication: When any plat is submitted to the
village board for approval or when any portion of land is to be dedicated to
the village for a public thoroughfare, such dedication or plat shall be
accompanied by an instrument conveying full title to the village, instead of
easement rights, in the portion to become a public thoroughfare. (1951 Code 6-
1-1, 6-1-2)
9-1A-3: STREET CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Datum Adopted: All elevations shall be referred to the city of Chicago
datum.
   B.   Grades: Except as otherwise provided in title 5 of this code relating
to subdivisions, grade levels prevailing at the time this code becomes
effective shall be the official grades for all thoroughfares flanked by one or
more houses; provided, however, that in any block where no houses are located,
no grade level will be deemed to exist. Prior to erection of any edifice in any
block where no grade level is established, the owner or contractor erecting
such edifice shall make application to the village board for the establishment
of a grade level. The term "grade level" with regard to existing levels shall
be understood to mean the crown of any thoroughfare currently maintained by the
village, county or state.
   C.   Widths Of Streets: All streets in the village shall be of the widths
prescribed by the president and board of trustees.
   D.   Location Of Curb Lines: The curb line of all streets shall be set by
the village board. (1951 Code 2-8-3, 6-1-3, 6-1-6)
9-1A-4: BUILDING CONSTRUCTION, SIDEWALKS AND PARKWAYS REQUIRED:
   A.   Public sidewalks shall be installed on all public rights of way as per
village requirements by any building contractor or permittee. If the existing
sidewalk is in bad repair or cracked, the public sidewalk shall be replaced by
the permittee. All such construction or replacement shall be in accordance with
sections
6-1G-1 through
6-1G-3 of this code.
   B.   The public parkway shall be planted in grass and trees in all R-1, R-2,
R-3, planned R-1, R-2 and R-3 districts. Driveways crossing the parkway shall
be permitted, but no parking of vehicles shall be allowed, nor shall the
parkway be blacktopped, stoned or concreted other than the required public
sidewalks and access driveways. In other zoning districts, the parkway shall be
planted in grass and trees where required by this section. (1969 Code 6-39;
Ord. 94-10-44)
9-1A-5: REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Repairs Required, Supervision: All public streets, alley and sidewalk
pavement shall be kept in good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the
village or by the abutting owner, shall be under the supervision of the public
works department and shall be performed in accordance with sections
6-1G-1 through
6-1G-3 of this code.
   B.   Maintenance Of Parkways: It shall be the duty of each person residing
on property abutting on the village streets to maintain the area between his
lot line and the curb line free from weeds and other noxious herbage or matter
1 . Any person notified by the public works department to remove such offensive
matter from the area fronting upon his place of residence and failing to comply
therewith within seven (7) days shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   C.   Notice Of Defects, Village Employees: It shall be the duty of every
village officer or employee, becoming cognizant of any defect in any street,
alley or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to report the same to the public
works department as soon as possible. (1951 Code 6-1-5, 6-1-13, 6-1-14; 1985
Code; Ord. 94-10-94)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 6 of this code.
9-1A-6: BARRICADES:
   A.   Barricades Required:
      1.   Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk or
other public place, or making an excavation or opening in any such place shall
maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle by
reason of the work. Such barricade shall be protected by lights at nighttime.
      2.   Any defects in such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent any such
injury; and any person properly maintaining any opening or excavation in any
such place shall guard such opening or excavation while the same remains open
by proper barricades and lights.
   B.   Disturbing Barricades, Warning Lights: It shall be unlawful to disturb
or interfere with any barricade or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark
any new pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley or
sidewalk. (1951 Code 6-1-17, 17-4-14)
9-1A-7: PARKING STRIP BEAUTIFICATION:
   A.   Permission To Beautify: The village hereby grants a revocable
permission for each citizen to beautify the portion of land owned by the
village and located between his premises and the adjoining curb line; provided,
however, that no encumbrance other than bushes, grass, flowers, trees,
decorative rocks, and fences be established thereon. The permission to beautify
granted herein shall include all other rights of possession exercisable against
all but the duly appointed or elected representatives of the village acting in
official capacity.
   B.   Trespass: An action for trespass may be brought by the landowner whose
property adjoins the parkway strip described in subsection A of this section
with respect to trespasses upon said parkway strip adjoining his property,
exclusive of the area occupied by the public sidewalk.
   C.   Obstructing Drainage Ditches: All open drainage ditches in the streets
shall be left open by the individual property owner and shall not be
obstructed. (1951 Code 6-1-4; 1985 Code)
9-1A-8: NUMBERING OF PREMISES:
Each building or premises in the village shall be designated by a number, which
number shall be visible in the front thereof and be of such size and clarity as
to be easily deciphered from the curb line of the street. A number shall be
assigned to each house by the director of office of quality control. The owner
of any house or building in the village who does not ascertain and post his
house number in accordance with the provisions of this section, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. (1951 Code 6-1-7; Ord. 81-12-19)
9-1A-9: ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Generally: Except as otherwise specifically allowed in this chapter, it
shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure that
encroaches upon any public street or property.
   B.   Street Improvements, Encroachment Regulations: The village of Oak Lawn
and/or Cook County and/or the state of Illinois, acting by and through its
department of public works and buildings, division of highways, have entered
into agreements relative to certain street improvements as follows, with
project right of way lines and encroachment plans being on file with the
village:
      87th Street between Cicero Avenue and Harlem Avenue.
      95th Street from 54th Avenue to New England Avenue.
      West 95th Street from 49th Avenue to 54th Avenue.
      Harlem Avenue.
      Illinois Route 50 (Cicero Avenue), known as FAP Route 128, state section
(50YZ-1,461,3182)WRS-1(83), village section 83-00131-00-WR.
      Southwest Highway between 95th Street and Ridgeland Avenue. (1951 Code 6-
1-19, 16-1; Ords. 67-16-4, 69-5-14, 75-4-8, 76-14-28, 80-16-35, 84-11-29, 06-
15-91)
9-1A-10: ERECTION OF POLES, WIRES; PERMISSION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or wires on or over any
public street, alley or other public way without having first secured
permission as required by article E of this chapter. (1951 Code 6-1-24; Ord.
06-15-91)
9-1A-11: STAIRWAYS, OPENINGS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any opening or stairway in any
public street, sidewalk or alley without a permit from the village board. All
such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable strong cover
or a railing, to the approval of the public works department. (1951 Code 6-1-
128; 1985 Code)
9-1A-12: PROHIBITED ACTS, CONDITIONS:
   A.   Obstructions: It shall be unlawful to:
      1.   Generally: Cause, create or maintain any obstruction of any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public way, except such as may be specifically
authorized by ordinance or by the public works department.
      2.   Selling, Displaying Goods: Use any street, sidewalk or other public
place, as space for the display or sale of goods or merchandise.
      3.   Obstructing Drains: Obstruct any drain in any public street or
alley.
   B.   Deposits On Streets, Sidewalks:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street, public sidewalk or
alley, any material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste
material, or any glass, or any articles which may do injury to any person,
animal or property.
      2.   Coal, merchandise or other materials may be deposited in streets,
sidewalks or alleys preparatory to delivery or use, provided such deposit does
not reduce the usable width of the:
         a.   Roadway at such point to less than eighteen feet (18'), and
provided that such material or coal, other than material to be used in actual
building construction, shall not be permitted to remain on such street for more
than three (3) hours.
         b.   Walk to less than four feet (4'), and provided that no such
article shall remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour.
      3.   Any such material or coal shall be guarded by lights if the same
remains upon any street during nighttime.
   C.   Damaging Pavements, Streets:
      1.   Damaging, Defacing Pavements: It shall be unlawful to:
         a.   Walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or injure any
newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning
sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft, newly laid pavement.
         b.   Write or mark any signs or advertisements on any pavement.
      2.   Vehicles Injuring Streets: No tractor, traction engine, motor truck
or other vehicle shall be operated across, over or along any street in the
village, if such vehicle has on the periphery of any of the road wheels any
block, stud, flange, cleat, ridge, lug, or any projection of metal or wood
which projects radically beyond the tread or traffic surface of the tire;
except that this prohibition shall not apply to tractors or traction engines
equipped with what is known as crawler type tractors, when the same does not
contain any projections of any kind likely to injure the surface of the road,
nor to tractors, traction engines and similar vehicles which have upon their
road wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other cleats arranged in such a manner as to
be continuously in contact with the road surface. In no event shall the surface
of any street be used as an area or space for turning any tractor or other farm
machinery in carrying on or performing any farming operations upon the adjacent
land. Provided, that nothing in this section contained shall prohibit the
operation of tractors, traction engines or motor trucks across any street in
order to reach adjacent lands if the street is protected by putting down solid
planks or other suitable devices to prevent such vehicle from injuring the
surface of the street.
   D.   Cellar Doors Above Sidewalk Surface: No cellar door shall rise or
project above the surface of the sidewalk.
   E.   Playing Games: It shall be unlawful to play any games upon any street,
alley or sidewalk, where such games cause unnecessary noise, or interfere with
traffic or pedestrians. (1951 Code 6-1-12, 6-1-15, 6-1-18, 6-1-20, 6-1-21, 6-1-
22, 6-1-23, 6-1-27, 16-1, 17-4-5; 1985 Code)
9-1A-13: DUMPSTERS ON PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, the word "dumpster" shall
be defined as any roll-off container, used for the collection of garbage and
debris, which, when transported, is transported by way of a truck equipped with
an industrial roll-off hoist.
   B.   Location: Any dumpster used within the village, when not being
transported, shall be located only on private property. In cases of undue
hardship, where it is not feasible to locate a dumpster on private property in
conjunction with its use for the collection of garbage and debris, any person,
firm or corporation, upon notification to the village public works department,
shall be allowed to locate said dumpster on a street or parkway, as determined
by the public works department, provided the following conditions are complied
with:
      1.   The dumpster shall be located on skids so not to cause damage to the
roadway or parkway;
      2.   The dumpster shall be surrounded by warning barriers with flashing
lights; and
      3.   The dumpster shall only be located on the roadway or parkway between
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
   C.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
this section shall be fined not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord.
86-15-60)
9-1A-14: CAMPING PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Definitions:
   CAMP FACILITY: Includes, but is not limited to, tents, tarpaulins, cots,
beds, boxes or cartons, hammocks, makeshift shelters, cardboard, sleeping bags,
bedding, blankets, mattresses, any other temporary physical shelter or sleeping
equipment, and portable stoves or other cooking paraphernalia.
   CAMP OR CAMPING: To place, erect, maintain, pitch or occupy camp facilities
for sleeping, storing personal property, or other habitation purposes.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any public property owned by the village of Oak Lawn,
including, but not limited to, any public street, public right of way, public
alleyway, public parking lots, public passageway, publicly owned or maintained
landscaped areas or greenbelts, sidewalks, or curbs.
   B.   Camping Prohibited In Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any
person to camp in any public place in the village of Oak Lawn during the hours
of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any day, unless
otherwise specifically authorized under this code. Camping includes the use of
camp facilities.
Law enforcement officers shall not enforce this section when the individual is
on public property and there is no available overnight shelter in the village
of Oak Lawn and within ten (10) miles of village boundaries. The term
"available overnight shelter" is a public or private shelter, with an available
overnight space, open to an individual or family unit experiencing
homelessness. If the individual cannot utilize the overnight shelter space due
to voluntary actions such as intoxication, drug use, unruly behavior, or
violation of shelter rules, the overnight shelter space shall still be
considered available.
   C.   Personal Property: In the event a person is arrested under this
section, the arresting officer shall use best efforts to identify and preserve
the personal property of the person.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
punishable by fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or a term of
imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days or both a fine and term of
imprisonment. (Ord. 16-15-53)
ARTICLE B. DRIVEWAYS
SECTION:
9-1B-1: Permit Required, Fee
9-1B-2: Application for Permit
9-1B-3: Bond or Insurance Required
9-1B-4: Sidewalk Approaches, Requirements
9-1B-1: PERMIT REQUIRED, FEE:
No person, firm or corporation shall construct or replace a driveway, or a
twelve inch (12") culvert across or under any sidewalk in the Village, for
commercial use, or the habitual use of any other than the owner or occupant of
the premises served, without having obtained a permit therefor from the
Director of Office of Quality Control. All such construction shall be in
accordance with Sections
6-1G-1 through
6-1G-3 of this Code. The fee for all permits required by this Article shall be
ten dollars ($10.00). (1951 Code
6-2-1,
6-2-2; Ord. 81-12-19; 1985 Code; Ord. 94-10-44)
9-1B-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Applications for permits required by this Article shall be made to the Director
of Office of Quality Control and shall be accompanied by the fee required.
(1951 Code
6-2-1; Ord. 81-12-19)
9-1B-3: BOND OR INSURANCE REQUIRED:
No permit for the construction of a commercial driveway, or driveway for the
habitual use of the public or any other than the owner or occupant of the
premises served, across any public sidewalk shall be issued, and no such
driveway shall be maintained, unless there is first filed with the Village
Clerk a bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($1 0,000.00) with sureties to
be approved by the Village Board, conditioned to indemnify the Village for any
loss, damage, or liability suffered or incurred by reason of the existence,
construction or use of such driveway 1 . Provided, however, that an equivalent
insurance policy may be substituted for the bond required by this Section.
(1951 Code
6-2-6)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-11-8 of this Code for requirements for sureties generally.
9-1B-4: SIDEWALK APPROACHES, REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Construction Requirements: It shall be the duty of the owner or
occupant of any premises or lot to construct good and sufficient approaches to
the sidewalk where the same is necessarily crossed in gaining access to such
premises or lot. All such construction shall be in accordance with Sections
6-1G-1 through
6-1G-3 of this Code.
   B.   Grade and Surface: No driveway, whether maintained for commercial or
private use, shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step, sharp
depression or other obstruction, in the sidewalk. The grade shall be as near as
possible to that of the adjoining sidewalk. It shall be unlawful to have the
surface finish of any driveway where the same crosses the sidewalk constructed
of such materials as to render it slippery and hazardous for pedestrians, or to
have the grade of the sidewalk other than level.
   C.   Materials: Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications contained in Sections
6-1G-1 through
6-1G-3 of this Code.
   D.   Duty to Maintain: It shall be the duty of every person maintaining a
driveway to keep the same in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk, and
free from obstruction and openings. (1951 Code
6-2-3,
6-2-4,
6-2-5, 17-3-5; Ord. 94-10-44)
ARTICLE C. EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
9-1C-1: Permit Required, Fee
9-1C-2: Application for Permit
9-1C-3: Bond or Insurance Required
9-1C-4: Exemption from Provisions
9-1C-5: Supervision, Backfilling, Restoration of Surface Required
9-1C-1: PERMIT REQUIRED, FEE:
All persons who for any reason shall excavate, tunnel under or open a public
street within the corporate limits of the Village, including the parkway and
sidewalk, shall first obtain a permit therefor from the Village. The fee for
permits required by this Article shall be twenty dollars ($20.00), which shall
accompany the application for the permit. (1951 Code 6-1-28, 6-5-3; Ord. 8;
1985 Code)
9-1C-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Applications for permits to excavate, tunnel under or open a public street, or
the parkway or sidewalk, shall be made to the Village Clerk, with duplicates of
such applications being on file with the Department of Public Works. Said
applications shall specify the intended location and purpose of the excavation,
tunneling or opening. (1951 Code 6-1-28, 6-5-2; Ord. 8; 1985 Code)
9-1C-3: BOND OR INSURANCE REQUIRED:
All persons who for any reason shall excavate, tunnel under or open a public
street within the corporate limits of the Village, including the parkway and
sidewalk, shall obtain a street opening bond or insurance which shall be
executed to or insure to the benefit of the Village in a cash amount of three
hundred dollars ($300.00). It shall be deposited with the Department of Quality
Control, Building Department 1 . (1951 Code 6-5-5, 6-5-6; Ord. 7; 1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  6-1A-4 of this Code.
9-1C-4: EXEMPTION FROM PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this Article relating to permits and bonds or insurance are
not applicable to public utility companies operating under a franchise
ordinance if the said public utilities have filed with the Village Clerk a
surety bond or insurance policy to protect the Village against damages due to
excavations, tunneling or openings in the street made by the public utilities.
(1951 Code 6-5-8)
9-1C-5: SUPERVISION, BACKFILLING, RESTORATION OF SURFACE REQUIRED:
All such excavations, tunneling, openings, refills and resurfacing shall be
made subject to the supervision of the Public Works Department. Any person
making an excavation or opening shall refill the same property and shall
restore the surface to its condition before the excavation was made, as soon as
possible. (1951 Code 6-1-26; 1985 Code)
ARTICLE D. STREET AND ALLEY VACATIONS
SECTION:
9-1D-1: Determination, Vote, Terms
9-1D-2: Title Upon Vacation
9-1D-3: Application For Vacation
9-1D-4: Hearing/Appraisal
9-1D-5: Building Permit Freeze
9-1D-6: Village Initiated Vacations
9-1D-1: DETERMINATION, VOTE, TERMS:
Whenever the board of trustees determines that the public interest will be best
served by vacating any street or alley, or part thereof, it may vacate the
street or alley, or part thereof by ordinance. Such ordinance shall be passed
by the affirmative vote of at least five (5) of the trustees then holding
office. The vote shall be taken by ayes and nays and entered on the records of
the board.
The ordinance may provide that it shall not become effective until the owners
of property abutting upon the street or alley, or part thereof so vacated,
shall pay compensation in an amount which, in the judgment of the board of
trustees, shall be equal to the benefits which will accrue to them by reason of
such vacation, and if there are any public service facilities in such street or
alley, or part thereof, the ordinance may also reserve to the village or to the
public utility, as the case may be, owning such facilities, such property,
rights of way and easements as, in the judgment of the board of trustees, are
necessary or desirable for continuing public service by means of those
facilities and for the maintenance, renewal and reconstruction thereof. (Ord.
81-1-3)
9-1D-2: TITLE UPON VACATION:
Except in cases where the deed, or other instrument, dedicating a street or
alley, or part thereof, has expressly provided for a specific devolution of
title thereto upon the abandonment or vacation thereof, whenever any street or
alley, or any part thereof, is vacated under or by virtue of any ordinance of
the village, the title to the land included within the street or alley, or part
thereof, so vacated, vests in the then owners of the land abutting thereon, in
the same proportions and to the same extent, as though the street or alley has
been dedicated by a common law plat (as distinguished from a statutory plat)
and as though the fee of the street or alley had been acquired by the owners as
a part of the land abutting on the street or alley. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if the vacation ordinance provides that only the owner or owners of
one particular parcel of abutting property shall make the payment for the
street or alley, or portion thereof, to be vacated, as provided for in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-91-1, then the owner or owners of the
particular parcel shall acquire title to the entire vacated street or alley, or
the portion thereof vacated. (Ords. 81-1-3, 02-18-70)
9-1D-3: APPLICATION FOR VACATION:
An owner of property abutting upon any street or alley, or part thereof, who
wishes to apply for the vacation of any street or alley, or part thereof, shall
file the following with the department of quality control:
   A.   A petition, in a form approved by said department, signed by fifty
percent (50%) or more of the owners abutting upon the street or alley, or part
thereof, to be vacated. For the purposes of this article, the determination, as
to whether a majority of the abutting property owners have signed the
aforementioned petition, shall be made at the time of the filing of said
petition with the department of quality control.
Provided, however, that even if a petition to vacate is signed by fifty percent
(50%) or more of the owners abutting upon the street or alley, or part thereof,
to be vacated, the board of trustees will not vacate whenever any such vacation
will interfere with the physical ingress and egress to any property abutting
upon said street or alley, or part thereof.
   B.   A sketch of the street or alley, or part thereof, to be vacated, and
the abutting lots, prepared by the department of quality control. Prior to the
passage of any ordinance vacating a street or alley, the person or persons
filing for said street or alley vacation shall provide, to the department of
quality control, a plat (linen and 15 blue line copies) of vacation prepared by
a licensed land surveyor. The cost of said plat and copies to be borne by the
applicant.
   C.   A certified or cashier's check in the amount of five hundred fifty
dollars ($550.00) to be used by the village to bring down title by a
responsible title insurance company licensed by the state of Illinois on at
least one lot or parcel abutting on the street or alley, or part thereof, to be
vacated in order to determine the devolution of the title thereto upon any such
vacation, to cover the cost of the mailing required by section
9-1D-4 of this article, and to cover the petition fee as set forth in
subsection 2-1-9G of this code. In the event that the costs as set forth above
are less than five hundred fifty dollars ($550.00), the balance thereof shall
be returned to the person or persons filing such check. In the event that the
costs as set forth above are more than five hundred fifty dollars ($550.00),
any additional costs shall be paid by the person or persons filing such check
upon notification by the village of such additional costs.
The department of Community Development shall review the proposed vacation and
file the aforesaid documents together with its report, findings and
recommendations with the Zoning and Planning Commission. (Ords. 85-9-24, 89-13-
31, 92-11-45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
9-1D-4: HEARING/APPRAISAL:
Zoning and Planning Commission shall hold a hearing concerning all applications
for vacations of streets and alleys within forty five (45) days of receipt of
the aforesaid documents from the department of Community Development. Not less
than fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing, notice of its time, place and
subject matter shall be posted at the village hall and mailed by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to all owners abutting upon the street or
alley, or part thereof, to be vacated. At the hearing, all interested persons
will be heard concerning the proposed vacation. At least one owner signing the
petition shall appear at the hearing to answer questions. The recommendation of
the Zoning and Planning Commission shall be forwarded to the board of trustees
for its consideration and at least one owner signing the petition shall appear
before the board of trustees at said time to answer questions.
In the event that the board of trustees determines that an appraisal of the
street or alley, or part thereof, to be vacated, is necessary to assist the
board of trustees in determining the amount of compensation, if any, to be paid
to the village for said vacation pursuant to section
9-1D-1 of this article, the person(s) applying for the vacation shall provide
the board of trustees with an appraisal of the street or alley, or part
thereof, to be vacated, done by an MAI appraiser selected by the board of
trustees. Said appraiser shall appraise the street or alley, or part thereof,
not as a street or alley, but as the street or alley, or part thereof, will be
used and zoned should said street or alley, or part thereof, be vacated. The
cost of said appraisal shall be borne by the applicant. (Ords. 85-9-24, 92-11-
45, 93-9-24, 19-16-66)
9-1D-5: BUILDING PERMIT FREEZE:
Upon the filing of a petition for the consideration of the vacation of any
street or alley, or part thereof, and the other items required by section
9-1D-3 of this article, with the department of quality control, no building
permit for a garage or any other structure shall be considered for, or issued
to, any property owner abutting upon the street or alley, or part thereof,
which is the subject matter of said petition, until the board of trustees has
made a final decision in regard to said petition as per section
9-1D-4 of this article. (Ord. 85-9-24)
9-1D-6: VILLAGE INITIATED VACATIONS:
Where the street or alley vacation is initiated by the village, the provisions
of sections
9-1D-3 and
9-1D-4 of this article shall not be applicable to said street or alley
vacation. (Ord. 02-18-70)
ARTICLE E. CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
9-1E-1: Purpose And Scope
9-1E-2: Definitions
9-1E-3: Annual Registration Required
9-1E-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
9-1E-5: Action On Permit Applications
9-1E-6: Effect Of Permit
9-1E-7: Revised Permit Drawings
9-1E-8: Insurance
9-1E-9: Indemnification
9-1E-10: Security
9-1E-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
9-1E-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
9-1E-13: General Construction Standards
9-1E-14: Traffic Control
9-1E-15: Location Of Facilities
9-1E-16: Construction Methods And Materials
9-1E-17: Vegetation Control
9-1E-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
9-1E-19: Cleanup And Restoration
9-1E-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
9-1E-21: Variances
9-1E-22: Penalties
9-1E-23: Enforcement
9-1E-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights of way and the village as a whole.
   B.   Facilities Subject To This Article: This article applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public
rights of way within the jurisdiction of the village, except as may be
otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or similar agreement.
   C.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this article.
   D.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this article and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   E.   Conflicts With Other Articles: This article supersedes all policies,
resolutions, ordinances, or parts thereof adopted prior hereto that are in
conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   F.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
article, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this article to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   G.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this article and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this article when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this article.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area shall consist of
a shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The codified ordinances of the village of Oak Lawn.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The village director of public works or his or her
designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: Any work that obstructs the right of way or causes a
material adverse effect on the use of the right of way for its intended use.
Such work may include, without limitation, the following: excavating or other
cutting; placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment,
devices, or structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of
the soil, and shall not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a
manner that does not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including track and
rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, communications and video cables and
wires, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances
thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights
of way under this article, except those owned by the village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A ground mounted facility that is not a crossing
facility, an overhead facility or a parallel facility, such as an antenna,
transformer, pump, equipment enclosure, equipment cabinet, meter station or
similar ground mounted appurtenance.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A roadway providing access to land adjacent to the highway where
it is precluded by control of access on highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity, form,
concentration, location, or other characteristic, is determined by the director
of public works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health
or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A right of way used for vehicular traffic, including rural or urban
roads or streets, whether classified as arterial, collector, minor or local.
Highway includes all highway land and improvements, including roadways, ditches
and embankments, bridges, drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective
structures and appurtenances necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more arterial highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
OVERHEAD FACILITY: A facility that is mounted on a pole.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
9-1E-4 and
9-1E-5 of this article.
PERSON OR ENTITY: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited
liability company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative
appointed by order of court.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility to its original condition.
RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or commonly
used for utility purposes, including utility easements in which the village has
the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of
facilities other than those of the village. Right of way shall not include any
real or personal village property that is not specifically described in the
previous two (2) sentences and shall not include village buildings, fixtures,
and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated
in the right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
9-1E-10 of this article.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two- way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include the provision of cable services through a cable system as
defined in the cable communications act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and
following), as now or hereafter amended, or cable or other programming services
subject to an open video system fee payable to the village through an open
video system as defined in the rules of the federal communications commission
(47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person who installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right of way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Any person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: Any person or entity owning or operating any "facility", as defined in
this article.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The village of Oak Lawn.
VILLAGE STANDARDS: Any codes, ordinances or regulations of the village which
are applicable to construction of utility facilities in village rights of way.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the director of public works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of
way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person and
evidence of insurance as required in section
9-1E-8 of this article, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 07-25-
82)
9-1E-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this article)
any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any village
right of way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new
facility, 3) disrupts the "right of way" (as defined in this article), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, under, across or within the right of way, without first
filing an application with the director of public works and obtaining a permit
from the village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this article. No
permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the
right of way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
article shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as proprietary or
confidential by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers,
along with the names, addresses, and telephone and telecopy number for all
subcontractors working for the utility;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A description and estimated cost of the proposed work and the
purposes and intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be
put. The scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the
nature and character of the work to be performed, as determined by the director
of public works, with special emphasis on those matters likely to be affected
or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the latest edition
of the "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury
or damage to persons or property and to minimize disruptions to efficient
pedestrian and vehicular traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of a professional engineer, licensed in the state
of Illinois, that such drawings, plans, and specifications comply with
applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
9-1E-8 of this article;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in section
9-1E-10 of this article;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
article (see section
9-1E-21 of this article); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control and the metropolitan water reclamation
district of greater Chicago and other local or state entities with
jurisdiction, have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this article shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00). No
application fee is required to be paid by any telecommunications retailer that
is paying to the village the simplified municipal telecommunications tax or the
optional state telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to
the telecommunications municipal infrastructure maintenance fee act, or by any
electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure
maintenance fee pursuant to the electricity infrastructure maintenance fee act.
(Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the director of
public works within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the director of public works shall reject such application in
writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the director of public works is
satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this article
and all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the
director of public works shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the director of public works, that the construction proposed
under the application shall be in full compliance with the requirements of this
article.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village
that it intends to commence work governed by this article for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The director of
public works shall specify the portion of the right of way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed, and subject to the variance
procedure if applicable.
      2.   Except in cases where a variance is required, in the event that the
director of public works fails to provide such specification of location to the
telecommunications retailer within either: a) ten (10) days after service of
notice to the village by the telecommunications retailer in the case of work
not involving excavation for new construction or b) twenty five (25) days after
service of notice by the telecommunications retailer in the case of work
involving excavation for new construction, the telecommunications retailer may
commence work without obtaining a permit under this article.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to section
9-1E-4 of this article, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village,
provided the holder has complied with applicable village codes, ordinances and
regulations. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted, No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this article on village rights of way and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the public rights of way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this article shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this article prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the village, with such village
representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including,
without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights of way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any material
respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and specifications
submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall submit a revised set
of drawings or plans to the village within ninety (90) days after the
completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this article, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with section
9-1E-21 of this article. If the village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional noncontributory insureds on the policies
listed in subsections A1 and A2 of this section. The utility's insurance shall
be primary, and any village policies of insurance shall be deemed secondary.
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products- completed operations coverage
with limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for environmental liability;
      3.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      4.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      5.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village Manager of such intent to cancel or not
to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act. Self-insurance shall be
primary, and any village policies of insurance shall be deemed secondary.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this article or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the sole negligence, misconduct or breach of
this article by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this article;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
article; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this article including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this article to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this article or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) of the reasonably estimated cost to restore the
right of way to at least as good a condition as that existing prior to the
construction under the permit, as determined by the director of public works,
and may also include reasonable, directly related costs that the village
estimates are likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such
restoration. Where the construction of facilities proposed under the permit
will be performed in phases in multiple locations in the village, with each
phase consisting of construction of facilities in one location or a related
group of locations, and where construction in another phase will not be
undertaken prior to substantial completion of restoration in the previous phase
or phases, the director of public works may, in the exercise of sound
discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount of security which shall
be applicable to each phase of the construction under the permit. The amount of
the security fund for phased construction shall be equal to the greatest amount
that would have been required under the provisions of this subsection for any
single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals From Cash Security Funds: The village, upon fourteen (14)
days' advance written notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention
to exercise withdrawal rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount
from the security fund if the fund is a cash security fund, provided that the
permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the fourteen
(14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee;
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this article that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund;
or
      5.   Fails to fully restore the right of way disturbed during
construction of the facilities within a reasonable period of time.
   E.   Replenishment Of Cash Security Funds: Within fourteen (14) days after
receipt of written notice from the village that any amount has been withdrawn
from the cash security fund, the permittee shall restore the cash security fund
to the amount specified in subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest On Cash Security Funds: The permittee may request that any and
all interest accrued on the amount in the cash security fund be returned to the
permittee by the village, upon written request for said withdrawal to the
village, provided that any such withdrawal does not reduce the cash security
fund below the minimum balance required in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Cash Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the cash security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
article or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the cash security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become
the property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable
costs, loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation,
provided that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be
refunded to the permittee.
   H.   Other Security Funds: Withdrawals, replenishment, renewal and closing
of letter of credit or surety bond security funds shall be governed by the
terms of the letter of credit or surety bond.
   I.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this article or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this article for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this article;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: Except in the event of an
emergency, the village shall send written notice of its intent to revoke or
suspend a permit issued pursuant to this article stating the reason or reasons
for the revocation or suspension and the alternatives available to permittee
under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the public rights of way and restore the rights
of way to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such
removal to the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice
of revocation.
The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a verbal or written stop work order
immediately upon discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth
within subsection A of this section or in the event of an emergency.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the village or a
contractor designated by the village may, at the option of the village: 1)
correct the deficiencies; 2) upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the
permittee, remove the subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less
than thirty (30) days' notice to the permittee of failure to cure the
noncompliance, deem them abandoned and property of the village. The permittee
shall be liable in all events to the village for all costs of correction,
removal or abandonment. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, including this article, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right
of way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as now existing or hereafter
amended:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Village Standards: In addition, all applicable village standards, as
defined in this title, shall also apply to construction in the rights of way.
   C.   Interpretation Of Village Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
article, the director of public works shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the director of public works shall state which standard or
principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a
facility in the future. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in the latest edition of IDOT's "Illinois Manual On
Uniform Traffic Control Devices" and this code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the public rights of way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
9-1E-20 of this article, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection:
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the director of public works determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
village's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the village's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line, and any
aboveground appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Culverts Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities shall not be
located in culverts or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: If a variance has been
granted, an overhead power or communication facility may cross a highway only
if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR 192.707 (1989)).
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways. Facilities crossing alley
rights of way must be installed overhead, unless the director of public works
determines otherwise, in accordance with subsection 9-1E-13C of this article
(this applies primarily to utility service lines that cross alleys).
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   Immediately upon filing a permit application which includes a
freestanding facility, the utility shall meet with the director of public works
and schedule an on site review. In accordance with the standards and purposes
of this article, the village may restrict the location and size of any
freestanding facility located within a right of way, as appropriate to mitigate
the impact upon the right of way and adjoining property.
      2.   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   F.   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities, including
freestanding facilities, may be installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location and will employ
suitable design and materials to provide the greatest protection of aesthetic
qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting safety.
Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting armless,
single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and cable.
Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever practicable;
the installation of additional utility poles is strongly discouraged.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the highway user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the director
of public works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall
be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or
jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly
marked and protected by flashing barricades and security fencing. Shoring shall
be designed, erected, supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely
support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the
boring or jacking operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved shall be bored under or
around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction" or with village standards, whichever standards are more
restrictive.
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the director of public works.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction" or with village standards, whichever standards
are more restrictive. When excavated material is hauled away or is unsuitable
for backfill, suitable granular backfill as determined by the director of
public works shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the director of public works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
director of public works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitations set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
9-1E-21 of this article, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by
the director of public works.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines                           30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service    18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                    determined by village)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code 305 (formerly
general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled "rules for
construction of electric power and communication lines", and the national
electrical safety code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: If overhead facilities have been permitted
or are required by the village under section
9-1E-15 of this article, the overhead power or communication facilities shall
use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles shall
be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 -
transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards (49 CFR 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois" and village standards.
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way by
variance, shall be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1')
(305 mm) in width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation
free area may be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty
plastic or similar material approved by the director of public works. With the
approval of the director of public works, shrubbery surrounding the
appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation free area. The housing for
ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the
surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" and village standards, the
requirements of the Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established
by other official regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: All pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right of way
prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public
or an obstacle to right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and
other property. If material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval
must be obtained from the village. No materials may be stored in the FEMA
designated floodway.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the director of public works
when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of construction
shall be between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. (see
section
10-5-16 of this code).
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . Where the
location of an existing underground facility is critical to the construction of
new or replacement village infrastructure, the utility may be required to
physically relocate its facilities. (Ord. 07-25-82)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
9-1E-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations and, additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this article.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision of a certified arborist who shall be experienced in
accepted tree pruning practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an
expiration date in the interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously
accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following subsection, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the director of public works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
village, a utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently
remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility facilities within
the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities have determined that such
removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably necessary for the
construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any village improvement
in or upon, or the operations of the village in or upon, the rights of way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the public rights of
way shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the public rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and
subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this article; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the village shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village
within ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the village may
direct the utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the director
of public works determines that such removal will be in the best interest of
the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not
direct the utility that the abandoned facility be removed, the abandoning
utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of all or any
portion of the facility by another utility or person at the village's sole
discretion. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
Upon completion of all construction or maintenance of facilities, the utility
shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain in a timely
manner and to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the director of public works. Such cleanup
and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right of way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project and as per village standards. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
director of public works or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-21: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this article must do so in writing to the director of
public works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this article from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The director of public works shall decide
whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this article identified
in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The director of public works may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the director of public works may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this article but which carry out the
purposes of this article.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the director
of public works under the provisions of this article shall have the right to
appeal to the board of trustees, or such other board or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
village clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order,
requirement, decision or determination. The board of trustees shall commence
its consideration of the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting
occurring at least seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The board of
trustees shall timely decide the appeal. (Ord. 07-25-82)
9-1E-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to a fine of not less
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed for each and every day during which a violation continues or exists.
There may be times when the village will incur delay or other costs, including
third party claims, because the utility will not or cannot perform its duties
under its permit and this article. Unless the utility shows that another
allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the
utility shall bear the village's costs of damages and its costs of installing,
maintaining, modifying, relocating, or removing the facility that is the
subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or commission may review
or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may
be imposed upon a utility who does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord.
07-25-82)
9-1E-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this article shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 07-25-82)
ARTICLE F. SMALL CELL ANTENNA/TOWER RIGHT-OF-WAY SITING
SECTION:
9-1F-1: Definitions
9-1F-2: Standards And Regulations
9-1F-3: Permits And Application Fees And Procedures
9-1F-4: Conflict Of Laws
9-1F-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms will have the following
meanings:
ALTERNATIVE ANTENNA STRUCTURE: An existing pole or other structure within the
public right-of-way that can be used to support an antenna and is not a utility
pole or a Village-owned infrastructure.
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio signals used in the provision of any type of wireless communications
services.
APPLICANT: Any person or entity submitting an application to install personal
wireless telecommunication facilities or structures to support the facilities
within a public right-of- way.
DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS): A type of personal wireless telecommunication
facility consisting of a network of spatially separated antenna nodes connected
to a common source via a transport medium that provides wireless service within
a geographic area. Generally serves multiple carriers.
LANDSCAPE SCREENING: The installation at grade of plantings, shrubbery, bushes
or other foliage intended to screen the base of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility from public view.
MONOPOLE: A structure composed of a single spire, pole or tower designed and
used to support antennas or related equipment and that is not a utility pole,
an alternative antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNA: An antenna that is part of a
personal wireless telecommunications facility.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT: Equipment, exclusive of an
antenna, that is part of a personal wireless telecommunications facility.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: An antenna, equipment, and
related improvements used, or designed to be used, to provide wireless
transmission of voice, data video streams, images, or other information
including, but not limited to, cellular phone service, personal communication
service, paging, and Wi-Fi antenna service.
SMALL CELL FACILITIES: A personal wireless telecommunications facility
consisting of an antenna and related equipment either installed singly or as
part of a network to provide coverage or enhance capacity to a limited defined
area. Generally single- service provider installation.
TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose
of supporting one (1) or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice
towers, guy towers, or monopole towers, and that is not a utility pole, an
alternative antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure. Except as
otherwise provided for by this article, the requirements for a tower and
associated antenna facilities shall be those required in this article.
UTILITY POLE: An upright pole designed and used to support electric cables,
telephone cables, telecommunication cables, cable service cables, which are
used to provide lighting, traffic control, signage, or a similar function.
VARIANCE OR VARIATION: A grant of relief by the Village Manager/Administrator
or his/her designee.
VILLAGE-OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE: Infrastructure in public right-of- way within the
boundaries of the Village, including, but not limited to, streetlights, traffic
signals, towers, structures, or buildings owned, operated or maintained by the
Village.
WI-FI ANTENNA: An antenna used to support Wi-Fi broadband internet access
service based on the IEEE 802.11 standard that typically uses unlicensed
spectrum to enable communication between devices. (Ord. 17-13-42)
9-1F-2: STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
Personal wireless telecommunication facilities will be permitted to be placed
in right-of-ways within the jurisdiction of the Village as attachments to
existing utility poles, alternative antenna structures, or Village-owned
infrastructure subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Number Limitation And Co-Location: The Village Manager or his/her
designee may regulate the number of personal wireless telecommunications
facilities allowed on each utility pole or unit of Village-owned
infrastructure. No more than two (2) personal wireless telecommunications
facilities will be permitted on utility poles or alternative antenna structures
of ninety feet (90') or less. No more than three (3) personal wireless
telecommunications facilities will be permitted on utility poles or alternative
antenna structures in excess of ninety feet (90') and less than one hundred
twenty feet (120'). This article does not preclude or prohibit co-location of
personal wireless telecommunication facilities on towers or monopoles that meet
the requirements as set forth elsewhere in this section or as required by
Federal law.
   B.   Separation And Clearance Requirements: Personal wireless
telecommunication facilities may be attached to a utility pole, alternative
antenna structure, monopole, or Village-owned infrastructure only where such
pole, structure or infrastructure is located no closer than a distance equal to
one hundred percent (100%) of the height of such facility to any residential
building and no closer than three hundred feet (300') from any other personal
wireless telecommunication facility. A separation or lesser clearance may be
allowed by the Village Manager/Administrator or his/her designee as an
administrative variance to this article when the applicant establishes that the
lesser separation or clearance is necessary to close a significant coverage or
capacity gap in the applicant's services or to otherwise provide adequate
services to customers, and the proposed antenna or facility is the least
intrusive means to do so within the right-of-way.
   C.   Village-Owned Infrastructure: Personal wireless telecommunication
facilities can only be mounted to Village-owned infrastructure including, but
not limited to, streetlights, traffic signal, towers or buildings, if
authorized by a license or other agreement between the owner and the Village.
   D.   New Towers: No new monopole or other towers to support personal
wireless telecommunication facilities in excess of sixty feet (60') is
permitted to be installed on right-of-ways within the jurisdiction of the
Village unless the Village Board of Trustees finds, based on clear and
convincing evidence provided by the applicant, that locating the personal
wireless telecommunications facilities on the right-of-way is necessary to
close a significant coverage or capacity in the applicant's services or to
otherwise provide adequate services to customers, and the proposed new monopole
or other tower within the right-of- way is the least intrusive means to do so.
   E.   Attachment Limitations: No personal wireless telecommunications antenna
or facility within the right-of-way will be attached to a utility pole,
alternative antenna structure, tower, or Village-owned infrastructure unless
all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      1.   Surface Area Of Antenna: The personal wireless telecommunication
antenna, including antenna panels, whip antennas or dish-shaped antennas,
cannot have a surface area of more than seven (7) cubic feet in volume.
      2.   Size Of Above-Ground Personal Wireless Telecommunication Facility:
The total combined volume of all above-ground equipment and appurtenances
comprising of a personal wireless telecommunication facility, exclusive of the
antenna itself, cannot exceed thirty two (32) cubic feet.
      3.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Equipment: The operator of a
personal wireless telecommunication facility must, whenever possible, locate
the base of the equipment or appurtenances at a height of no lower than eight
feet (8') above grade.
      4.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Services Equipment Mounted At
Grade: In the event that the operator of a personal wireless telecommunication
facility proposes to install a facility where equipment or appurtenances are to
be installed at grade, screening must be installed to minimize the visibility
of the facility. Screening must be installed at least three feet (3') from the
equipment installed at-grade and eight feet (8') from a roadway.
      5.   Height: The top of the highest point of the antenna cannot extend
more than seven feet (7') above the highest point of the utility pole,
alternative antenna support structure, tower or Village-owned infrastructure.
If necessary, the replacement or new utility pole, alternative support
structure or Village-owned infrastructure located within the public right-of-
way may be no more than ten feet (10') to seventy feet (70') higher than
existing poles adjacent to the replacement or new pole or structure, or no more
than ninety feet (90') in height overall, whichever is less.
      6.   Color: A personal wireless telecommunication facility, including all
related equipment and appurtenances, must be a color that blends with the
surroundings of the pole, structure, tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted and use non- reflective materials which blend with the materials and
colors of the surrounding area and structures. Any wiring must be covered with
an appropriate cover.
      7.   Antenna Panel Covering: A personal wireless telecommunication
antenna may include a radome, cap or other antenna panel covering or shield, to
the extent such covering would not result in a larger or more noticeable
facility and, if proposed, such covering must be of a color that blends with
the color of the pole, structure, tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted.
      8.   Wiring And Cabling: Wires and cables connecting the antenna to the
remainder of the facility must be installed in accordance with the Electrical
Code currently in effect. No wiring and cabling serving the facility will be
allowed to interfere with any wiring or cabling installed by a cable television
or video service operator, electric utility or telephone utility.
      9.   Grounding: The personal wireless telecommunication facility must be
grounded in accordance with the requirements of the Electrical Code currently
in effect in the Village.
      10.   Guy Wires: No guy or other support wires will be used in connection
with a personal wireless telecommunication facility unless the facility is to
be attached to an existing utility pole, alternative antenna support structure,
tower or Village- owned infrastructure that incorporated guy wires prior to the
date that an applicant has applied for a permit.
      11.   Pole Extensions: Extensions to utility poles, alternative support
structures, towers and Village-owned infrastructure utilized for the purpose of
connecting a personal wireless telecommunications antenna and its related
personal wireless telecommunications equipment must have a degree of strength
capable of supporting the antenna and any related appurtenances and cabling and
capable of withstanding wind forces and ice loads in accordance with the
applicable structural integrity standards as set forth in subsection E12 of
this section. An extension must be securely bound to the utility pole,
alternative antenna structure, tower or Village-owned infrastructure in
accordance with applicable engineering standards for the design and attachment
of such extensions.
      12.   Structural Integrity: The personal wireless telecommunication
facility, including the antenna, pole extension and all related equipment must
be designed to withstand wind force and ice loads in accordance with applicable
standards established in chapter 25 of the National Electric Safety Code for
utility poles, Rule 250-B and 250-C standards governing wind, ice, and loading
forces on utility poles, in the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) in
TIA/EIA section 222-G established by the Telecommunications Industry
Association (TIA) and the Electronics Industry Association (EIA) for steel
wireless support structures and the applicable industry standard for other
existing structures. For any facility attached to Village-owned infrastructure
or, in the discretion of the Village, for a utility pole, tower, or alternative
antenna structure, the operator of the facility must provide the Village with a
structural evaluation of each specific location containing a recommendation
that the proposed installation passes the standards described above. The
evaluation must be prepared by a professional structural engineer licensed in
the State of Illinois.
   F.   Signage: Other than signs required by Federal law or regulations or
identification and location markings, installation of signs on a personal
wireless telecommunication facility is prohibited.
   G.   Screening: If screening is required under subsection E4 of this
section, it must be natural landscaping material or a fence subject to the
approval of the Village and must comply with all regulations of the Village.
Appropriate landscaping must be located and maintained and must provide the
maximum achievable screening, as determined by the Village, from view of
adjoining properties and public or private streets. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such screening is required to extend more than nine feet (9') in
height. Landscape screening when permitted in the right-of-way, must be
provided with a clearance of three feet (3') in all directions from the
facility. The color of housing for ground-mounted equipment must blend with the
surroundings. For a covered structure, the maximum reasonably achievable
screening must be provided between such facility and the view from adjoining
properties and public or private streets. In lieu of the operator installing
the screening, the Village, at its sole discretion, may accept a fee from the
operator of the facility for the acquisition, installation, or maintenance of
landscaping material by the Village.
   H.   Permission To Use Utility Pole Or Alternative Antenna Structure: The
operator of a personal wireless telecommunication facility must submit to the
Village written copies of the approval from the owner of a utility pole,
monopole, or an alternative antenna structure, to mount the personal wireless
telecommunication facility on that specific pole, tower, or structure, prior to
issuance of the Village permit.
   I.   Licenses And Permits: The operator of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility must verify to the Village that it has received all
concurrent licenses and permits required by other agencies and governments with
jurisdiction over the design, construction, location and operation of said
facility have been obtained and will be maintained within the corporate limits
of the Village.
   J.   Variance Requirements: Each location of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility within a right-of-way must meet all of the
requirements of this article, unless a variance has been obtained in accordance
with section
9-1E-21 of this chapter.
   K.   Abandonment And Removal: Any personal wireless telecommunication
facility located within the corporate limits of the Village that is not
operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, shall be considered
abandoned and the owner of the facility must remove same within ninety (90)
days of receipt of written notice from the Village notifying the owner of such
abandonment. Such notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return-
receipt-requested, by the Village to such owner at the last known address of
such owner. In the case of personal wireless telecommunication facilities
attached to Village owned infrastructure, if such facility is not removed
within ninety (90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the
removal of such facility through the terms of the applicable license agreement
or through whatever actions are provided by law for removal and cost recovery.
(Ord. 17-13-42)
9-1F-3: PERMITS AND APPLICATION FEES AND PROCEDURES:
Permits for placement of personal wireless telecommunication facilities in
right-of-ways within the Village are required. Except as otherwise provided for
in this article, the procedures for the application for, approval of, and
revocation of such a permit must be in compliance with Village permit
application requirements in article E of this chapter. Any applications must
demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this section. Unless otherwise
provided by franchise, license, or similar agreement, or Federal, State or
local law, all applications for permits pursuant to this section must be
accompanied by a fee in the amount of no less than one hundred dollars
($100.00.) The application fee will reimburse the Village for regulatory and
administrative costs with respect to the work being performed. (Ord. 17-13-42)
9-1F-4: CONFLICT OF LAWS:
Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter regarding the
siting and installation of personal wireless telecommunication facilities are
more restrictive than comparable conditions imposed elsewhere in any other
local law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation, the regulations of this
article will govern. (Ord. 17-13-42)
CHAPTER 2
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Prohibited Trees
9-2-2: Sight Restrictions
9-2-3: Removal And Trimming Of Trees
9-2-4: Protection During Excavations
9-2-5: Duty To Keep Wires, Poles Free Of Trees
9-2-6: Gas Leaks Prohibited
9-2-7: Restrictions, Prohibitions
9-2-8: Replacement Of Parkway Trees
9-2-9: Tree Trimming Standards
9-2-1: PROHIBITED TREES:
   A.   No person shall plant or cause to be planted in the village any of the
following trees:
      1.   Box elder (Acer negundo);
      2.   Tree of heaven (Ailanthus);
      3.   Any species of hawthorn containing thorns;
      4.   Soft (silver) maple (Acer saccharinum);
      5.   Any variety of poplar (Populus);
      6.   Any variety of willow (Salix); or
      7.   Elm (not disease resistant).
   B.   From and after March 1, 2008, no person shall plant or cause to be
planted in the village any of the following trees:
      1.   Any species of ash (Fraxinus), excepting, however, the Mountain ash;
      2.   Any species of mulberry (Morus); or
      3.   "Bradford" pear (Pyrus calleryana "Bradford" only). (Ord. 08-03-12)
9-2-2: SIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Definition: A "sight restriction" shall be a fence or any growing plant
or tree which obstructs the view above the maximum heights set out in the
following subsection.
   B.   Height Limitations:
      1.   Within the restricted area no growing plant other than a tree shall
be allowed to exceed a maximum height of thirty inches (30").
      2.   When allowed by variation, no fence shall exceed forty two inches
(42") in height and no material shall be attached to or made a part of such
fence so as to provide any restriction to the clear view of those persons using
the abutting right of way.
      3.   Trees standing on any lot, street, alley or parkway and any trees
overhanging any sidewalk, street, alley or parkway shall be trimmed so that the
space from the ground surface to the lower branches of such trees shall not be
less than ten feet (10') over any sidewalk, twelve feet (12') over any marginal
access or minor street and sixteen feet (16') over any secondary or major
street.
   C.   Area Involved: A sight restriction shall not occur within a triangular
piece of property determined by drawing a diagonal between two (2) points
located on two (2) intersecting right of way lines, each point located fifteen
feet (15') each way from the intersection of said right of way lines, and then
extending said diagonal to its intersections with the curb lines, and/or edges
of the roadways, associated with the aforementioned right of way lines. In
addition, a sight restriction shall not occur on any property within the
greater of the following two (2) distances from the edge of the pavement, where
no curb exists, or the back of the curb of any street:
      1.   Fifteen feet (15'); or
      2.   The distance between the property line and the back of the curb or,
where no curb exists, the edge of the pavement.
Additionally, a sight restriction as a result of a tree, as referenced in
subsection B3 of this section, shall not occur at any location within the
village at which a street or sidewalk exists.
   D.   Elimination Of Sight Restrictions Required, Penalty:
      1.   The owner or occupant of every lot or parcel of land adjoining a
street, alley, intersection, or public or private driveway, upon which any tree
(s), shrub(s), bush(es), weeds or plants are growing in the public right of way
of the village shall have such vegetation trimmed, pruned, or cut so as not to
obstruct the passage of light from any streetlight or traffic control device so
that such vegetation shall not interfere with, nor obstruct the vision of
persons using alleys, streets, or highways. The existence of any such
vegetation on the owner's or occupant's premises or in the parkway adjoining a
street, alley, intersection, or public or private driveway which shall violate
the visual requirements described above is hereby declared to constitute a
public nuisance.
      2.   Any owner or occupant of such premises who shall fail to abate the
same by removing, trimming, cutting or pruning tree(s), shrub(s), bush(es),
weeds or plants within ten (10) days after being notified in writing to do so
by the director of the office of quality control shall be subject to a fine of
not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense. Each day that the offense is allowed to continue shall be
considered a separate offense.
   E.   Abatement By Village:
      1.   Removal, Payment: If the owner or occupant persists in allowing the
conditions to exist, the village shall enter into the property and remove the
obstructions and payment for such actions shall be made from the fines
collected or by a lien being placed against the property.
      2.   Notice, Removal Of Violations: The director of the office of quality
control shall give the owner of the premises where the sight restriction or
otherwise exists, as described in this chapter a written notice of the
existence of the same, and shall, after ten (10) days following the service of
such notice, cause the abatement of the same.
      3.   Service Of Notice: Service of notice required by this chapter shall
be by personal service where the owner of said premises is a resident of the
village. Where the owner is a nonresident of the village, said notice shall be
served by registered mail, addressed to said owner at his last known address.
      4.   Cost Of Removal By Village: If the owner or occupant persists in
allowing the conditions to exist, the Village shall enter into the property and
remove the obstructions, and payment for such action shall be made from the
fines collected by a lien being placed against the property. (1951 Code 6-4-2;
Ords. 72-14-24, 74-27-51, 76-25-48, 81-12-19, 85-13-41; 1985 Code; Ord. 95-22-
96)
9-2-3: REMOVAL AND TRIMMING OF TREES:
In general, the removal and trimming of trees within the Village shall be in
accordance with the following:
   A.   On Village-Owned Property Or Right Of Way: Where a tree is located on
property owned by the Village or in the dedicated public right of way, the
removal and trimming of said tree shall be in accordance with the rules and
regulations formulated by the Department of Public Works, including, but not
limited to, the parkway tree replacement program provided for pursuant to the
Village's franchise agreement with Commonwealth Edison Company.
   B.   On Private Property, Generally: Unless the tree located on private
property is causing a dangerous or unsafe condition to exist on Village-owned
property, in the public right of way or in a dedicated Village easement as a
result of the location or condition of the roots or limbs of said tree, any
removal or trimming of any such tree shall be the sole responsibility of the
owner or occupant of the private property on which the tree is located.
   C.   On Private Property, Sight Restriction: Where a tree located on private
property constitutes a "sight restriction" as defined in subsection
9-2-2A of this Chapter, the removal and/or trimming of said tree shall be in
accordance with the provisions of Section
9-2-2 of this Chapter.
   D.   On Private Property, Dangerous Or Unsafe Condition Other Than A Sight
Restriction: Where a tree located on private property causes a dangerous or
unsafe condition to exist on Village-owned property, in the public right of way
or in a dedicated Village easement, other than a "sight restriction" as defined
by subsection
9-2-2A of this Chapter, the owner of the private property on which the tree is
located shall be responsible for removing or trimming said tree so as to abate
said dangerous or unsafe condition. In regard to said dangerous or unsafe
condition, notice and abatement shall be in accordance with the following:
      1.   Notice: The Department of Public Works shall give to the owner of
the premises on which the tree is located, a written notice of the existence of
the dangerous and/or unsafe condition caused by said tree. Service of the
notice required by this Section shall be by personal service or by registered
mail, to the person who is listed as the taxpayer of record for said property.
Said notice shall include the following:
         a.   The common address for the property in question;
         b.   The permanent tax index number for the property in question;
         c.   A brief description of the dangerous or unsafe condition;
         d.   An identification of the specific tree or trees causing the
dangerous or unsafe condition; and
         e.   A statement indicating that if the identified dangerous or unsafe
condition is not remedied within ten (10) days of the date of the notice, the
Village will enter upon the property, if necessary, abate the dangerous or
unsafe condition and bill the property owner and/or lien the property for the
reasonable cost of said abatement.
      2.   Abatement; Lien: If, after the giving of notice as required by
subsection D1 of this Section, the property owner refuses or neglects to remedy
the dangerous or unsafe condition, the Department of Public Works may enter
upon the property in question, if necessary, and abate the dangerous or unsafe
condition by removing and/or trimming said tree(s). The reasonable cost for
said removal and/or trimming shall be billed to the property owner.
If said property owner refuses or neglects to pay said bill, a lien in the
amount of said costs shall be recorded/registered with the Cook County Recorder
of Deeds/Registrar of Titles. Said lien shall be recorded/registered within
sixty (60) days after such costs are incurred by the Village, and shall consist
of a sworn statement setting forth the following:
         a.   The legal description of the property;
         b.   The permanent tax index number of the property;
         c.   The common address of the property;
         d.   The cost incurred by the Village in removing and/or trimming the
tree(s); and
         e.   The date(s) on which the tree removal and/or trimming work was
performed.
Upon the recording/registering of said lien, a copy thereof shall be forwarded
by first class U.S. mail to the taxpayer of record for said property.
      3.   Emergency Removal And/Or Trimming: In cases where it reasonably
appears that the condition of the tree poses an imminent hazard, and there is
immediate danger to the life or safety of any person unless the tree in
question is immediately trimmed and/or removed, the Director of Public Works,
or his/her duly authorized designee, shall cause the immediate trimming and/or
removal of such dangerous tree. The costs of such emergency trimming and/or
removal shall be collected in the same manner as provided in subsection D2 of
this Section.
      4.   Lien Satisfaction: Upon receipt of payment consisting of the amount
of the lien, the Village's actual cost for recording the lien and a fifty
dollar ($50.00) fee for the Village's administrative costs in preparing the
lien and the release, the Village shall issue a release of lien to the person
making said payment.
   E.   Definition: For purposes of this section, "private property" shall be
defined to include all property within the village which is neither owned by
the village nor is dedicated right of way.
   F.   Time Restrictions: To prevent the spread of certain diseases which
impact specific types of trees, the following time restrictions shall apply to
the removal and trimming of trees, except in the case of an emergency situation
which requires the immediate removal or trimming of a tree to protect the
health, safety and welfare of a resident(s) of the village:
      1.   To prevent the spread of oak wilt, it shall be unlawful, except in
an emergency situation as defined above, for any person, firm or corporation to
remove or trim any species of red oak within the village from April 1 through
July 31 of each year, unless the pruning wounds are immediately treated with a
wound dressing.
      2.   To prevent the spread of Dutch elm disease, it shall be unlawful,
except in an emergency situation as defined above, for any person, firm or
corporation to remove or trim any species of elm within the village from March
1 through October 31 of each year. (Ords. 95-22-96, 02-19-81)
9-2-4: PROTECTION DURING EXCAVATIONS:
In making excavations in streets or other public places, proper care shall be
taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub, wherever possible.
(1951 Code 6-4-8)
9-2-5: DUTY TO KEEP WIRES, POLES FREE OF TREES:
Any person who maintains poles and wires in the streets, alleys or other public
places, shall, in the absence of a provision in the franchise concerning the
subject, keep such wires and poles from and away from any trees and shrubs in
such places so far as may be possible, and shall keep all such trees and shrubs
near such wires and poles properly trimmed, subject to the supervision of the
public works department, so that no injury shall be done either to the poles or
wires or to the shrubs and trees by their contact. (1951 Code 6-4-6; 1985 Code)
9-2-6: GAS LEAKS PROHIBITED:
Any person maintaining any gas pipe in the village shall keep such pipes free
from leaks so that no injury shall be done thereby to any trees or shrubs.
(1951 Code 6-4-7)
9-2-7: RESTRICTIONS, PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Damaging Prohibited: Injure any trees or shrubs planted or growing in
any public place, except by permission of the director of public works.
   B.   Posting Signs, Notices: Attach any signs, advertisements or notices to
any tree or shrub in any public place.
   C.   Attaching Wires, Ropes Prohibited: Attach any wire or rope to any tree
or shrub in any public street, parkway or other public place without the
permission of the department of public works. (1951 Code 6-4-3, 6-4-4, 6-4-6;
1985 Code)
9-2-8: REPLACEMENT OF PARKWAY TREES:
Where a parkway tree is cut down, the village forester shall make a
determination, based on the proximity of other trees and sound forestry
principles, as to whether a replacement tree would be appropriate. Where the
village forester determines that a replacement tree is not appropriate, none
shall be planted. Where the village forester determines that a replacement tree
would be appropriate, the owner of the abutting property shall be given the
option of participating in the village's 50/50 parkway tree program, relative
to the planting of a replacement tree, or opting not to replace the tree. (Ord.
97-12-56)
9-2-9: TREE TRIMMING STANDARDS:
In furtherance of promoting aesthetics and providing for the safe and proper
maintenance and trimming of trees within the village, all tree trimming within
the village, whether on public or private property, shall be performed in
accordance with the A300 standard of the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI A300 standard), three (3) copies of which are on file with both the
village clerk's office and the department of quality control. (Ord. 02-10-30)
CHAPTER 3
RAILROADS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Permission Required To Construct Railroads
9-3-2: Tracks Conform To Street Grade
9-3-3: Blocking Crossings
9-3-4: Unnecessary Sounding Of Whistles
9-3-5: Frogs, Switches In Streets
9-3-6: Construction, Maintenance Of Crossings, Drainage Facilities
9-3-7: Warning Devices At Depots, Crossings
9-3-8: Names Of Violators Furnished By Superintendent
9-3-1: PERMISSION REQUIRED TO CONSTRUCT RAILROADS:
No person shall construct, operate or attempt to lay, construct or operate any
railroad or any street railroad of any character in, along, under, above, or
across any of the public streets lying and being within the Village without
first having obtained permission and consent from the President and Board of
Trustees, which permission or consent shall only be granted by ordinance passed
according to law. (1951 Code 18-13)
9-3-2: TRACKS CONFORM TO STREET GRADE:
All railroad companies and the owners or lessees of any railroad track shall
raise or lower their railroad tracks lying within the limits of the Village so
as to conform to any grade which may at any time be established for any street,
alley or highway by ordinance of the President and Board of Trustees. (1951
Code 18-1)
9-3-3: BLOCKING CROSSINGS:
No person shall cause or allow any locomotive engine, car or cars to stop in or
remain upon any street and railroad crossing within the Village for a longer
period than ten (10) minutes at any one time. Provided, however, that in case a
collision shall take place at any crossings, reasonable time shall be allowed
to remove any obstruction caused thereby. (1951 Code 18-1, 18-4)
9-3-4: UNNECESSARY SOUNDING OF WHISTLES:
It shall be unlawful to cause or allow the whistle of any railroad engine to be
sounded within the Village except for necessary signals for brakes and street
crossing, and such signals as may be absolutely necessary to prevent injury to
persons and to property. (1951 Code 18-8)
9-3-5: FROGS, SWITCHES IN STREETS:
No frog, switch rail or any part of a side track or turnout shall be placed in
or across any portion of any public street without special per mission from the
President and Board of Trustees, nor shall what is known as a "running switch"
be permitted along or across a public street. (1951 Code 18-9)
9-3-6: CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE OF CROSSINGS, DRAINAGE FACILITIES:
Any railroad company or corporation operating any railroad within or through
the limits of the Village shall construct and maintain safe and secure
crossings across the tracks of such railroad where the same intersects any
street, lane or avenue, and shall also maintain and keep sufficient and proper
ditches, conduits, culverts and gutters to carry off all water on or along such
railroad tracks. Said drainage facilities shall be so constructed and
maintained that the natural drainage of adjacent property will not be impeded.
Upon the failure or refusal of any railroad company or corporation to construct
any crossing, ditch, conduit, culvert or gutter as aforesaid, it shall be the
duty of the Village to notify in writing the station agent or other officer or
agent of such railroad company or corporation to construct or repair such
crossings, ditches, conduits, culvert or gutter within thirty (30) days from
the date of such notice. Upon failure of such railroad company or corporation
to comply with the notice aforesaid, the Village may do the work and charge the
ex pense thereof against the railroad company or corporation. (1951 Code 18-1,
18-10)
9-3-7: WARNING DEVICES AT DEPOTS, CROSSINGS:
All railroads having depots, stations or platforms in the Village shall
maintain signal and warning devices at said depots, stations and platforms
which give warning of all trains approaching from any direction when said
trains are within three thousand feet (3,000') of said depot, station or
platform; and shall also maintain at all street and railroad crossings in the
Village, electric signal, gates and warning bells which shall give warning of
all trains approaching from any direction when said trains are within three
thousand feet (3,000') of said crossing. (1951 Code 18-15; 1985 Code)
9-3-8: NAMES OF VIOLATORS FURNISHED BY SUPERINTENDENT:
Each superintendent of any railroad shall furnish to any officer of the Village
the name of any person in the employ of said railroad who is charged with
having violated any of the provisions of this Chapter. (1951 Code 18-2)
CHAPTER 4
WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-4A-1: Enforcement
9-4A-2: Right Reserved to Change Rates or Regulations
9-4A-3: Departments Combined, Jurisdiction
9-4A-4: Director of Public Works
9-4A-5: Waterworks and Sewerage Fund Created
9-4A-6: Use of Village Services Required
9-4A-7: Village Not Liable for Damage
9-4A-8: Installations to System, Requirements and Specifications
9-4A-9: Violations, Penalties
9-4A-1: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the Public Works Director of the Village and all
persons in the employ of the Village, having police power, to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter and all ordinances, rules and regulations respecting
the waterworks and sewerage system and to arrest or cause to be arrested all
persons violating the same. (1951 Code 5-7-5)
9-4A-2: RIGHT RESERVED TO CHANGE RATES OR REGULATIONS:
Nothing in this Chapter contained shall prevent the Village from changing or
altering the provisions hereof, and the Village shall have and retain authority
from time to time to change, increase, decrease or improve said system and
plant, or any part or portion thereof, or to establish new or different rates,
regulations or provisions concerning the uses of said water or plant, or to
alter, amend, change or repeal the provisions of this Chapter. (1951 Code 5-7-
1)
9-4A-3: DEPARTMENTS COMBINED, JURISDICTION:
   A.   The waterworks system and the sewerage system in the Village shall be
maintained and operated together as a combined waterworks and sewerage system,
and hereinafter in this Chapter where the term Department is used, it shall be
considered to mean the Public Works Department, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
   B.   The Public Works Department, under the direction of the Public Works
Director and such other officers and employees as may be from time to time
lawfully appointed, shall have the supervision, management and control, subject
to the authority of the Village Manager, of the maintenance; enlargement and
operation of the combined waterworks and sewerage systems owned and controlled
by the Village, the procuring and selling of water, and all matters and things
connected with the operation, maintenance and extension of said combined
waterworks and sewerage system, and preserving the property belonging thereto.
(1951 Code 5-1-1, 5-1-2; 1985 Code)
9-4A-4: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
   A.   Appointment, General Duties:
      1.   There shall be a Director of Public Works to be appointed by the
City Manager 1 , who shall have supervision over all buildings and equipment
used in the furnishing of water in the Village and shall see that the object
and purposes of the Public Works Department are carried out, and that the
combined water works and sewerage system is conducted on an economical,
businesslike basis and for this purpose it shall be the duty of the Director
and all of the officers, employees and servants of said Department to enforce
all the provisions of this Chapter and to observe and obey and carry out the
orders and direction of the Village Manager and the Village Board.
      2.   Where the streets are required to be opened for repairs or
extensions, the Director shall cooperate with the Public Works Department for
the protection of the public against accidents during such repairs and
extensions.
      3.   He shall prepare and keep in his office a complete atlas of the
waterworks and sewerage system, with all valves, hydrants, water service
connections and other appurtenances distinctly recorded therein.
      4.   The Director, or such officer or employee of the Department as he
shall direct, shall read water meters, collect the water rates, issue water
permits and shall perform such other duties as now are, or may hereafter be
imposed upon him by law or this Code.
   B.   Bond Required: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the
Director of the Department shall execute a bond to the Village in the penal sum
prescribed by the President and Board of Trustees with sureties to be approved
by the Board of Trustees, conditioned as provided by law 2 . (1951 Code 5-1-1,
5-1-5, 5-1-9; 1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-9-1B of this Code.
2 2. See Title 1, Chapter 6 of this Code.
9-4A-5: WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE FUND CREATED:
All funds and moneys incident to the operation of the waterworks and sewerage
system shall be deposited in a separate fund, designated as the "Waterworks and
Sewerage Funds of the Village of Oak Lawn" and said fund shall be administered
in every respect in the manner provided by Illinois Revised Statutes, chapter
24, paragraphs 11-139-1 et. seq. (1951 Code 5-6-1)
9-4A-6: USE OF VILLAGE SERVICES REQUIRED:
   A.   No person having his residence or place of business within the
territorial limits of the Village shall be permitted to buy water or secure
sewage facilities from any other municipal corporation or other public utility
for such residence or place of business located in the Village whenever the
water or sewer or both of the waterworks and sewerage system of the Village is
adjacent to their property.
   B.   Every new and existing dwelling, residence, place of business, or
public building within the territorial limits of the Village, located on a lot
abutting an existing available public sanitary sewer, shall, within ninety (90)
days after the effective date hereof, tie into such public sanitary sewer, and
all connections to other means of sewage disposal shall be disconnected within
said time.
   C.   Every new and existing dwelling, residence, place of business, or
public building within the territorial limits of the Village, located on a lot
abutting an existing available public water main, shall, within ninety (90)
days after the effective date hereof, tie into such public water main, and all
existing wells or private water supply piping shall be disconnected from the
potable water piping of said dwelling, residence, place of business or public
building, and capped, within said time.
   D.   Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall be punished
by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). Each day the violation of the provisions of this Section
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. (1951 Code
5-3-2; Ords. 70-40-50, 89-7-14)
9-4A-7: VILLAGE NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGE:
All connections and water applied for hereunder, and all the water used
hereunder, shall be upon the express condition that the Village shall not be
liable, nor shall any claim be made against it, for damage or injury caused by
reason of the breakage of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or
appurtenances connected with said system or plant, or any part or portion of
said plant, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of
machinery or by reason of stoppage, alteration, extension and renewals. (1951
Code 5-7-2)
9-4A-8: INSTALLATIONS TO SYSTEM, REQUIREMENTS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Work to be Workmanlike, Supervision Generally: All work done in the
streets and alleys or public places of the Village, in connection with the
waterworks and sewerage system, shall be done in a thorough and workmanlike
manner and shall be under the supervision and direction of the Director and
subject to his approval.
   B.   Refilling of Trenches: All earth removed in excavating for sewer and
water service pipes shall be returned to the trenches from which it was taken,
and shall be replaced in layers not exceeding six inches (6") in depth; each
layer shall be thoroughly compacted by ramming, and the earth shall be
moistened sufficiently to permit the return of all the earth to the trenches by
ramming as above specified. When completed, the surface of the backfilling in
the trenches shall not be higher than the general surface of the ground on
either side of same, and the roadways of all streets shall be left, and shall
be maintained for a period of one year, in as good condition for travel as they
were before the commencement of the said work.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   Purchased Through Village: All corporation cocks, goosenecks, curb
cocks and buffalo or shutoff boxes and meter boxes installed in connection with
the sewer and water system of the Village must be purchased through the said
Village.
      2.   Types of Corporation and Curb Cocks, Inspection:
         a.   All corporation and curb cocks used in connection with the
waterworks and sewerage system shall be made of bronze which shall have the
following composition:
            Copper: 80% to 85%
            Tin: 4% to 6%
            Zinc: 4% to 6%
            Lead: No more than 5%
All casts shall be high grade, true to form and dimensions, smooth and free
from all sand or blowholes or other foundry defects, and all material used
therein shall be of the best quality and subject to the approval of the
Director.
         b.   Samples of corporation cocks and stopcocks must be submitted to
the Department for inspection before installation.
   D.   Tapping Angle: The main must be tapped at an angle of forty five
degrees (45o) with the vertical, and the corporation cock must be turned so
that the T handle will be on top.
   E.   Requirements for Boilers: All boilers connected with the waterworks and
sewerage system shall be provided with a tank of sufficient capacity to hold at
least six (6) hours' supply, and in case this supply is shut off for the
purpose of repair or any other purpose, the Village will not be responsible for
any damage that may result. Consumers and other persons are prohibited from
connecting pipes directly with the Village pressure to supply steam boilers.
(1951 Code 5-4-2, 5-4-3, 5-7-3; 1985 Code)
9-4A-9: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES:
Any violation of this Chapter shall be punishable as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code and in addition thereto the Department shall not issue
permits of any kind within its jurisdiction to the offending party until the
said party has complied with the provisions of this Chapter. (1951 Code 5-4-7)
ARTICLE B. RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
9-4B-1: Reasonable Rates For Maintenance Of System
9-4B-2: Water Rates And Charges
9-4B-3: Sewer Rates And Charges
9-4B-4: Deposit Required
9-4B-5: Billing, Delinquency Procedures
9-4B-6: Customer Responsible For Water Registered By Meter
9-4B-7: Notify Department When Moving
9-4B-1: REASONABLE RATES FOR MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM:
A charge shall be made to the residents of the Village which shall be
reasonable for the use and service of such waterworks and sewerage system, and
such charges or rates for that purpose shall be established, and such rates
shall be sufficient to pay the costs, maintenance, operation, depreciation and
payment of the principal and interest on any revenue bonds that may be issued
by the Village for the construction, installation, repairing and improving of
said combined system. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4B-2: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
   Except as otherwise provided herein, all consumers of water furnished by the
Village shall pay for water quarterly on the basis of total gallonage of water
used in that quarter according to the following rate schedule:
   A.   Residential Rates (Quarterly):
      1.   Effective June 1, 2025:
         a.   0 to 9,000 gallons at $8.06 per 1,000 gallons (minimum charge of
$72.54).
         b.   9,001 to 30,000 gallons at $8.41 per 1,000 gallons.
         c.   Over 30,000 gallons at $8.76 per 1,000 gallons.
   B.   Nonresidential Rates (Monthly):
      1.   Effective June 1, 2025:
         a.   0 to 3,000 gallons a minimum charge of $24.18.
         b.   3,001 to 10,000 gallons at $8.41 per 1,000 gallons.
         c.   Over 10,000 gallons at $8.76 per 1,000 gallons.
   C.   Outside Communities (Monthly):
      1.   Effective June 1, 2025:
         a.   Chicago Ridge at $5.490 per 1,000 gallons.
         b.   Palos Hills at $5.520 per 1,000 gallons.
         c.   Oak Forest at $5.547 per 1,000 gallons.
         d.   Tinley Park at $5.507 per 1,000 gallons.
         e.   Orland Park at $5.483 per 1,000 gallons.
         f.   Country Club Hills at $5.689 per 1,000 gallons.
         g.   Matteson at $5.677 per 1,000 gallons.
         h.   Olympia Fields at $6.007 per 1,000 gallons.
         i.   Palos Park at $5.878 per 1,000 gallons.
         j.   Bridgeview locations at the non-residential rates (see above).
   D.   Effective Date: The rates as provided in subsections A through C of
this section shall become effective upon the dates noted, or at the next
specific billing date thereafter.
      In the event that an increase is made in the rates charged by the City of
Chicago for water sold by it to the Village, such increase shall be immediately
reflected, upon it becoming effective, by way of a like increase in the amounts
set forth in subsections A through C of this section. An ordinance amending
said subsections A through C of this section, to reflect any such increase,
shall be brought forward to the Village Board in January of each year.
Notwithstanding the adoption date of said ordinance, the increase reflected in
said ordinance shall be effective as of the effective date of the increase from
the City of Chicago, and all water customers shall be billed accordingly.
   E.   Fees For Water Connection Permits: The estimated fees to be charged for
a permit to tap or otherwise make a connection with any water main constructed
shall be as follows. Estimated permit fees are subject to change based on
current market values. Said articles shall remain at all times the property of
the Village.
Size (Inches) Water Tap Material Estimated Permit Fee
Size (Inches) Water Tap Material                          Estimated Permit Fee
2             Copper corporation                          $ 300.00
2             Copper curb stop                            400.00
2             Buffalo box                                 190.00
2             Water meter                                 1,164.00
2             Tapper’s fee                              1,872.50
             Remote transmitter system                   100.00
                                                        $4,036.50
2             Copper corporation                          $ 300.00
2             Copper curb stop                            400.00
2             Buffalo box                                 200.00
11/2          Water meter                                 1,100.00
2             Tapper’s fee                              1,872.50
             Remote transmitter system                   100.00
                                                        $3,972.50
              
11/2          Copper corporation                          $ 200.00
11/2          Copper curb stop                            300.00
11/2          Buffalo box (includes brushing)             200.00
1             Water meter                                 486.00
11/2          Tapper’s fee                              1,872.50
             Remote transmitter system                   100.00
                                                        $3,158.50
              
1             Copper corporation                          $ 100.00
1             Copper curb stop                            150.00
1             Buffalo box                                 100.00
3/4           Water meter                                 423.00
1             Tapper’s fee                              1,872.50
             Remote transmitter system                   100.00
                                                        $2,745.50
              
3/4           Copper corporation                          $ 100.00
3/4           Copper curb stop                            100.00
3/4           Buffalo box (includes brushing)             100.00
5/8 x 3/4     Water meter                                 390.00
3/4           Tapper’s fee                              1,872.50
             Remote reader                               100.00
                                                        $2,662.50
              
Inspection fee for all water taps over 2 inches plus cost $4,500.00
of water meter and remote reader
 
   F.   Water Shut Off At Consumer’s Request; Minimum Rate: When the water is
shut off temporarily at the request of any consumer, and the meter is not
removed, the consumer shall pay their regular minimum rate per month, unless a
special arrangement has been approved by the Village.
   G.   Water Use And Consumption Tax: For water use and consumption tax refer
to Section
9-4E-4.
(Ords. 19-11-26, 19-25-83, 20-14-37, 21-01-09, 21-10-46, 21-12-63, 22-01-01,
22-09-28, 22-22-71, 23-08-28, 23-21-82, 24-10-34, 24-21-75, 25-10-20)
9-4B-3: SEWER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Residential Units: There shall be a charge of ten dollars and thirteen
cents ($10.13) per month per sanitary sewer connection per family to each
single-family home, apartment, condominium, mobile trailer and motel rental
unit. This charge shall be billed quarterly at thirty dollars and thirty-nine
cents ($30.39). There shall also be an additional sewer service rehab charge of
ninety cents ($0.90) per one thousand (1,000) gallons for any usage of water
metered to each such user during a billing period.
   B.   Commercial And Industrial Units: There shall be a charge of eleven
dollars and eighty cents ($11.80) per month per commercial unit and per
industrial unit, plus an additional sewer rehab service charge of two dollars
seventeen cents ($2.17) per one thousand (1,000) gallons for any usage of water
metered to each such user during a billing period.
   C.   Other Entities: There is hereby established a sewer rehab service
charge for eleemosynary institutions, churches, hospitals, schools and all
other governmental entities in the amount of two dollars seventeen cents
($2.17) per one thousand (1,000) gallons for any usage of water metered to each
such user during a billing period. (Ords. 19-11-26, 21-01-06, 22-22-70, 23-21-
81, 24-21-76)
9-4B-4: DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
   A.   For Unmetered Water: Before a permit for the use of water shall be
issued where meters cannot be conveniently used, the person applying for the
same shall deposit one thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200.00) with the
Director as payment on account of water to be used by him. On or before thirty
(30) days from the date of the permit, the person to whom such permit is issued
shall file with the department, a statement in writing, verified by his
affidavit, showing fully the purpose for which the water was used by him for
that time, and the amount and location of all work done by him during said time
in connection with which any water was used, or required. The Director shall
ascertain from said testament and any other information, the amount due for
water so used. If the amount so found to be due, together with all other fees
and costs chargeable against such person is less than the sum deposited, then
the surplus shall be paid back to the depositor. If the amount due for water so
used is more than the sum deposited, then the excess shall be paid at once to
the Director by such person. If such person desires to continue to use the
water after he shall have filed his statement, he shall again deposit one
thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200.00) with the Director and shall continue
to make deposits thereafter and in the same manner as is provided herein with
respect to the first deposit, and the method of determining the amount of water
used and the charge for the same shall be the same as the provisions respecting
the first deposit as hereinbefore provided. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4B-5: BILLING, DELINQUENCY PROCEDURES:
   A.   Duty To Bill For Charges: It shall be the duty of the Director of
Public Works to cause statements for water, sewer, refuse charges and Water Use
and Consumption Tax to be delivered on the respective dates thereof and at
least every three (3) months to each consumer of water.
   B.   Date Due: All water, sewer, refuse charges, and Water Use and
Consumption Tax shall be due and payable on or before twenty (20) days after
the date when the statements of such charges are rendered and shall become
delinquent if remaining unpaid thereafter. An additional charge of ten percent
(10%) of the bill shall be imposed on any such bill which remains unpaid.
   C.   Discontinuing Service For Nonpayment: Whenever any water, sewer, refuse
charges and Water Use and Consumption Tax shall remain unpaid for a period of
more than thirty (30) days from the date of the statement herein provided for,
the water shall be turned off from the premises of such delinquent consumer and
the service shall not be resumed until all water, sewer, refuse bills and Water
Use and Consumption Tax in arrears and the appropriate service turn on fee have
been paid.
   D.   Water Not Furnished To Delinquent Consumers: No person owing water,
sewer, refuse charges and Water Use and Consumption Tax and removing to other
premises where there are water connections or where connections shall
afterwards be made, shall be supplied with water until such charges in arrears
are paid in full.
   E.   Liens: Such delinquent charges are liens upon the real estate. It shall
be the duty of the Public Works Director to file said lien against the real
estate in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds or Registrar of Titles, as
provided for in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-139-8 of the Illinois
Municipal Code.
   F.   Fees For Resuming Water Service: Where water service has been turned
off pursuant to this section for nonpayment of the bill for service and
nonpayment of Water Use and Consumption Tax, the fees charged for resuming
water service shall be as follows:
      1.   If the water service is turned on between eight thirty o'clock (8:
30) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M., Monday through Friday: One hundred
twenty five dollars ($125.00).
      2.   If the water service is turned on at any time other than as set
forth in subsection F1 of this section: Two hundred twenty five dollars
($225.00).
Water service shall only be turned on between eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M.
and four o'clock (4:00) P.M., Monday through Friday, unless the property owner/
water customer specifically requests that the water service be turned on at
another time. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4B-6: CUSTOMER RESPONSIBLE FOR WATER REGISTERED BY METER:
The owner or tenant of premises supplied with water will be held responsible
for all water registered by the meter; and no reduction shall be made or rebate
allowed to any consumer on account of leakage or alleged leakage in any pipe,
tank or other apparatus or device. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4B-7: NOTIFY DEPARTMENT WHEN MOVING:
Any person or party who shall enter upon and occupy any premises, shall
immediately, before vacating said premises or removing to said premises, notify
the Public Works Department and secure reading of the meter. Said water reading
shall be effective for five (5) business days. (Ords. 19-11-26, 21-01-09, 21-
12-63)
ARTICLE C. WATER
SECTION:
9-4C-1: Service Subject To Conditions Of Chapter
9-4C-2: Right To Shut Off Water Reserved
9-4C-3: Right Of Entry Of Personnel, Obstructions Prohibited
9-4C-4: Water Connection Requirements, Permits
9-4C-5: Meters
9-4C-6: Service Pipe Requirements, Specifications
9-4C-7: Pressure Increasing Devices
9-4C-8: Alterations In Water Facilities
9-4C-9: Special Connections For Fire Protection
9-4C-10: Water Use Restrictions
9-4C-11: Fire Hydrants
9-4C-12: Cross-Connection And Backflow Protection
9-4C-12-1: Definitions
9-4C-12-2: Protection From Auxiliary Water Supply
9-4C-12-3: Administration; Enforcement
9-4C-13: Use Of Groundwater As A Potable Water Supply; Prohibition
9-4C-14: Use Of Fire Hydrants By Unauthorized Personnel; Permit Required
9-4C-1: SERVICE SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS OF CHAPTER:
Every consumer of water shall take the same upon the conditions prescribed by
this chapter. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4C-2: RIGHT TO SHUT OFF WATER RESERVED:
The Village reserves to itself, through its President and Board of Trustees,
the right to shut off the water supply of any consumer, at any time, without
preliminary notice, and all consumers of water shall be subject, at all times
to this reservation and right. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4C-3: RIGHT OF ENTRY OF PERSONNEL, OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Ready Access: The Director and every person authorized by him, all
meter readers and inspectors shall have ready access to the premises, place or
buildings where water is furnished for the purpose of reading, examining,
testing and repairing meters and examining and testing the consumption, use and
flow of water, and examining fixtures and pipes, at any time between the hours
of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day.
   B.   Interfering With, Obstructing Village Officers: It shall be unlawful to
interfere with, prevent or obstruct the Director or such other person in his
work hereunder. No person shall in any manner obstruct, or cause to be
obstructed, the free access of any duly authorized officer or employee of the
Village to any stop cock shut off valve, water meter, remote reading device and
associated wiring, buffalo or shutoff box or connection with any water main or
service pipe by means of any coal, lumber, brick, building material, or by any
other means or device whatsoever, or to prevent free access thereto by such
officer or employee whenever such officer or employee shall desire access
thereto. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4C-4: WATER CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS, PERMITS:
   A.   Application For Service Required; Contents: Any person desiring to make
any connection with the Village water system or plant, or use water therefrom,
shall first make application to the Director upon a blank form or forms to be
furnished by the department. Said application shall contain an agreement on the
part of the applicant that all rules and regulations, conditions and provisions
of any ordinance relating to the water and sewer system will be complied with;
that all water rates, assessments and rents, and all fines and penalties
assessed, charged or imposed against said applicant or the property described
in said application will be paid.
   B.   Issuance Of Connection Permit: When the applicant hereunder has
complied with all the provisions of the ordinances of the Village, a permit
shall then be issued by the Director authorizing the connections to be made and
specifying the size thereof.
   C.   Plumber To Perform Connection Work: All plumbing and plumbing work and
all excavating, filling and replacement of pavement shall be done by a plumber
authorized by this Code and the ordinances of the Village to do such plumbing;
provided, however, all such replacement of pavement shall be done by the
Village in accordance with the provisions of this Code or other applicable
ordinances. The permit shall authorize any such plumber to do such plumbing and
plumbing work as is described in the permit.
   D.   Village To Tap Main: Whenever any permit for a connection with the
water mains of the Village is issued hereunder, the Director or an employee of
the Village designated for the work by the Director, shall tap the main of said
system where such connection is to be made and shall insert the corporation
cock. The plumber is required to furnish and install tapping sleeve and install
the corporation cock for any service one and one-half inches (11/2") to two
inches (2").
   E.   Size, Depth, Type Of Pipe:
      1.   Minimum Size Of Connections: No connection with any water main of
the Village shall be of less than three-fourths inch (3/4"). For larger size
taps special prices may be made.
      2.   Depth Of Connection Pipe: The connection from the main to the
service cock shall be placed at least five feet (5') below the level of the
ground, and the copper pipe (type K) shall be laid in a straight line on solid
ground to prevent breakage from unsettled ground.
      3.   Type Of Service Pipe: The pipe to be used in connection of the
service pipe from the shutoff box to the meter shall be of type K copper pipe
of the same specifications as prescribed for the service pipe between the water
main and the shutoff box.
   F.   Proximity Of Water Service To Other Trenches: No water service shall be
laid nearer than eighteen inches (18") from a parallel trench.
   G.   Breaking Seals Placed By Department: No seal placed by the department
for the protection of any meter, remote reading device, valve, fitting or other
water connection shall be defaced or broken except on written authority from
the Director.
   H.   Manner Of Connection: Each water service pipe shall be connected with
the main water pipe and shall extend horizontally at right angles with said
main water pipe to a point at least eighteen feet (18') from the centerline of
the street and shall be provided with a brass stop cock of not less than three-
fourths of an inch (3/4") in diameter to be installed within a telescopic
shutoff box of the best quality of cast iron or first grade steel pipe.
   I.   Shutoff Required, Location: There shall be a shutoff provided for every
connection or top, which shutoff must be in what is commonly called a buffalo
box and shall be located as near the outer sidewalk edge as conditions will
permit. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4C-5: METERS:
   A.   Required: All water consumers supplied by the Village shall be supplied
water through water meters only. The Director shall in all cases determine the
kind and pattern of water meters to be adopted and no other kind shall be
installed at any time.
   B.   Ownership, Purchase: All meters used in connection with the water and
sewer system shall be the property of the Village and shall be purchased by the
Village.
   C.   Placement, Location Of Meters:
      1.   Water meters shall be located at such place and in such manner as
the Village, through the Public Works Department, shall direct. Such meters
shall be placed in accordance with specifications to be prescribed by the
Village.
      2.   Each and every meter shall be installed inside of the building,
structure or premises to which the meter applies. Said area of installation
must be heated so as to prevent the freezing of water flowing through said
meter and damage to said meter at all times whether premises is occupied or
not.
   D.   Stop Cock Or Valve Required: A stop cock or valve shall be placed on
each side of each water meter.
   E.   Tampering With Meters: After a water meter is placed, only officers or
employees of the department shall be allowed to repair, remove or in any manner
interfere with the same. No person shall prevent or deny any access to any
authorized officer or employee to read, inspect, repair, convert or replace any
water meter or reading device. If an inspection or the automatic reading
network reveals that a meter and/or buffalo box has been removed, or if there
is evidence of tampering with the meter or seal, or buffalo box, then a fine of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first violation and seven hundred
dollars ($700.00) for subsequent violations shall be imposed on the owner of
the property for which such meter, reading device, and buffalo box is
installed. The owner of the property shall be served with a written notice
stating the notice of the violation and providing for the violation to cease
immediately. If a violation is not ceased within twenty four (24) hours of the
service of notice, the Village shall have the right to cut off the water supply
to such property, and shall not again be permitted to be turned on until such
owner of the property shall have paid to the Village the penalty stated above
and the cost and expense of cutting off and turning on such water supply.
   F.   Responsibility For Repairs, Liability For Damage: The cost of keeping
each water meter in repair shall be paid by the person upon whose application
such meter was installed or repaired, as soon as the bill therefor is
presented. The person upon whose application any meter is installed shall be
liable for any breakage or any loss or damage to such meter in any way, except
by ordinary use and wear, and the cost of making good such loss or damage to
such meter in any way, shall be paid by the person upon whose application such
meter was installed or repaired, as soon as the bill for same is presented, and
the amount thereof shall be a lien against the premises for which said meter
was installed to the extent and with the same effect as water rates.
   G.   Request For Water Meter Testing: Any customer who disputes the accuracy
of the water meter serving their property may request that such water meter be
tested. Upon payment to the Village of a testing fee, in the amount of three
hundred dollars ($300.00), the disputed water meter will be removed and
replaced with a like type meter by representatives of the Village and will be
delivered to a testing facility designated by the Village. The meter will be
tested in accordance with the American Water Works Association Meter Testing
Procedures. If, after such testing, the water meter proves to be within limits
set forth by the American Water Works Association, the fee paid shall be
retained by the Village to cover the costs of removal, testing, and
reinstallation of the meter. If, after such testing, the meter over records in
aggregate amount exceeding limits defined by the American Water Works
Association Meter Testing Procedures, the meter shall be replaced at no cost to
the customer, and the testing fee shall be refunded in full. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4C-6: SERVICE PIPE REQUIREMENTS, SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Installation, Maintenance, Size: Every person supplied with water from
the Village water system shall, at his own cost and expense, have installed and
kept in repair all pipes leading from the buffalo or shutoff box to his
building, structure or premises which is supplied with water through such
service pipe. All service pipes laid from the water main to the buffalo or
shutoff box, and from the buffalo or shutoff box to the building, structure or
premises, shall not be less than three-fourths inch (3/4") internal diameter.
   B.   Protection From Freezing, Breaking, Rupture: All water service pipes
shall be so laid so as to prevent freezing, breaking or rupture by settling.
   C.   Pressure Test Of Service Pipes: All water service pipe installed of
size three-fourths inch (3/4") internal diameter to two inch (2") internal
diameter shall withstand a test of seventy five (75) pounds pressure for a
period of ten (10) minutes without leaking. All water service pipe installed of
size three inch (3") internal diameter or larger shall withstand a test of one
hundred fifty (150) pounds pressure for a period of one hour with an acceptable
loss of five (5) pounds within the one hour period.
   D.   Responsibility For Repairs: All repairs to service pipes and
connections therefrom shall be at the expense of the owner or tenant of the
premises supplied, excepting repairs on the section of the pipe included
between the corporation cock at the main and the curb cock in the parkway.
   E.   Gooseneck Required: A gooseneck shall be provided for each water
service pipe and must be supported by means of brick built up from the bottom
of the trench.
   F.   Inspection, Approval Of Service Pipes: All water service pipes and
connections shall be inspected and approved by the Director or other persons
under his direction, and no such service pipes shall be covered until they have
been so inspected; provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to work done under the jurisdiction of the Board of Local
Improvements.
   G.   Service Pipes Supplying More Than One Premises: No service pipe shall
be laid or used to supply water to two (2) or more distinct premises or
buildings unless separate stop cocks for each of the premises or buildings
shall be placed outside of such premises in the parkway and a permit shall be
obtained for each service. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4C-7: PRESSURE INCREASING DEVICES:
No booster pump or other apparatus intended to increase water pressure shall be
installed unless an approved reduced pressure principle backflow preventor
assembly (RPZ valve) and/or a tank or reservoir be provided between the meter
and such pump or apparatus. Said RPZ valve shall be properly drained and in
compliance with all Village Plumbing Codes. Said tank or reservoir shall be
covered, and shall be provided with a vent or overflow to atmosphere, and shall
be so designed as to prevent a direct hydraulic connection between the meter
and the pump or pressure increasing apparatus. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4C-8: ALTERATIONS IN WATER FACILITIES:
No alteration, change of location or addition of any kind shall be made to any
water meter, water cock or service pipe, connected in any way with the Village
supply to any building or premises, without first obtaining a written permit
from the Village Director. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4C-9: SPECIAL CONNECTIONS FOR FIRE PROTECTION:
Any person who is a regular consumer, may be permitted by the Director to make
special connections with the street mains, together with hydrants and house
cocks, to be used in case of fire. For such permit, and for all water used for
fire purposes, there will be no charge, but all such work in connection with
the sewer and water system must be done by the Village or under the direction
of the Director of Public Works and the Oak Lawn Fire Department. (Ord. 19-11-
26)
9-4C-10: WATER USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Furnishing Water To Others: No person, whether owner or occupant, in
possession or control of any building, structure or premises into which water
is supplied through the Village water system shall be allowed, without
permission from the Director, to supply other persons or families, or to supply
water from such building or premises to any building, structure or premises. If
any person violates any of the foregoing provisions of this section, the supply
of water to the building, structure or premises, shall be shut off and stopped
forthwith, and the water shall not be turned on to such building, structure or
premises from which it was cut off until there shall have been paid to the
Village such sum of money as the President and Board of Trustees shall deem
properly due the Village.
   B.   Unauthorized Use Of Water: No person not duly authorized shall turn on
any service cock, or use water therefrom when so turned on, and the person so
using or wasting water shall be liable to pay therefor at the regular water
rates without discount.
   C.   Using Water From Fire Hydrants: All hydrants or plugs placed in the
Village for fire purposes are hereby declared to be the public hydrants, and no
person, except such as have been authorized by the Director, shall open or draw
water therefrom, or in any manner interfere with same except in case of fire.
   D.   Fraudulent Representations, Misuse Or Waste Of Water: If after the
water supply shall have been turned on to any building, structure or premises,
it shall be found that fraudulent representations have been made by an
applicant for such water supply or that water is being used in or upon such
building, structure, or premises for purposes not set forth in the application
for such water supply, or that there is wilful and unreasonable use or waste of
water, the proper officer or employee of the Village shall have the authority,
and it shall be his duty, to cut off and stop the supply of water to such
building, structure or premises forthwith, and the water shall not be turned on
to such building, structure or premises until the person responsible for such
fraudulent representation or for such use of water or wilful or unreasonable
waste thereof shall pay to the Village such additional sum of money for such
water supply or on account of such unreasonable waste of water as the President
and Board of Trustees shall find properly to be due the Village.
   E.   Restrictions On Lawn Sprinkling And Other Water Uses:
      1.   Subject to the two (2) tier emergency restrictions set forth below,
in order for the Village to comply with the Illinois Department of
Transportation's "Rules and Regulations for the Allocation of Water from Lake
Michigan" dated January 1985, as amended November 3, 1988, commencing from May
15 through September 15 of each year, it shall be unlawful for any person: a)
to use water for the sprinkling or irrigation of lawns or gardens, except
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.
or seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on an odd/even
basis (on odd calendar days if the last digit in the street address is odd or
on the even calendar days if the last digit in the street address is even); or
b) to use an automatic lawn sprinkler or irrigation system for the purpose of
watering lawns or gardens, except between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on an odd/even basis.
Under emergency conditions, as determined by the President or the President and
Board of Trustees based on the recommendation of the Village's Director of
Public Works relative to the operational capacity of the Village's water
distribution system, the demands placed on the system by the users and the risk
of damage to or failure of the system, it shall be unlawful for any person to
use water for: a) the sprinkling or irrigation of lawns or gardens, or b) an
automatic lawn sprinkler or irrigation system to water lawns or gardens, except
during the permitted days and hours set forth below:
         a.   Tier I (conservation emergency): Sprinkling or irrigation of
lawns or gardens shall be permitted only on an odd/even basis between the hours
of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.
         b.   Tier II (total ban): Sprinkling or irrigation of lawns or gardens
(manually or by an automatic lawn sprinkler or irrigation system) is
prohibited.
The President or the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Oak
Lawn, or their designee, shall provide notice by telephone, facsimile
transmission, e-mail, United States mail, messenger delivery or personal
service to the Mayor/President or the Manager or Administrator, or one of their
designees, to each municipality that purchases water from the Village whenever
one of the tier I and tier II restrictions is in effect; the notice shall
specify the type of tier emergency restriction and the duration of such
restriction. Upon receipt of notice from the Village that such an emergency
restriction is in effect, the Mayor/President, or his or her designee, shall
provide the same notice in accordance with subsection E3 of this section of the
necessity to limit or suspend the use of water within the municipality for
sprinkling or irrigation of lawns and gardens or for any other special purpose
(s) under the municipality's own code.
The President, or his or her designee, shall provide notice in accordance with
subsection E3 of this section whenever the President or the President and Board
of Trustees limit or suspend the use of water within the Village for the
sprinkling or irrigation of lawns and gardens or for any other special purpose
(s) under this chapter.
      2.   The Village reserves the right to further limit the use of water for
the sprinkling or irrigation of lawns and gardens or for any other special
purposes whenever the President and Board of Trustees shall determine that the
public exigencies require such action. If public exigencies so require, the
President may unilaterally take such action prior to the earliest opportunity
available for consultation with the Board of Trustees.
      3.   Whenever the President or the President and Board of Trustees limit
or suspend the use of water for the sprinkling or irrigation of lawns and
gardens or for any other special purpose(s), it shall be unlawful for any
person to use water for the sprinkling or irrigation of lawns and gardens or
for any other special purpose(s) designated, other than during the times
allowed for such use(s) of water, provided that said person has been given
notice of said limitation on, or the suspension of, the use of water, from the
Village, by telephone, facsimile transmission, e-mail, United States mail,
messenger delivery or personal service. In addition, the Village shall post the
notice of the water use restriction, including the type and duration of such
restriction, within the customary posting place in the Village Hall, on the
Village's cable access television channel, its website and in any other medium
normally used by the Village to communicate information of public concern to
the residents and public.
   F.   Violation: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
19-11-26)
9-4C-11: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Jurisdiction And Supervision: The Public Works Department, under the
direction of the Director of Public Works and such other officers and employees
as may be from time to time appointed, shall have supervision, management and
control of the inspection and maintenance of all fire hydrants, both public and
private, controlled by the Village. The Village shall inspect, at no charge to
the property owners, all fire hydrants which are located on private property
within the corporate limits of the Village at least twice per year.
   B.   Right Of Entry Of Personnel: The Director of Public Works and every
person authorized by him shall have ready access to the premises for the
purpose of testing and maintaining the fire hydrants at any time between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day. It
shall be unlawful to interfere with, prohibit or obstruct the Director or such
other persons in his work hereunder.
   C.   Obstructing Village Officers: No person shall in any manner obstruct or
cause to be obstructed the free access of any duly authorized person or
employee of the Village to any fire hydrant located within the Village. All
repairs to any domestic or fire line water services which must be made on
private property are the responsibility of the property owner to properly
maintain and repair. If any person in the employ of the Village observes any
leak or other damage in any domestic or fire line water service, he shall
immediately notify the property owner to make whatever repairs are necessary
within twenty four (24) hours or less. If the proper repairs are not made
within the twenty four (24) hour limit, the Village may, at its option,
discontinue service to that property until such time as the proper repairs are
made.
   D.   Hydrants Declared Public: All fire hydrants placed within the corporate
limits of the Village are hereby declared to be public hydrants, and no persons
except such as have been authorized by the Director shall open or draw water
therefrom, or in any manner interfere with same except in case of fire.
   E.   Accessibility Of Hydrants: It shall be unlawful for any person to
restrict the access to any fire hydrant within the Village by any trees,
shrubs, bushes, weeds, plants, fences or any other means, unless he has first
secured in writing, permission from the Director.
   F.   Location And Type Of Hydrants: The Director shall determine the type
and location of all fire hydrants located within the Village.
   G.   Inspection Procedures, Report: All fire hydrants located within the
Village corporate limits shall be inspected as indicated in subsection A of
this section. All inspections and repairs, when required, shall be conducted in
accordance with the American Water Works Association Manual M-17.
A copy of the report of the findings of the Public Works Department and the
results of its inspection shall be forwarded to the property owner stating, but
not limited to, the type of inspection made, the results of those inspections,
any repairs which have been made and the charges for same. Such report shall be
dated and signed by the person making the inspection. This report shall
guarantee the condition of the fire hydrant at the time of inspection only. The
Village assumes no liability for any damages which may occur through accident
or act of God between inspections, which may render the fire hydrant
inoperative. If any property owner or his agent observes any fire hydrant which
may have been damaged by accident or act of God, he shall immediately notify
the Water Division to make whatever repairs are necessary.
   H.   Painting Of Hydrants: The Public Works Department shall, as necessary,
paint each and every fire hydrant located on private property. Payment for same
shall be as hereinafter provided in subsection J of this section.
   I.   Responsibility For Restoration: Whenever during the course of repairs
it becomes necessary for the Public Works Department to in any way excavate,
dig or otherwise disturb the ground around a fire hydrant, the responsibility
for restoring the ground to its original condition shall lie with the owner of
the property. The Village shall backfill the excavated area and place four
inches (4") of topsoil over the entire excavated area and leave same in a
reasonable condition so as to allow the planting of grass or sod.
   J.   Charges For Repairs: If any fire hydrant which is located on private
property is determined to be in need of repairs and/or maintenance, the Public
Works Department is hereby authorized to make any and all such repairs to
maintain a fire ready operation of said fire hydrant, and shall bill the owner
of the property for the actual costs of all labor and materials expended to
make the necessary repairs.
      1.   All charges for the repairs or painting of any fire hydrants located
on private property shall be due and payable on or before twenty (20) days
after the date when statements of such charges are returned and shall become
delinquent if remaining unpaid thereafter.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the Director to cause statements for these
charges to be delivered within ten (10) days after the actual completion of the
work.
      3.   Whenever any charges for the work, as outlined herein, are remaining
unpaid for a period of more than thirty (30) days from the date of the
statement, the water, at the option of the Director, shall be turned off from
the premises of such delinquent premises and the service shall not be restored
until all bills and arrears have been paid.
      4.   Such delinquent charges are liens upon the real estate. It shall be
the duty of the Director of Public Works, upon the request of the department,
to file said lien against the real estate in the Office of the Recorder of
Deeds or Registrar of Titles as provided for in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-139-8 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   K.   Violations Of Provisions: Any violations of this section shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4C-12: CROSS-CONNECTION AND BACKFLOW PROTECTION:
9-4C-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this section
9-4C-12, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
AIR GAP SEPARATION: A physical break between a supply pipe and a receiving
vessel. The air gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel, and in no case less than
one inch (1").
APPROVED CHECK VALVE: A check valve that seats readily and completely. It must
be carefully machined to have free-moving parts and assured watertightness. The
face of the closure element and valve seat must be bronze composition, or other
noncorrodible material which will seat tightly under all prevailing conditions
of field use. Pins and bushings shall be of bronze or other noncorrodible,
nonsticking material, machined for easy, dependable operation. The closure
element (e.g., clapper) shall be internally weighted or otherwise internally
equipped to promote rapid and positive closure in all sizes where this feature
is obtainable.
APPROVED DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly of at least two (2)
independently acting approved check valves including tightly closing shutoff
valves on each side of the check valve assembly and suitable leak detector
drains plus connections available for testing the watertightness of each check
valve. Unless otherwise authorized by the Director of Public Works, a pressure
relief valve, rated at no more than fifty (50) pounds per square inch greater
than the water service pressure, shall be installed on the downstream side of
the double check valve assembly.
APPROVED REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device
incorporating two (2) or more check valves and an automatically operating
differential relief valve located between the two (2) checks, two (2) shutoff
valves, and equipped with necessary appurtenances for testing. The device shall
operate to maintain the pressure in the zone between the two (2) check valves,
less than the pressure on the public water supply side of the device. At
cessation of normal flow the pressure between the check valves shall be less
than the supply pressure.
In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief valve shall
operate to maintain this reduced pressure by discharging to the atmosphere.
When the inlet pressure is two (2) pounds per square inch or less, the relief
valve shall open to the atmosphere thereby providing an air gap in the device.
To be approved, these devices must be readily accessible for maintenance and
testing and installed in a location where no part of the device will be
submerged. Unless otherwise authorized by the Director of Public Works, a
pressure relief valve rated at no more than fifty (50) pounds per square inch
greater than the water service pressure, shall be installed on the downstream
side of the reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
APPROVED WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply approved by, or under the public
supervision of the Director of Public Works. In determining what constitutes an
approved water supply, the Director shall have the final judgment as to its
safety and potability.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the Village water supply.
CONSUMER: Any person to whom water is sold and furnished from the Village water
supply by the Village.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the Village water supply by the
presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, radiological or
biological) to a degree which creates a hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
CROSS-CONNECTION: Any unprotected connection between any part of the Village
waterworks system used or intended to supply water for drinking purposes, and
any source or system containing water or substances that are not or cannot be
approved as safe, wholesome, and potable for human consumption.
DIRECTOR: The Director of Public Works of the Village or his authorized
representative(s).
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, organization, partnership,
trust, or association of persons, joint venture, corporation, or company.
PREMISES: Integrated land area, including improvements thereon, undivided by
public thoroughfares or water distribution mains of the Village where all parts
of the premises are operated under the same management and for the same
purpose.
PROTECTIVE DEVICE: Any of the following devices:
   A.   Air gap separation;
   B.   Approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device; or
   C.   Approved double check valve assembly.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The terminal end of a service connection from the Village
water supply at its point of delivery to the consumer. If a meter is installed,
service connection means the downstream end of the meter. No unprotected
takeoffs from the service line ahead of any meter or backflow protective device
located at the point of delivery to the consumer shall be permitted.
WATER SUPPLY OF VILLAGE OR VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY: An approved water supply sold
and delivered to consumers' premises through the waterworks system of the
Village. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4C-12-2: PROTECTION FROM AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   All potable water systems shall be protected from contamination due to
backflow of contaminants through plumbing connections, fixtures or
appurtenances by compliance with those provisions of the Illinois Plumbing Code
and Illinois Pollution Control Board Regulations pertaining to such backflow.
If in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Director, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of
the public water supply system, the Director will give notice to the water
customer to install such an approved device immediately. The water customer
shall, at his own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in
a manner in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency and all applicable local regulations, and shall have
inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as
required by the Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency and local regulations.
   B.   Any cross-connection control device installed pursuant to this section
shall be approved by the Director prior to installation or the name of the
manufacturer or the device to be installed shall appear on a list of approved
manufacturers and devices maintained and available for public viewing at the
Office of the Director.
   C.   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the Village may enter the supply or distribution system of the
Village, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Director and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   D.   It shall be the duty of the Director to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial, industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2)
years, or as often as the Director shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years.
   E.   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the distribution system of the Village for the purpose of verifying the
presence or absence of cross- connections, and the Director or his authorized
agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served
by a connection to the distribution system of the Village for the purpose of
verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-
connection control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of
any property so served shall furnish to the Director any information which he
may request regarding the piping system or systems, or water use, on such
property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Director, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this chapter.
   F.   All users of the water supply of the Village are also subject to the
rules and regulations of the Village pertaining to cross- connection control
which shall be promulgated by the Director. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4C-12-3: ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The Director shall deny or discontinue, or take such other
precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply distribution mains, after reasonable
notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by this chapter or the rules and
regulations of the Village is not installed, tested, maintained and repaired in
a manner acceptable to the Director, or if it is found that the backflow
prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-
connection exists on the premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by
this chapter or the rules and regulations is not installed and maintained in
working order.
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with this
chapter and the rules and regulations and to the satisfaction of the Director,
and paid a fee for resuming water service in the amount stipulated in section
9-4B-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Director is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public
water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the Director or the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or
pollution of the public water supply.
   D.   Neither the Village, the Director, nor the Village's agents or assigns
shall be liable to any customers of the Village for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply in
accordance with the terms of this chapter or the Village's rules and
regulations, whether or not said termination of the water supply was with or
without notice.
   E.   The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   F.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter or the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto shall be served with written
notice stating the notice of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   G.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or the rules
and regulations adopted pursuant thereto in addition to the fine provided by
this Code, shall become liable to the Village for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned by the Village by reason of such violation, whether the same was
caused before or after notice. (Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4C-13: USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY; PROHIBITION:
   A.   Except for such uses or methods as are in existence on or before May
13, 1997, the use of, or attempted use of, groundwater, from within the
corporate limits of the Village, as a potable water supply, by the installation
or drilling of wells or by any other method, is hereby prohibited, including at
points of withdrawal by the Village.
   B.   For purposes of this section, "potable water" is any water used for
human or domestic consumption, including, but not limited to, water used for
drinking, bathing, washing dishes, preparing foods, watering lawns, or watering
gardens in which produce intended for human consumption is grown.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to
a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation.
(Ord. 19-11-26)
9-4C-14: USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONNEL; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, except a duly authorized officer,
agent or employee of the Village, to cause water to flow from any public or
private fire hydrant without a fire hydrant use permit issued by the Director
of Public Works, or his/her designee.
   B.   Each applicant for a fire hydrant use permit shall be required to
deposit with the Village the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for the
use of a large hydrant meter and hydrant wrench, or two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for the use of a small hydrant meter and hydrant wrench. The fire
hydrant meter must be installed by the applicant and maintained in good
condition for the duration of the period during which the fire hydrant is in
use. Upon completion of the fire hydrant use, the hydrant meter and hydrant
wrench shall be returned to the Village in good operating condition. Water use
recorded on the hydrant meter shall be charged at the rates specified in
subsection C of this section, to which shall be added a minimum daily fee of
six dollars ($6.00) for the use of the large hydrant meter, and three dollars
($3.00) for the use of the small hydrant meter, excluding weekends and
holidays. These charges shall be deducted from the aforementioned deposit, and
the balance of the deposit shall be refunded upon return of the hydrant meter
and hydrant wrench. Any damages to the hydrant meter or hydrant wrench shall
also be deducted from the deposit before refund is made. Any damages to the
Village's water system caused by the careless opening and closing of hydrants
shall also be paid by the applicant from the deposit, or otherwise, if in
excess of the deposit balance.
   C.   Water used from any fire hydrant shall be billed and charged at a rate
per one thousand (1,000) gallons or portion thereof, designated by the Water
Rate Ordinance in effect at the time the permit is issued.
   D.   A fire hydrant use permit shall be valid for a period of thirty (30)
days or date otherwise agreed upon from the date of issuance. Within three (3)
days of the expiration of a fire hydrant use permit, the permittee shall return
the fire hydrant meter and hydrant wrench to the Village. If the permittee
fails to do so, a written notice to return the hydrant meter and hydrant wrench
shall be forwarded to the permittee, by first class U.S. mail, at the address
indicated on the fire hydrant use permit application. If the permittee fails to
return the hydrant meter and hydrant wrench to the Village within seven (7)
days of the date of said notice, the permittee shall be deemed to have
purchased said hydrant meter and hydrant wrench from the Village for the amount
of the deposit referenced in subsection B of this section, and the Village
shall retain the entire deposit. The retention of said deposit, however, shall
not relieve the permittee from his/her/its obligation to pay for the cost of
the actual amount of water used by the permittee. (Ord. 19-11-26)
ARTICLE D. SEWERS
SECTION:
9-4D-1: Stormwater Sewer Defined
9-4D-2: Sanitary Sewer Required
9-4D-3: Permits Required, Fees
9-4D-4: Discharging Sanitary, Industrial Waste To Storm Sewers
9-4D-5: Draining Storm And Surface Water To Sanitary Sewer
9-4D-6: Notice, Inspection Of Sewer Connection
9-4D-7: Street Openings
9-4D-8: Manholes And Gravel Basins
9-4D-9: Garage Drainage, Public And Private
9-4D-10: Manual Of Procedures For Administration Of Metropolitan Sanitary Sewer
Permit Ordinance
9-4D-11: Extraneous Flows Into Sanitary Sewer System
9-4D-1: STORMWATER SEWER DEFINED:
In this article the term "stormwater sewer" shall be construed to mean a
conduit or sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage, but
excludes wastewater, sewage and industrial wastes. (Ord. 94-3-10)
9-4D-2: SANITARY SEWER REQUIRED:
No building for habitation shall be erected on any lot or parcel of land within
the village unless a functioning sanitary sewer is provided to serve said lot
or parcel of land. (Ord. 132)
9-4D-3: PERMITS REQUIRED, FEES:
   A.   For Work Affecting Sewers: No house drain or private sanitary sewer for
connection to the general sewage system of the village shall be laid, nor any
of the work in connection therewith commenced or prosecuted, nor shall any
excavation under or around any sewer be made, nor shall any person lay, alter
or disturb any part of any sewer or drain connected with any sewer belonging to
the village, without first having obtained a written permit for such work.
   B.   Sanitary Sewer Connection Permit, Fee: No person shall connect a house
sewer system to the sanitary sewers in any street, alley or easement without
having obtained a permit therefor from the village office. The charge for such
permit shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00) plus an inspection fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00); provided, however, that when the lateral sewer to
which the connection is to be made was constructed and paid for by said person
desiring such connection, only the inspection fee shall be charged.
   C.   Stormwater Sewer Connection Permit, Fee: No person shall connect any
stormwater sewer system to the stormwater sewers in any street, alley or
easement without having obtained a permit therefor from the village office. The
charge for such permit shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00) plus an
inspection fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00); provided, however, that when
the lateral stormwater sewer to which the connection is to be made was
constructed and paid for by said person desiring such connection, only the
inspection fee shall be charged. (1951 Code 5-5-1, 21-12-1; Ords. 67-10-27, 77-
38-71, 83-26-77, 94-3-10, 08-17-46, 08-19-55)
9-4D-4: DISCHARGING SANITARY, INDUSTRIAL WASTE TO STORM SEWERS:
No person shall permit, make or cause to make, a connection or otherwise
discharge sanitary sewer water or industrial wastewater into any storm sewer
located in the village. (1951 Code 5-5-2, 5-5-3, 21-12-5; Ords. 550, 67-12-30,
69-5-13)
9-4D-5: DRAINING STORM AND SURFACE WATER TO SANITARY SEWER:
No storm or surface water from any house shall be permitted to drain into any
public sanitary sewer. As used in this section, the term "house" shall also
include any store building, apartment building, or other principal structure
upon any parcel of land. (1951 Code 21-12-7)
9-4D-6: NOTICE, INSPECTION OF SEWER CONNECTION:
A written notice of intention to make a connection with a public sewer shall be
filed at the office of the director of public works at least twenty four (24)
hours, exclusive of Sundays and holidays, before such connection is made. Every
such connection shall be left uncovered until it has been inspected and
approved by the director, or an inspector from his office. (1951 Code 21-12-3;
1985 Code)
9-4D-7: STREET OPENINGS:
The provisions of chapter 1, article C of this title shall apply to any street
openings made in connection with sewer work. (1951 Code 21-12-2)
9-4D-8: MANHOLES AND GRAVEL BASINS:
   A.   Where it is necessary to make a change in direction of the house sewer
between the building and the public sewer, such change of direction shall be
made by means of a manhole to be constructed as the director shall direct.
   B.   All manholes and gravel basins shall be constructed of concrete, either
monolithic or block, composed by volume of one part of Portland cement, two (2)
parts sand and four (4) parts gravel or crushed stone, mixed with sufficient
water. They shall be circular in section, with an interior diameter of three
feet (3') except that the top shall be drawn into two feet (2') beginning at a
point three feet (3') below the top so as to fit and support the cover. The
walls of such manhole or gravel basin shall be four inches (4") in thickness if
built monolithic, or five inches (5") if built of blocks with full joints of
mortar composed of one part of Portland cement to two (2) parts of sharp clean
sand, mixed with sufficient water. Each manhole or gravel basin shall be
provided with a six inch (6") concrete floor with the invert, if any, molded
smoothly in the concrete or formed of sections of vitrified pipe imbedded in
the concrete. Each said manhole or gravel basin shall be provided with a cast
iron cover and cast iron or concrete frame. The floor of all gravel basins
shall be three feet (3') below the flow line of the outlet. (1951 Code 21-12-8)
9-4D-9: GARAGE DRAINAGE, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE:
Floor drains of garages shall be connected with the sanitary sewer system. Such
drains shall have intercepting grease traps approved by the director. (1951
Code 21-12-11)
9-4D-10: MANUAL OF PROCEDURES FOR ADMINISTRATION OF METROPOLITAN SANITARY SEWER
PERMIT ORDINANCE:
   A.   Overhead Plumbing Required In Certain Buildings: After December 31,
1970, all new buildings with basements, floors, rooms or occupancy areas below
ground level at the building site and served by a public or private sewer
system within the corporate limits of the village shall have overhead plumbing.
   B.   Footing Drains: Foot drains shall be connected to sump pumps and
discharge shall be made into storm sewers or drainage ditches. No footing
drains or drainage tile shall be connected to the sanitary sewer. After
December 31, 1970, all new construction shall conform to the requirements of
this subsection.
   C.   Sump Pumps: Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge ground wastes
or other storm waters shall be connected to the storm sewer or discharge into a
drainage ditch.
Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge floor drainage or other sanitary
sewage shall be connected to the sanitary sewers. A sump pump shall be used for
one function only, either the discharge of storm water or the discharge of
sanitary sewage.
   D.   Adoption Of Manual Of Procedures: The manual of procedures for the
administration of the metropolitan sanitary district sewer permit ordinance, as
adopted by the president and board of trustees of the metropolitan sanitary
district on September 3, 1970, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted
by the village of Oak Lawn. Three (3) copies of said manual shall be and remain
on file in the office of the clerk. (1951 Code 71-3-10; 1985 Code)
9-4D-11: EXTRANEOUS FLOWS INTO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM:
   A.   Prohibited, Defined: It is the purpose of this section that the entry
of extraneous flows into the sanitary sewer system be prohibited and be
discontinued, where such entry may be occurring accidentally or knowingly.
Extraneous flows are those flows, other than domestic sewage or industrial
waste, consisting of ground waters, surface waters, storm waters and other
drainage or clear waters.
   B.   Discharges, Connections Regulated:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged,
directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewer system of the village any
ground waters, surface waters, storm waters or any other extraneous flows.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to make a connection or to maintain or operate
a connection which serves any home, building or any other establishment,
premises or facilities, and which contributes, directly or indirectly, to the
sanitary sewer of the village, any ground waters, surface waters, storm waters
or any other extraneous flows.
   C.   Certain Drains Considered Illegal Connections: All drains or
connections designed or intended to receive and discharge ground waters,
surface waters, storm waters and other drainage, shall be considered illegal
connections if they discharge directly or indirectly into the sanitary sewer
system. Such illegal connections include, but are not limited to, roof drains,
downspouts, footing drains, areaway drains, drain tiles (and sump pumps used to
collect and discharge same), yard drains, catch basins and inlets, and such
connections shall not be allowed to discharge directly or indirectly into the
sanitary sewers.
   D.   Responsibility Of Owner To Maintain Connections To Sanitary Sewer: The
proper maintenance and operation of a building service sewer, house connection
or sanitary sewer line to the point of connection to the municipal sanitary
sewer system shall be the responsibility of the owner of the premises served by
said sanitary sewer pipes. "Maintenance" means keeping the sanitary sewer
connection, sewer lines or other sewer facilities or structures in satisfactory
working condition and good state of repair (including, but not limited to,
preventing any obstructions or extraneous materials or flows from entering said
facilities, protecting said facilities from any damage and keeping same free
from defects or malfunctions), and making necessary provisions and taking
necessary precautions to assure that said sewer facilities are at all times
capable of satisfactorily performing the services and adequately discharging
the functions and producing the final results and purposes said facilities are
intended to perform, discharge or produce. Notwithstanding the foregoing, so as
to ensure the proper restoration of dedicated right of way under the
jurisdiction of the village, where maintenance or repair to the building
service sewer, house connection or sanitary sewer line by the owner of the
premises served by same requires that work be performed in the dedicated right
of way under the jurisdiction of the village, the village shall perform any
necessary street or alley restoration work within said dedicated right of way,
after said maintenance or repair work is complete, and shall perform any grass,
sidewalk, concrete driveway apron or bituminous concrete driveway apron
restoration work within the parkway portion of the dedicated right of way,
after said maintenance or repair work is complete. Any parkway area restoration
work other than as referenced above (e.g., nongrass landscaping, brick paver
driveway apron, stamped concrete driveway apron) shall be the responsibility of
the owner of the premises served by the building service sewer, house
connection or sanitary sewer line that is subject to the maintenance or repair
work.
   E.   Discharges From Roof Drains, Footing Drains And Sump Pumps: All
downspouts or roof drains shall discharge onto the ground or be connected to
storm sewer, drainage ditches or drainage system. Footing drains shall be
connected to sump pumps and discharge shall be made into storm sewers, drainage
ditches or drainage system. Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge
ground waters or other storm waters shall be connected to the storm sewer or
discharge into a drainage ditch or drainage system. Sump pumps installed to
receive and discharge floor drain flow, laundry tubs or other sanitary sewage
shall be connected to the sanitary sewers. A sump pump shall be used for one
function only, either the discharge of storm waters, or the discharge of
sanitary sewage.
   F.   Program To Eliminate Extraneous Flows; Visual Inspections; Corrections
For Compliance:
      1.   Because of their almost instantaneous impact, their injurious
results, substantial contributions, and relative ease of correction, the
village will institute a priority program for the elimination of extraneous
flows entering into the sanitary sewer system through downspouts, roof drains
and other visible or outside connections which are connected directly or
indirectly to the sanitary sewer system.
      2.   Within a period of one year from the date hereof, and at no expense
to the property owner, the village will make visual outside inspections of all
properties within the village, with specific attention to downspouts, roof
drains and other visible or outside connections, and, if requested by the
property owner, the village will enter into the premises to ascertain if
illegal connections are present. Upon completion of the visual outside or
inside inspection, the village public works department, will advise the
property owner in writing if any illegal connections are observed, and will
advise on the manner of corrections for compliance with the provisions of this
section. After the corrections are made, the village will, at no expense to the
owner, make further inspections of the corrections to ensure compliance with
this section.
   G.   Disconnecting Illegal Connections Upon Notice; Fee To Correct
Downspouts:
      1.   Within ninety (90) days after written notice to the property owner
by the public works department, public works director, of the presence of
illegal connections, the property owner shall disconnect all illegal
connections observed and discharges of extraneous flows into the sanitary sewer
system, directly or indirectly, shall be discontinued.
      2.   At the request of the property owner, the village will furnish parts
and labor to correct drainage from downspouts at homes and apartment buildings.
The charge to the property owner for said parts and labor shall be the
village's actual costs.
   H.   Authority To Make Tests And Inspections: In addition to visual
inspection on the outside or the inside of the premises as indicated in
subsection F of this section, the village may make other tests and inspections
of the municipal sewer systems as it deems necessary in order to locate such
illegal connections and sources of extraneous flows as may exist. The village,
at its option, may also invoke other legal powers vested in it or implied by
the statutes for the protection of the health and welfare of the public, or
institute such legal action as it deems necessary to discover and order the
disconnections of any illegal connections that may exist.
   I.   Cost Share Program for Private Property Infiltration and Inflow
Reduction Improvements:
      The Village of Oak Lawn hereby establishes a cost share program for
private property infiltration and inflow reduction and improvements. The
purpose of this program is to reduce the instantaneous impact, injurious
results, and substantial contributions of extraneous flows to the village's
sewer system and to promote the relative ease of correction, which may be
undertaken by certain infiltration and inflow reduction improvements.
As such, the village shall allocate certain funds annually, which the village
in its discretion may provide as a reimbursement to persons who apply and are
approved for financial assistance in relation to performing infiltration and
inflow reduction work at a person's residence which may include, but not be
limited to, disconnection of downspouts from the public sewer system,
disconnection of footing drain pumps from the public sewer system, and
replacement or rehabilitation of defective sewer laterals.
      1.   Beginning on January 1, 2020, following the payment of an inspection
fee, the village will begin to make visual outside inspections of properties
within the village, with specific attention to downspouts, roof drains, and
other visible or outside connections, and if requested by a property owner, the
village will enter into the premises to ascertain if illegal connections are
present. Within five (5) days upon completion of a visual outside or inside
inspection, the village Public Works Director will advise the property owner in
writing, through a summary of findings inspection report, if any illegal
connections are observed and will advise on the manner of corrections for
compliance with the provisions of this section. In addition, the Public Works
Director will issue a proof of inspection certificate to the property owner.
      2.   If there is a determination by the Public Works Director that an
illegal connection exists at the premises, the Public Works Director will
provide the property owner with a copy of this section and the cost share
program for private property infiltration and inflow reduction improvement
("program") application materials. The Public Works Director and/or Village
Manager shall review the application materials submitted by the property owner
to determine if the property owner is eligible for the program.
      3.   If the application of the property owner is approved, the village
and the property owner shall enter into a program agreement providing the terms
and conditions whereby the village and property owner are governed in relation
to the village providing certain reimbursable funds toward the completion of
infiltration and inflow reduction work at the premises. The village shall only
provide funds pursuant to the program agreement following post-construction
verification shall include that the following documents be submitted to the
village:
         a.   A statement attesting to the completion of the infiltration and
inflow reduction work and that all documents provided are true and accurate
copies;
         b.   A complete list of contractors who performed any of the
infiltration and inflow reduction work;
         c.   A scope of work and documentation of all repairs made in relation
to the infiltration and inflow reduction work; and
         d.   A complete accounting of all costs associated with the
infiltration and inflow reduction work; and
All infiltration and inflow reduction work shall meet current village plumbing
and building codes. In addition, the property owner shall agree to allow the
village to re-inspect the premises following the completion of the work.
      4.   The eligibility for cost reimbursements pursuant to this section
will only be for monies spent towards infiltration and inflow reduction work
related to the village's sewer system. As such, monies paid for private
property improvements, building or structural improvements, property
restoration, or landscaping will not be reimbursed through the program. There
shall be no valve-actuate connections between the village's sewer system and
backyard discharge and footing drain disconnection must be physically and
completely disconnected from the village's sewer system.
      5.   The village's allocation of funds will be prioritized to houses in
neighborhoods with higher measured infiltration and inflow volumes as documents
in the village's 2012 Sewer Master Plan. Any amounts reimbursed through the
program shall be up to fifty percent (50%) of the total project cost but not
shall not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000) per applicant. When the annual
that are allocated pursuant to this section are depleted, the village shall not
issue any additional funds for that calendar year until the allocated funds are
replenished. The total annual funds allocated to the program shall be at the
village's discretion based upon the available budget. All costs reimbursed
issued pursuant to this section shall be capped at three hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($350,000).
   J.   Point of Sale Inspection, Certificate of Inflow and Infiltration
Compliance: No person shall transfer title of real estate located in the
Village as evidenced by the recordation of a deed or assignment of said real
estate, whether investing the new owner with the beneficial interest in or
legal title to said property or merely the possession or use thereof to the new
owner for any purpose, without first obtaining a certificate of inflow and
infiltration inspection from the Village. A certificate of inflow and
infiltration inspection from the Village shall only be required if the transfer
of title to real estate results in the possession of the real estate by a new
person, and if the persons possessing the real estate prior to the transfer no
longer possess it. It is the Village's intent to exclude from the inspection
requirements of this Section all transfers of title to real estate that do not
result in complete changes to possession of the real estate, such as, but not
limited to, transfers to or from trusts where the persons possessing the real
estate do not change and transfers to remove one of several persons on title
where a person remaining on title continues to possess the real estate. The
Village will grant a sewer inspection report upon inspection of the property's
sanitary sewer system and a confirmation certificate if the sanitary sewer
system meets the Village's requirements.
      1.   Inspection Process:
         a.   A person who owns real estate in the Village and is required to
obtain a certification of inflow and infiltration compliance, shall schedule an
infiltration and inflow inspection thirty (30) days prior to seeking a Real
State Transfer Stamp as provided in section
3-2-7 of this Code. The Village or the Village’s authorized representative
shall conduct an inspection to determine whether the property is in compliance
with the requirements of this Chapter. The applicant is responsible for making
the entire real estate and all buildings on the property available for
inspection. The fee for such inspection shall be one hundred dollars ($100).
         b.   If the property is new construction, the infiltration and inflow
inspection will be completed by a Village authorized sewer inspector as part of
the building inspection process. Compliance and Expiration.
         c.   The Village will issue a certificate of infiltration and inflow
inspection upon inspection and when the following private property infiltration
and inflow sources have been corrected in conformance with this Chapter: roof
leaders and downspouts have been properly disconnected from the sanitary sewer
system missing or damaged sanitary sewer cleanout caps have been replaced, and
area or yard drains have been properly disconnected from the sanitary sewer
system.
         d.   The certification of infiltration and inflow inspection is valid
for a period of three (3) years following issuance and used for the sale or
transfer of property.
         e.   The certificate of infiltration and inflow inspection must be
provided to property buyers. The applicant is responsible for providing
potential buyers, gift recipients or other persons to whom it intends to
transfer the title as to the property's receipt of the certificate of
infiltration and inflow inspection and documentation of inspection results.
      2.   Correction Notice:
         a.   Sale of transfer of real property is not permitted by the Village
until a certificate of infiltration and inflow inspection is issued.
         b.   If an inspection discloses that a property is not in accordance
with this Chapter, the applicant must complete corrections to bring the
property in compliance with this Chapter and schedule another inspection.
      3.   Repeat Inspection:
         a.   Upon inspection, if the property is not in conformance with the
obligations and standards as set forth in Chapter, the applicant shall be
entitled to a second inspection. If, as a result of this second inspection, the
Village inspector determines that all violations have been corrected, the
Village shall issue a certificate of infiltration and inflow inspection. The
Village reserves the right to charge an inspection fee for a third inspection.
   K.   Violations; Penalty: Failure on the part of the property owner to
comply with the provisions of subsections A through E and G of this section
shall be considered a violation which, upon conviction, shall be subject to a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Each day shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ords. 73-41-80, 74-17-36; 1985 Code; Ords. 99-5-11, 01-17-65, 02-19-82, 19-28-
96, 20-01-06, 20-08-23, 21-02-17, 22-08-26)
ARTICLE E. WATER USE AND CONSUMPTION TAX
SECTION:
9-4E-1: Water Use And Consumption Tax Defined
9-4E-2: Definitions
9-4E-3: Tax Imposed
9-4E-4: Rate Of Tax
9-4E-5: Collection And Payment Of The Tax
9-4E-6: Deposit Of Funds
9-4E-1: WATER USE AND CONSUMPTION TAX DEFINED:
The tax shall be known as the "Water Use and Consumption Tax" and is imposed in
addition to all other taxes imposed by the Village of Oak Lawn, the State of
Illinois or any other municipal corporation or political subdivision of the
State of Illinois. (Ord. 18-10-26)
9-4E-2: DEFINITIONS:
When any of the following words or terms is used in this article, it shall have
the meaning ascribed to it in this section:
FEE: Means the fee, charge, rate or other amount billed to a purchaser for
street rehabilitation. "Fee" does not include: a) any interest or penalties
related to a fee, or b) the tax imposed by this article, or any interest or
penalties related to the tax.
FINANCE DEPARTMENT: Means Oak Lawn Department of Finance.
PERSON: Means any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, municipal corporation or political subdivision of the State of
Illinois, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or other representative appointed
by order of any court.
PURCHASER: Means any person who purchases water or sewer service from the
regional water system.
REGIONAL WATER SYSTEM: Means Oak Lawn regional water system.
VILLAGE: Means the Village of Oak Lawn, Illinois. (Ord. 18-10-26)
9-4E-3: TAX IMPOSED:
Except as otherwise provided by this article, a tax is imposed upon the use or
consumption in the Village of water that is purchased from the regional water
system. The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is upon
the purchaser. (Ord. 18-10-26)
9-4E-4: RATE OF TAX:
   A.   For water use beginning on January 1, 2025, Section 9-4(E)-4 is hereby
amended to include a tiered tax based on water consumed or used as set forth
below. This tax shall be applied to each billing period.
      1.   0 to 9,000 gallons at a fixed amount of $7.70.
      2.   9,001 to 120,000 gallons at $1.55 per 1,000 gallons.
      3.   120,001 to 240,000 gallons at $2.09 per 1,000 gallons.
      4.   240,001 to 360,000 gallons at $3.05 per 1,000 gallons.
      5.   Over 360,000 gallons at $4.55 per 1,000 gallons. (Ords. 18-10-26,
21-01-10, 21-11-56, 24-21-82, 25-04-08)
9-4E-5: COLLECTION AND PAYMENT OF THE TAX:
The Finance Department shall collect the tax by billing it as a separately
stated item on its unified statement of charges to purchasers of water service.
The purchaser shall pay the tax to the Finance Department on or before the due
date of the Finance Department's first bill that includes the tax. A late
payment is subject to the regulations in section
9-4B-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-10-26)
9-4E-6: DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax imposed by this article,
including any interest or penalties related to the tax, shall be deposited in
the Village's General Fund and shall be used to meet the Village's ongoing
financial obligations. (Ord. 18-10-26)
CHAPTER 5
BROADBAND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM FRANCHISES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose
9-5-2: Definitions
9-5-3: Franchise Requirement, Authority Granted By A Franchise
9-5-4: Terms And Conditions For Each Franchise
9-5-5: Selection Of Grantees
9-5-6: Franchise Agreement
9-5-7: Franchise Fee
9-5-8: Nature Of The System
9-5-8-1: Technical Standards
9-5-8-2: Services
9-5-9: Construction Of The System
9-5-10: Operation And Maintenance Of The System
9-5-11: Rates And Charges
9-5-12: Records And Reports
9-5-13: Indemnification And Insurance
9-5-14: Reviews, Modifications, And Renewal Of The Franchise
9-5-15: Termination Of The Franchise By Reason Of Default
9-5-16: Insolvency Proceedings
9-5-17: Procedures Following Revocation Or Expiration Of Franchise
9-5-18: Hiring And Employment Practices
9-5-19: Prohibition Of Preferential Practices; Other Business Activities
9-5-20: Subscriber Privacy
9-5-21: Sanctions
9-5-22: Rights Reserved To The Village
9-5-23: Continuing Regulation And Administration By The Village
9-5-24: Disputes
9-5-25: Unlawful Acts
9-5-26: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for the granting of nonexclusive
franchises to construct, operate and maintain broadband communication networks
in the public ways of the Village to provide for the specifications, procedures
and standards for the same; to provide for the regulation of such networks; and
to provide for the payment to the Village for the privilege of exercising the
rights granted by such franchises. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, phrases and words and their derivatives shall have the
meanings specified herein:
AFFILIATES: Affiliates of another person shall mean:
   A.   Any person directly or indirectly owning, controlling, or holding with
power to vote, five percent (5%) or more of the outstanding voting securities
of such other person;
   B.   Any person five percent (5%) or more of whose outstanding voting
securities are directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or held with power to
vote, by such other person;
   C.   Any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under
common control with, such other person; and
   D.   Any officer, director, partner, copartner, or executive employee of
such other person.
ANNUAL GROSS REVENUES: All revenues received by the grantee, its affiliates,
and/or subsidiaries from and in connection with the operation of the Broadband
Telecommunications Network (BTN) in the Village, and all revenues generated by
such BTN or from the use of such BTN, including, but not limited to, retail
sales of personal property, data transmission, alarm or signal transmission,
advertising revenue, charges to subscribers for basic service, pay service,
two-way service, installation charges, and any and all revenue received from
any source whatsoever for use of the BTN for the transmission of electronic or
microwave impulses, provided that such revenue may lawfully be included in the
base on which the Village may calculate the franchise fee herein. Sales taxes
or other taxes or fees which are separately billed to subscribers by the
grantee or which are collected from subscribers for remittance to a
governmental agency or other third party are excluded from the term "annual
gross revenues".
BASIC SERVICE: The service package offered by the grantee to subscribers which
includes (but which is not necessarily limited to) the signals referred to in
subsection
9-5-8-2A of this Chapter and at least one Municipal access channel, at least
one educational access channel, and at least one public interest channel. If
more than one service package meets the foregoing conditions, then the service
package which is offered at the lowest rate shall constitute the basic service.
BOARD or VILLAGE BOARD: The Board of Trustees of the Village of Oak Lawn.
BROADBAND TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK (BTN): All of the component physical
operational and programming elements of any network of cables, optical,
electrical or electronic equipment, including cable television, designed,
constructed, wired or used for the purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying
and transmitting by coaxial cable, fiber optics, microwave or other means,
audio and/or audio/visual electrical impulses of television, radio and other
intelligences, either analog or digital, for sale or use by the inhabitants of
the Village, including, without limitation, antenna, cables, wires, lines,
towers, amplifiers, conductors, converters, equipment and facilities.
COMMENCE OPERATION: That time and date when operation of the BTN is considered
to have commenced, which shall be when sufficient distribution facilities have
been installed so as to permit the offering of full network service to at least
twenty percent (20%) of the potential subscribers in the franchise territory.,
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission and any legally appointed or elected
successor with respect to Federal regulation and licensing in connection with
the subject matter of this Chapter.
FRANCHISE: The nonexclusive rights granted pursuant to this Chapter to
construct and operate a Broadband Telecommunications Network along the public
ways within all or a specified area in the Village. Any such authorization, in
whatever form granted, shall not mean and include any license or permit
required for the privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within the
Village as required by other ordinances and laws of this Village.
FULL NETWORK SERVICE: Basic service and all pay services. The term does not
include two-way service.
GRANTEE: Any person receiving a franchise pursuant to this Chapter and under
the granting franchise ordinance, its present subsidiaries and affiliates, and
its lawful successor, transferee or assignee.
MAY: "May" is permissive.
PAY SERVICE: Any service package for which a monthly or other service change is
made.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, limited partnership, association,
organization, corporation or any lawful successor, transferee or assignee of
the same.
PUBLIC SCHOOL: Any public school, elementary, high, junior college, and
college, and any private school having a curriculum the same as ordinarily
given in public elementary, high, junior college or college and having no room
regularly used for housing or sleeping purposes.
REASONABLE NOTICE: Written notice addressed to the grantee at its office, which
notice shall be certified and post-marked not less than four (4) days prior to
the day in which the party giving such notice shall commence any action which
requires the giving of notice. In computing said four (4) days, Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays recognized by the Village shall be excluded.
SALE: Includes any sale, exchange, barter or offer for sale.
SERVICE PACKAGE: One or more communications channels which are offered as a
unit by the grantee to subscribers and for which a separately identifiable
charge is made.
SHALL and MUST: Each is mandatory and not merely directory.
STREET: Includes each of the following which have been dedicated to the public
or is hereafter dedicated to the public and maintained under public authority
or by others and located within the Village limits: streets, roadways,
highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, easements, rights of way, and
similar public ways and extensions and additions thereto, together with such
other public property and areas that the Village shall permit to be included
within the definition of street from time to time.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person receiving a service package.
SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED: Shall occur when sufficient distribution facilities
have been installed by the grantee so as to permit the offering of full network
service to at least ninety percent (90%) of the potential subscribers in the
franchise territory.
TWO-WAY SERVICE: Any service which involves the transmission of a signal from a
subscriber to a facility maintained by the grantee as part of the BTN. This
term includes (but is not limited to) fire, security and medical alert systems.
VILLAGE: The Village of Oak Lawn, a municipal corporation of the State of
Illinois. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-3: FRANCHISE REQUIREMENT, AUTHORITY GRANTED BY A FRANCHISE:
   A.   Franchise Required: No person shall construct, install, maintain or
operate on or within any street, any equipment or facilities for the
distribution of television signals or radio signals or other intelligences,
either analog or digital, over a BTN to any subscriber unless a franchise
authorizing the use of the streets has first been obtained pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter; and thereafter only while said person is legally
operating under the terms and provisions of said franchise.
   B.   Authority Granted: Any franchise granted hereunder shall give to the
grantee, subject to the provisions of this Chapter, the right and privilege at
its own expense, to construct, erect, operate, modify and maintain in, upon,
along, above, over and under the streets, such towers, antennas, cables,
electronic equipment, and other network appurtenances as are necessary for the
operation of a BTN in the Village. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-4: TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR EACH FRANCHISE:
   A.   Franchise Nonexclusive: Any franchise granted hereunder shall not be
exclusive. The Village reserves the right to grant other franchises to other
persons at any time or times.
   B.   Term of Franchise: Each franchise granted under this Chapter shall take
effect and be in force as provided herein for a term of fifteen (15) years from
the effective date as provided in subsection 9-5-5E, subject, however to the
right of the Village to terminate said franchise as provided herein.
   C.   Noninterference With Use of Streets: The right and privilege granted by
a franchise shall be exercised so as not to interfere with the use of the
streets by the Village and such others as may be designated by the Village to
use such streets, and the Village may demand the removal of any cables or
equipment as have been constructed by the grantee when the Village believes
that such is interfering with the use of the streets.
   D.   Transfer of Franchise:
      1.   No franchise granted hereunder may be sold, transferred, leased,
assigned or disposed of, whether by way of sale, merger, consolidation, or
otherwise, without in each case the prior written consent of the Village, and
then only under such conditions as the Village may establish. Such consent
shall not be unreasonably withheld.
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection D1 above, a franchise
may be mortgaged, pledged or assigned as security for the financing of the
related BTN. Such mortgage, pledge or assignment may be made without the
consent of the Village, but any such mortgage, pledge or assignment shall be
subject to the terms and conditions of the franchise and the related franchise
agreement and to the rights of the Village under this Chapter.
      3.   Reference is made to subsection I1 for the effect of changes in
ownership or control of the grantee and to subsection I2 for rules covering
control of a BTN by a financial institution.
      4.   Reference is made to Section
9-5-16 of this Chapter for transfers in connection with insolvency proceedings.
   E.   Franchise Territory: Each franchise granted hereunder shall relate to
the territorial limits of the Village, or such lesser area as may be designated
by the Village Board, and to any area henceforth added thereto during the term
of the franchise. Subject to Section
9-5-9 hereof, the grantee shall be required to extend the BTN to and to offer
the services of the BTN to potential subscribers within the franchise territory
where there are at least a total of forty (40) residential dwelling units and/
or occupied commercial or industrial structures per line mile.
Where the density of the residential dwelling and occupied commercial or
industrial structures, adverse terrain, or other factors render extension of
the system and offer of services impractical or technically infeasible or
creates an economic hardship, the Village may upon petition of the grantee
either waive the extension of the BTN into such areas, or allow the extension
and offer of services on such special terms, conditions and provisions as are
reasonable and fair to the Village, the grantee and potential subscribers in
such areas.
   F.   Privileges Must be Specified. No privilege or exemption shall be
granted or conferred by any franchise granted except those specifically
prescribed herein.
   G.   Obligations of Grantee to Obtain Other Permit: Any franchise granted
hereunder shall not relieve the grantee of any obligations involved in
obtaining pole or conduit space from any department of the Village, utility
company, or from others maintaining utilities in streets.
   H.   Franchise Binding: Any franchise granted hereunder shall be binding
upon the grantee, and all successors, lessees, or assignees as may be approved
by the Village.
   I.   Transactions Affecting Ownership or Control:
      1.   Express approval of the Village Board, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld, shall be required where ownership or control of more
than ten percent (10%) of the right of control of or interest in the franchise
or in the grantee is acquired by a person or group of persons acting in
concert, none of whom already own or control ten percent (10%) or more of such
right of control or interest singularly or collectively. Transfer from a
subsidiary to a parent corporation or vice versa shall not be considered change
of control.
At the time a franchise is granted hereunder, and annually thereafter, the
grantee shall file with the Village a current list of its owners, partners
(both general and limited), officers and directors, together with a list of
shareholders having five percent (5%) or more of its stock if the grantee is a
corporation.
      2.   Any financial institution having a pledge of, or other form of
security interest in a franchise, or in the assets of a grantee, for the
advancement of money for the construction and/or operation of the BTN, shall
notify the Village whenever it or its designee satisfactory to the Village
takes control and operates the BTN. However, such financial institution shall
also submit a plan for such operation that will insure continued service and
compliance with all franchise obligations during the term the financial
institution shall not exercise control over the BTN. The financial institution
shall not exercise control over the BTN for a period exceeding one year unless
extended by the Village Board in its discretion and during said period of time
it shall have the right to petition the Village to transfer said franchise to
another grantee. If the Village finds that any transfer, after considering the
legal, financial, character, technical and other public interest qualities of
the applicant, is satisfactory, the Village may transfer and assign the rights
and obligations of such franchise as in the public interest. The consent of the
Village to such transfer shall not be unreasonably withheld.
      3.   For purposes of this subsection I, the term "grantee" shall not
include any affiliate of such grantee. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-5: SELECTION OF GRANTEES:
   A.   Applications for a Franchise: Applications for an original franchise
granted hereunder shall be filed with the Village Manager and shall be
accompanied by the payment of a nonrefundable filing fee of five hundred
dollars ($500.00). Such applications shall contain written information which is
responsive to requirements established from time to time by the Board of
Trustees.
   B.   Acceptance of Certain Applications: Applications for a franchise which
were submitted to and accepted by the Village prior to May 21, 1980, shall be
deemed to be in compliance with subsection A above. The provisions for the
filing fee shall not be applicable to such applications.
   C.   Criteria For Evaluation of Applications: Applications for a BTN
franchise will be evaluated under the following criteria:
      1.   Experience: Preference may be given to applicants that can give
evidence of providing dependable and complete service to other communities and
who have established a record of excellent construction practices, ability to
meet deadlines, and good planning and marketing practices.
      2.   Financial Stability: Preference may be given to applicants that
present evidence of financial resources which will assure that the applicant
will have the ability to complete the entire BTN in the franchise area within
the time period set forth in subsection 9-5-9A herein.
      3.   System Design: Preference may be given to a system which contains
the flexibility to adjust to a new technological development and which
indicates that high quality equipment will be used and high quality maintenance
practices will be followed.
      4.   Services: Preference may be given to the applicant that proposes to
provide superior programming. In determining what constitutes superior
programming, particular consideration will be given to local origination and
the resources which an applicant proposes to devote to local origination in
order to make it interesting, innovative, and financially feasible.
      5.   Local Studio Facilities: Preference may be given to applicants that
propose to maintain studio facilities within the Village.
      6.   Rate Schedules: Preference may be given to applicants with the most
reasonable installation and subscriber rate schedules. However, such schedules
must be justified in financial pro forma statements by the use of realistic
levels of penetration.
      7.   Local Ownership And Control: The degree of local ownership and
control of an applicant may be taken into account.
The foregoing criteria are not listed in any order of priority.
   D.   Procedures For Granting A Franchise: If the village board determines
that a franchise should be granted hereunder, the board will then proceed as
follows:
      1.   The board shall, by motion, make a tentative selection of the
applicant. Such action shall not constitute the award of a franchise and shall
not confer any rights upon the applicant except to proceed in accordance with
this subsection D.
      2.   The proper officers of the village and the applicant shall discuss
the terms of the franchise agreement described in section
9-5-6 of this chapter.
      3.   If the village and the applicant reach agreement to the terms and
conditions of the franchise agreement, the agreement shall be presented to the
village board for approval and authorization for execution by the village
president.
      4.   The board shall then, by ordinance, grant a franchise to the
applicant.
   E.   Effective Date Of A Franchise: The effective date of a franchise shall
be the date on which the ordinance referred to in subsection D4 of this section
is adopted by the village board. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-6: FRANCHISE AGREEMENT:
   A.   Agreement Required: No franchise shall be granted hereunder unless the
applicant and the village have executed a franchise agreement which shall set
forth the terms and provisions of the franchise.
   B.   Contents Of Agreement:
      1.   Each franchise agreement shall contain the following express
representations by the grantee:
         a.   The grantee has carefully read the terms and conditions of this
chapter and the franchise agreement and accepts all of such terms and
conditions and agrees to abide by the same.
         b.   The grantee acknowledges that it has carefully read the terms and
conditions of this chapter and expressly waives any claims that any provisions
thereof are unreasonable or arbitrary or void, except as to those provisions
which are preempted now or hereafter by superseding provisions of federal or
state law, in accordance with subsection
9-5-22D of this chapter.
         c.   The grantee acknowledges that it has not been induced to accept
the franchise by any promise, oral or written, by or on behalf of the village
or by any third person, regarding any term or condition of this chapter or the
franchise agreement not expressed therein.
         d.   The grantee represents that no promise or inducement, oral or
written, has been made to any village employee or official regarding receipt of
the franchise.
      2.   In addition to those matters required to be included in the
franchise agreement by virtue of this chapter, the franchise agreement shall
contain such further conditions or provisions as may be included in the
grantee's proposal and/or negotiated between the village and the grantee,
except that no such conditions or provisions shall be such as to conflict with
any provisions of this chapter or other law. In case of such conflict or in
case of any ambiguity between any terms or provisions of the franchise
agreement and this chapter, the words of this chapter shall control. (Ord. 80-
14-27)
9-5-7: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   Franchise Payment: Each grantee of a cable operator franchise hereunder
shall pay to the village the cable/video service provider fee and the PEG
access support fee required by title 3, chapter 24 of this code. Such payment
shall be in addition to any other payment, charge, permit fee or bond owed to
the village by the grantee and shall not be construed as payment in lieu of
real property taxes levied by state, county or local authorities.
The amount of the franchise fee set forth in this subsection shall increase to
the highest rate that the grantee is paying any other municipality located
within fifty (50) miles from the village, provided the FCC has not prohibited
the payment of such rate to such other municipality. For the purposes of this
section, franchise fees payable by any affiliate, subsidiary, partnership, or
wholly owned corporation related to the grantee shall be deemed payable by the
grantee so as to trigger an increase in the amount paid to the village. Any
successor, lessee or assignee shall be bound by all rate increases and by the
provisions of this section.
The change in the amount of franchise fee shall go into effect on the date of
passage of an ordinance in the other municipality where the grantee, as
hereinabove defined, operates.
To facilitate the implementation of this section, the grantee shall, within
fifteen (15) days after their passage, send to the village a certified copy of
all ordinances granting to grantee, as hereinabove defined, a franchise within
fifty (50) miles from the village.
   B.   Method Of Computation: The fee payable under subsection A of this
section shall be computed on the basis of the grantee's fiscal year.
   C.   Partial Payments:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after the end of the first six (6) months of
each fiscal year of the grantee, the grantee shall make a partial payment of
the annual fee due for that year. Such partial payment shall be equal to the
maximum fee amount approved by the FCC, but not in excess of five percent (5%)
of the grantee's gross revenues for such six (6) month period. "Gross revenues"
for this purpose shall be determined in the same manner as annual gross
revenues.
      2.   The village and the grantee may agree to a greater number of partial
payments in each fiscal year by a provision therefor in the franchise
agreement.
   D.   Time Of Annual Payment: The payment of the amount required under
subsection A of this section shall be due not later than ninety (90) days after
the end of the fiscal year for which such payment is computed. Such payment
shall equal the amount determined under subsection A of this section, minus all
partial payments theretofore made under subsection C of this section.
   E.   Place Of Payment: All payments made under this section shall be made at
the office of the director of administrative services of the village during
normal business hours.
   F.   Certificates: Each payment made pursuant to this section shall be
accompanied by a certificate of an executive officer of the grantee to the
effect that the amount of the payment has been correctly determined in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   G.   Audit Rights: The village may at any time or times cause an audit to be
made of the grantee's books and records for the purpose of verifying the
correct amount of any payment required under this section. If such audit
discloses a deficiency in the amount paid of three percent (3%) or more of the
amount which should have been paid, the grantee shall pay forthwith to the
village upon demand the amount of such deficiency plus the cost of such audit,
subject, however, to the provisions of section
9-5-24 of this chapter concerning disputes.
   H.   Acceptance By Village: No acceptance of any payment by the village
shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim
the village may have for further or additional sums payable as a franchise fee
under this section or for the performance of any other obligation of the
grantee.
      1.   Failure To Make Required Payment: In the event that any franchise
payment or recomputed amount is not made on or before the dates specified
herein, grantee shall pay an interest charge, computed from such due date, at
the annual rate of ten percent (10%) per annum. (Ord. 80-14-27; 1985 Code; Ord.
07-25-84)
9-5-8: NATURE OF THE SYSTEM:
9-5-8-1: TECHNICAL STANDARDS:
   A.   General Requirements: Except to the extent to which the FCC has
preempted the field of technical standards, each BTN for which a franchise is
granted hereunder shall be designed, installed and operated so as to meet the
following general requirements:
      1.   The system shall be operationally capable of relaying to subscriber
terminals those television and radio broadcast signals for the carriage of
which the grantee is now or hereafter authorized by the FCC.
      2.   The system shall consist of a cable network having a minimum initial
forward bandwidth in compliance with the technical standards and rules of the
FCC; provided that if a reverse or feedback circuit is routed through a
subscriber's premises, it shall be connected so as to permit subscriber
notification and deactivation.
      3.   The system shall be capable of continuous twenty four (24) hour
daily operation.
      4.   The system shall be operated in such a manner as to avoid causing
interference with reception of off the air signals by nonsubscribers to the
network.
      5.   The system shall be designed, installed and operated so as to comply
with all applicable technical standards and regulations promulgated by the FCC.
      6.   The system shall be designed, installed and operated so as to assure
the delivery to all subscribers of standard color and monochrome signals on the
FCC designated class I television channels without noticeable picture
degradation or visible evidence of color distortion or other forms of
interference directly attributable to the performance of the BTN.
      7.   The system shall be established and constructed in accordance with
the highest standards of the art of cable communications and in accordance with
the highest standards of the code of conduct with respect to businesses of the
size and type of the grantee.
   B.   Performance Monitoring: Except to the extent to which the FCC has
preempted the field of performance monitoring, the following rules shall apply
to the grantee:
      1.   The performance of each BTN for which a franchise is granted
hereunder with respect to the standards set forth in subsection A of this
section shall be monitored in accordance with this subsection B.
      2.   Test procedures used in verification of the performance criteria set
forth herein, if not as set forth in paragraph 76.609, subpart K, of the FCC
rules and regulations, shall be in accordance with good engineering practice
and shall be fully described in an attachment to the annual certificate filed
with the village.
      3.   To the extent that the report of measurements as required above may
be combined with any reports of measurements required by the FCC or other
regulatory agencies, the village shall accept such combined reports, provided
that all standards and measurements herein or hereafter established by the
village are satisfied.
      4.   No later than thirteen (13) months after any new or substantially
rebuilt portion of the system is made available for service to subscribers, or
with such lesser period of time as may be required by the FCC from time to
time, technical performance tests shall be conducted by the grantee to
demonstrate full compliance with the technical standards of the FCC. Such tests
shall be performed by, or under the supervision of, a qualified registered
professional engineer or an engineer with proper training and experience. A
copy of the report shall be submitted to the village describing test results,
instrumentation, calibration, and test procedures, and the qualifications of
the engineer responsible for the tests.
      5.   The village may require additional tests on the basis of complaints
received or other evidence indicating an unresolved controversy or significant
noncompliance, and such tests will be limited to the particular matter in
controversy. The village will endeavor to so arrange its requirements for such
additional tests so as to minimize hardship or inconvenience to grantee or to
the subscriber.
   C.   Interconnections:
      1.   Whenever it is financially and technically feasible, the grantee
shall so construct and operate the network so that the network can be
interconnected into all other networks within the village.
      2.   Wherever it is financially and technically feasible, the grantee
shall so construct and operate the network so that the network can be
interconnected into all networks adjacent to the village. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-8-2: SERVICES:
   A.   Carriage Of Chicago Area Television Stations: Unless prohibited by
rules and regulations of the FCC, each BTN for which a franchise is granted
hereunder shall carry the signals of all television broadcast stations whose
specified zone includes the village.
   B.   Other Channel Requirements: Whether or not required by the rules and
regulations of the FCC, each BTN for which a franchise is granted hereunder
shall:
      1.   Have a minimum capacity of fifty two (52) channels;
      2.   Have the capacity for two-way active communications;
      3.   Provide at least one noncommercial access channel on which use by
educational agencies within the village shall have priority over all other
uses;
      4.   Provide at least one noncommercial access channel on which the
village shall have priority over all other uses;
      5.   Provide at least one noncommercial access channel on which public
interest programming, including, but not limited to, not for profit hospitals,
shall have priority over all other uses;
      6.   Provide at least one channel, the use of which is available to the
public on a leased basis.
   C.   Service Packages: Subject to the provisions of subsection D of this
section a grantee may offer service packages to subscribers or potential
subscribers in such number, description and content as the grantee shall
determine, provided that all service packages shall be offered on a
nondiscriminatory basis as provided in section
9-5-18 of this chapter.
   D.   Basic Service: Each grantee shall offer the "basic service" as defined
in this chapter. The basic service need not be offered by that name, insofar as
subscribers are concerned, but for purposes of this Chapter the service shall
be known as the basic service. The grantee shall not be required to provide the
basic service to a subscriber as a condition to the provision of other service
packages. The provisions of this subsection D shall not be construed as any
effort by the Village to regulate the program content of the basic service; the
only purpose of this subsection D is to insure that the basic service will be
offered to subscribers as one of the grantee's service packages.
   E.   Public Installations and Service Thereto:
      1.   The grantee shall connect the BTN to each public school, public
library, and such Municipal buildings as the Village may designate, without
charge for installation and maintenance of one basic cable outlet per
connection. Such installations shall be made within sixty (60) days of
completion of the cable trunk line that would serve those buildings.
      2.   Any service granted pursuant to subsection E1 above, may be extended
by the persons receiving such service to as many areas within the building
where the service is granted or its adjacent buildings which are a part of the
total complex receiving such service. The person receiving such service shall
pay all expenses for any such extension and shall complete such extension so as
not to interfere with the operation of the BTN.
      3.   The grantee shall provide, without charge, the basic service to each
installation made pursuant to subsection E1 above.
      4.   The Village shall have the right to install and maintain free of
charge upon the property of the grantee located at 9841 Central Avenue, Oak
Lawn, Illinois, its own equipment, including, but not limited to, a police and
fire system and emergency services and disaster agency, provided that such
equipment does not unreasonably interfere with the grantee's establishment,
construction, operation and maintenance of the BTN.
   F.   Emergency Alert Override: Each grantee shall incorporate into its
facilities the capability for a remotely activated emergency override alert
system whereby a designee of the Village, in times of emergency, may introduce
an audio and/or visual message on all BTN channels simultaneously. The Village
shall hold grantee harmless and indemnify grantee for liability resulting from
the emergency use of the BTN of the Village. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-9: CONSTRUCTION OF THE SYSTEM:
   A.   Construction Schedule:
      1.   Permits: Within thirty (30) days after the effective date of its
franchise, the grantee shall file with the appropriate governmental authorities
and with the necessary utility companies, all initial papers, applications,
contracts and other documents necessary to permit the commencement of
construction and operation of the BTN, and shall thereafter make diligent
efforts to obtain the proper execution and delivery of such documents. The
grantee shall report to the Village every thirty (30) days on its progress in
obtaining necessary permits, contracts and other necessary documents as
contemplated above, and on its construction progress as specified hereinafter.
      2.   Substantial Completion of Construction: Within twenty four (24)
months after the effective date of its franchise, the grantee shall have
substantially completed the BTN.
      3.   Mid-Way Completion of Construction: Within twenty (20) months after
the effective date of its franchise, the grantee shall have installed
sufficient distribution facilities so as to permit the offering of full network
service to at least fifty percent (50%) of the potential subscribers in the
franchise territory.
      4.   Commencement of Operation: Within sixteen (16) months after the
effective date of its franchise, the grantee shall commence operation.
      5.   Initiation of Services: Within ten (10) months after the effective
date of its franchise, the grantee shall have installed sufficient distribution
facilities so as to permit the offering of full network service to at least one
potential subscriber in the franchise territory.
      6.   Commencement of Construction: Within six (6) months after the
effective date of its franchise, the grantee shall commence construction of the
BTN.
   B.   Construction Standards:
      1.   Compliance with Safety Codes: All construction practices shall be in
accordance with all applicable sections of the Occupational Safety and Health
Act of 1970 and any amendments thereto as well as all State and local codes
where applicable.
      2.   Compliance with Electrical Codes: All installation of electronic
equipment shall be of a permanent nature, durable and installed in accordance
with the provisions of Title 6 of the Village Code.
      3.   Antennas and Towers: Antenna supporting structures (towers) shall be
designed for the proper loading zone as specified in Electronics Industry
Association's R.S. - 22A Specifications.
      4.   Construction Standards and Requirements: All of the grantee's plant
and equipment, including but not limited to the antenna site, heed-end and
distribution system, towers, house connections, structures, poles, wire, cable,
coaxial cable, fixtures and appurtenances, if and to the extent located within
the Village, shall be installed, located, erected, constructed, reconstructed,
replaced, removed, repaired, maintained, and operated in accordance with good
engineering practices, and such work shall be performed by maintenance
experienced and construction personnel so as not to endanger or interfere with
improvements the Village may deem proper to make, or to interfere in any manner
with the rights of any property owner, or to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct
pedestrian or vehicular traffic on Village properties.
      5.   Safety, Nuisance, Requirements: The grantee shall at all times
employ ordinary care and shall install and maintain in use commonly accepted
methods and devices preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause
damage, injury or nuisance to the public.
      6.   The grantee shall employ only such personnel as have necessary and
sufficient skill and experience or training as properly to perform their
respective jobs and positions.
   C.   Street Occupancy:
      1.   Grantee shall utilize existing poles, conduits and other facilities
whenever possible, and shall not construct or install new, different, or
additional poles, conduits, or other facilities on public property until the
written approval of the Village is obtained, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld. Grantee shall not acquire any vested interest in any
location for any pole or wire-holding structure, and such poles or structures
shall be removed or modified by the grantee at its own expense whenever the
Village determines that the public convenience would be enhanced thereby.
      2.   The facilities of the grantee shall be installed underground in
those areas of the Village where existing telephone and electric services are
both underground at the time of network construction. In areas where either
telephone or electric utility facilities are installed aerially at the time of
network construction, the grantee may install its facilities aerially with the
understanding that at such time as the existing aerial facilities are required
to be placed underground by the Village, the grantee shall likewise place its
facilities underground at its own expense.
      3.   The grantee shall notify the Village at least ten (10) days prior to
the intention of the grantee to commence any construction in any streets. The
Village shall cooperate with the grantee in granting any permits required,
provided such grant and subsequent construction by the grantee shall not unduly
interfere with the use of such streets and that the proposed construction shall
be done in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 1 of this Title, Streets,
Sidewalks, Public Ways.
      4.   All transmission lines, equipment and structures shall be so
installed and located as to cause minimum interference with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners and at all times shall be kept and
maintained in a safe, adequate and substantial condition and in good order and
repair. The grantee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install
and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing
failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances
to the public. Suitable barricades, flags, lights, flares, or other devices
shall be used at such times and places as are reasonably required for the
safety of all members of the public. Any poles or other fixtures placed in any
public way by the grantee shall be placed in such manner as not to interfere
with the usual travel on such public way.
      5.   Grantee shall, at its own expense and in a manner approved by the
Village, restore to Village standards and specifications any damage or
disturbance caused to the public way as a result of its operations or
construction on its behalf. Grantee shall guarantee and maintain such
restoration for a period of one year against defective materials or
workmanship.
      6.   Whenever, in case of fire or other disaster, it becomes necessary in
the judgment of the Village Manager, the Director of Public Works, the Fire
Chief, or the Police Chief, to remove or damage any of the grantee's
facilities, no charge shall be made by the grantee against the Village for
restoration and repair, unless such acts amount to gross negligence by the
Village.
      7.   Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees on public property at
its own expense as may be necessary to protect its wires and facilities,
subject to the supervision and direction of the Village.
      8.   The grantee, at its expense, shall protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate, or remove, any property of the grantee when in the
opinion of the Village Manager, the same is required by reason of traffic
conditions, public safety, street vacation, street construction, change or
establishment of street grade, installation of sewers, drains, waterpipes,
power lines, signal lines, transportation facilities, tracks, or any other type
of structure or improvement by governmental agencies, whether acting in a
governmental or a proprietary capacity, or any other structure or public
improvement, including (but not limited to) movement of buildings, renewal of
areas within the Village, and any general program under which the Village shall
undertake to cause all such properties to be located beneath the surface of the
ground. The grantee shall in all cases have the privilege, subject to the
corresponding obligation, to abandon any property of grantee in place. Nothing
hereunder shall be deemed a taking of the property of grantee, and grantee
shall be entitled to no surcharge by reason of anything hereunder.
      9.   Upon failure of grantee to commence, pursue or complete any work
required by law or by the provisions of this Chapter to be done in any street,
within the time prescribed and to the satisfaction of the Village Manager, the
Village Manager may, at his option, cause such work to be done and the grantee
shall pay to the Village the cost thereof in the itemized amounts reported by
the Village Manager to grantee, within thirty (30) days after receipt of such
itemized report.
      10.   The grantee shall make no paving cuts or curb cuts unless
absolutely necessary, and then only after written permission has been given by
the Village Manager.
      11.   The grantee shall install in conduit, all cables passing under the
roadway.
   D.   Letter of Credit: The grantee shall furnish to the Village an
irrevocable letter of credit in favor of the Village in a form approved by the
Village Attorney certifying that one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) is
and will remain available (until reduced in accordance with this subsection D)
at a sound and reputable banking or financial institution (selected by the
grantee and approved by the Village) authorized to issue such irrevocable
letter or credit. The irrevocable letter of credit shall be conditioned upon
the faithful performance by the grantee of its obligations under this Chapter
and the franchise agreement, including timely compliance with the construction
schedule set forth in subsection A of this Section, and shall be reduced in
accordance with the following table upon such timely compliance by the grantee:
 
                                        The dollar amount of the letter of
If the following construction phase is  credit required by this subsection D
timely completed by the grantee,        shall be reduced to
                                           the sum of:
Commencement of Construction (6 months  $100,000.00
after effective date of franchise)
Initiation of Services (10 months after 80,000.00
effective date of franchise)
Commencement of Operation
(16 months after effective date of      70,000.00
franchise)
Mid-Way Completion of Construction (20
months after effective date of          60,000.00
franchise)
Substantial Completion of Construction
(24 months after effective date of      50,000.00
franchise)
 
When the BTN has been substantially completed, the amount of the letter of
credit shall remain fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) and shall be renewed on
a yearly basis through the remainder of the term of the franchise, or any
renewal or extension thereof and upon the further condition that in the event
the grantee shall fail to comply with any law, ordinance or regulation
governing the franchise in a material fashion, there shall be recoverable from
the irrevocable letter of credit any damages or loss suffered by the Village as
a result, including the full amount of any compensation, indemnification or
cost of removal or abandonment of any property of the grantee, plus a
reasonable allowance for attorneys' fees and costs, up to the full amount of
the letter of credit.
The Village shall determine whether the grantee has satisfied the conditions of
the letter of credit in accordance with the standards and procedures set forth
in Section
9-5-15 of this Chapter. If no claim shall be made under such letter of credit
for five (5) consecutive years, the grantee shall be entitled to a return and
cancellation of the letter of credit. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-10: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE SYSTEM:
   A.   Repair: Any damage caused by the grantee's negligence shall be repaired
fully by the grantee.
   B.   Office and Phone for Service: The grantee shall maintain an office in
the Village which shall be open during all usual business hours, shall have a
locally listed telephone and shall be so operated that complaints and requests
for repairs or adjustments may be received at any time. Alternatively, the
franchise may designate an agent, who has an office in the Village, who is
authorized to receive complaints and requests for repairs or adjustments. In
addition, the grantee shall maintain a convenient service in the Village during
normal business hours for the receipt of sums due by its subscribers and shall
provide for regular billing of accounts.
   C.   Notification of Service Procedures: The grantee shall furnish each
subscriber at the time service is installed written instructions that clearly
set forth procedures for placing a service call, or requesting an adjustment,
or making a complaint or request.
   D.   Service Response Time: The grantee shall use its best efforts to
provide prompt service response for all complaints and requests for repairs or
adjustments. In no event shall response time exceed twenty four (24) hours
except in circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the grantee.
   E.   Service Interruptions and Notification: The grantee shall interrupt
system service after seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and before one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. only with good cause and for the shortest time possible, and except in
emergency situations, only after publishing notice of service interruption in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Village at least twenty four (24) hours
in advance of the service interruption. Service may be interrupted between one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. for routine testing,
maintenance, and repair, without notification, any night except Friday,
Saturday or Sunday, or the night preceding a holiday.
   F.   Request for Removal or Change:
      1.   The grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit issued under the provisions of Title 6, Chapter 10 of this
Village Code, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of said
building. The expense of such temporary removal, raising or lowering of wires,
shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the grantee shall have the
authority to require such payment in advance. The grantee shall be given not
less than fifteen (15) days' advance notice of any move contemplated to arrange
for temporary wire changes.
      2.   The Village shall notify the grantee at least ten (10) days prior to
the intention of the Village to commence any construction in the streets that
requires the relocation of grantee's lines, wires or other network
appurtenances so as not to interfere with such construction.
      3.   In the event that permanent use of a street is denied to the grantee
by the Village for any reason, the grantee shall provide service to affected
subscribers over alternate routes within a reasonable period of time.
   G.   Subscriber's Right to Cancel Service:
      1.   Any subscriber shall have the right to cancel any or all service
packages upon thirty (30) days' written notice to the grantee.
      2.   Upon termination of service to any subscriber, the grantee shall
promptly remove all of its facilities and equipment from the subscriber's
premises upon his request.
   H.   Abandonment of Service:
      1.   After grantee has established service pursuant to this Chapter in
the franchise area, such service shall not be suspended or abandoned in the
whole or any part of the franchise area unless the suspension or abandonment is
authorized in writing by the Village Board.
      2.   Whenever grantee shall file with the Village Board a written
application alleging that the public interest no longer requires that grantee
furnish service pursuant to this Chapter in the whole or in any part of the
franchise area, the Village Board may take evidence upon that question and make
a finding with respect to it. If the Village Board shall find that the public
interest no longer requires that the grantee furnish service, the Village Board
may authorize suspension or abandonment of service upon such reasonable terms
and conditions as may be prescribed by the Village Board. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-11: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Rates and Service Schedules: The grantee shall at all times maintain on
file with the Village a complete and current schedule showing all services
being provided under the grantee's franchise, the fees and charges for each of
such services, the charges for connections or disconnections, and any other
charges which may be made by the grantee in connection with the BTN. Such
schedule shall also show the components of the basic service and the pay
service, each on a channel-by-channel basis, the monthly charge for each
service package, and reasonably complete descriptions of each service package.
   B.   Initial Rates: The rates and charges initially charged by a grantee for
each of its service packages, as shown in the first schedule filed under
subsection A herein shall be the same as proposed in the grantee's application
for a franchise. Such rates and charges shall not be increased until the later
of the following dates:
      1.   The date which is thirty (30) months subsequent to the effective
date of the grantee's franchise, and
      2.   The date which is two (2) years after the grantee has at least one
subscriber for full network services.
   C.   Modification of Rates: After the later of the following dates:
      1.   The date which is thirty (30) months subsequent to the effective
date of the grantee's franchise, and
      2.   The date which is two (2) years after the grantee has at least one
subscriber for full network services. The grantee may modify its rates from
time to time by filing a revised schedule in accordance with subsection A
herein. Each rate adjustment and the establishment of a charge for a new or
different service shall become effective on the date designated by the grantee
in the schedule, provided, that such date may not be less than sixty (60) days
from the date on which the schedule was filed, and provided, further, that this
subsection C is subject to the provisions of subsection D below.
   D.   Regulation of Rates: It is the policy of the Village not to regulate
rates charged by the grantee for any of its services. However, the Village
expressly reserves the right to regulate the grantee's rates to the extent
permitted by law. At the time of each hearing conducted pursuant to subsection
9-5-14A, the Village shall consider whether to regulate rates. if the Village
determines at any of such times to regulate rates, this Chapter shall be
amended to provide for appropriate standards and hearings in order that such
rates may be fairly and equitably determined. Each franchise granted hereunder
shall be subject to the Village's right to amend this Chapter for the purpose
stated in this subsection D. Such right shall be exercised at the sole
discretion of the Village.
   E.   Disconnections: No charge may be made for disconnection from the BTN.
However, if a subscriber has failed to pay properly due monthly fees, or if a
subscriber disconnects for seasonal periods, the grantee may require, in
addition to full payment of any delinquent amounts, a reasonable fee for
reconnection to the system.
   F.   No Consideration Beyond Schedule: A grantee shall not receive any
consideration whatsoever for or in connection with its provision of service to
its subscribers other than as set forth in this Section or in the schedule then
on file with the Village.
   G.   Abatement of Charges: Upon subscriber's request, charges shall abate
pro rata in the event that service to a subscriber is interrupted for more than
forty eight (48) continuous hours for any reason whatsoever except interruption
caused by the subscriber. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-12: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Records Required: Each grantee shall at all times maintain:
      1.   A record of all complaints received and interruptions or degradation
of service experienced for the preceding three (3) years.
      2.   A full and complete set of plans, records and "as built" maps
showing the exact location of all BTN equipment installed or in use in the
Village (exclusive of subscriber service drops).
      3.   Financial records of the grantee in connection with its activities
within the Village maintained in a manner distinguishing revenues earned within
the Village from revenues earned by the grantee in other municipalities.
   B.   Reports Required: Each grantee shall file with the Village the
following reports:
      1.   Reports to be filed within ninety (90) days after the end of each
fiscal year of the grantee:
         a.   An "Annual Report of Cable Television Systems" (FCC Form 325,
Schedules 1 and 2)
         b.   An ownership report indicating all persons who at any time during
the preceding year controlled or benefited from an interest in the franchise of
ten percent (10%) or more. This report shall also include all creditors secured
by pledges or other form of security interest in the BTN and all unsecured
creditors whose claims in respect to the operation of the franchise in the
Village exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
         c.   A summary list of all complaints and requests, and BTN "down
time" received or experienced during the year; provided, however, the grantee
shall maintain for a period of at least three (3) years complete records
identifying the person making the complaint or request, the subject matter
thereof, and the resolution of the matter in question or the action taken by
the grantee.
         d.   A report showing or containing:
            (1)   The total number of hours of utilization of each of the
channels described in subsections B4, 5 and 6 of Section
9-5-8-2 herein.
            (2)   The number of persons subscribing to two-way service, and
            (3)   A brief statement indicating whether grantee is planning any
new services for the ensuing years as a result of technological development in
the cable television industry.
         e.   An annual report of the annual gross revenues of the grantee,
prepared, certified and audited by an independent public accountant to be
selected by the grantee and approved by the Village.
      2.   Reports or certificates to be filed promptly after the indicated
event occurs:
         a.   A copy of all petitions and applications filed or submitted by
the grantee with any governmental entity or agency having jurisdiction with
respect to any matter affecting the BTN or the grantee's undertakings with
respect to this Chapter.
         b.   Written evidence of the payment of each premium for each policy
of insurance required hereunder.
   C.   Documents Required: Each grantee shall file with the Village within
thirty (30) days after the end of each of such grantee's fiscal years a true
copy of the most current form of each of the following documents:
      1.   The letter of credit required hereunder.
      2.   All policies of insurance or certificates thereof required
hereunder.
      3.   All rules, regulations, and policy statements adopted by the grantee
in operating the BTN.
   D.   Filing: When not otherwise prescribed herein, all matters required to
be filed with the Village shall be filed with the Village Manager.
   E.   Inspection of Property and Records: At all reasonable times, grantee
shall permit examination by any duly authorized representative of the Village,
of all franchise property, together with any appurtenant property of grantee
situated within or without the Village. The grantee shall also permit any duly
authorized representative of the Village to examine and transcribe any and all
maps and other records kept or maintained by the grantee or under its control
concerning the operations, affairs, transactions or property of grantee. If any
of such maps or records are not kept in the Village, or upon reasonable request
made available in the Village, and if the Village Manager shall determine that
an examination of such maps or records is necessary or appropriate to the
performance of any of his duties, then all travel and maintenance expense
necessarily incurred in making such examination shall be paid by the grantee.
(Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-13: INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE:
   A.   Indemnification Agreement: The grantee hereby agrees to indemnify,
defend and save whole and harmless the Village and its officers, boards,
commissions, agents and employees from liabilities and related expenses
(including reasonable attorney's fees and the costs or liabilities of the
Village with respect to its employees) of any kind which may arise out of or
from the establishment, construction, operation and maintenance of the BTN or
the execution and implementation of this Chapter, or the granting of a
franchise to the grantee by the Village, or the exercise of or the enjoyment of
its franchise by the grantee. The Village shall notify the grantee in the event
any person shall in any way notify the Village of any claim or demand from
which the grantee may be subject to liability under this section or otherwise.
The undertaking of grantee in connection with this subsection A includes, but
is not limited to, liabilities or claims of liability with respect to property
damage, personal injury or death, invasions of the right of privacy, defamation
of any person, the violation or infringement of any copyright, trademark, trade
name, service mark or patent (including damages arising out of any failure by
the grantee to secure consents from the owners, authorized distributors or
licensees of programs to be delivered by the grantee's BTN), or to any other
right of any person, and failure of the grantee to comply with the provisions
of any Federal, State, or local statute, ordinance, rule or regulation
applicable to the grantee in connection with this Chapter or in connection with
its franchise. Without limitation of the foregoing, the undertaking of the
grantee in connection with this subsection A shall include, but not be limited
to, costs and expenses for accountant fees, expert witness and consultant fees,
court reporter fees, court costs, per diem expense, traveling and
transportation expense.
   B.   Insurance: The grantee shall keep the BTN continuously insured against
such risks as are customarily insured against by businesses of like size and
type, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Insurance upon the repair or replacement basis if available, and
otherwise to the full-insurable value of the BTN (with reasonable deductible
provisions) against loss or damage by fire and lightning, with uniform standard
extended coverage endorsement, limited only as may be provided in the standard
form of extended coverage endorsement at the time in use in the State.
      2.   Boiler explosion insurance on steam boilers, pressure vessels and
pressure piping in an amount not less than repair or replacement cost (with
reasonable deductible provisions), provided that such insurance need not be
taken out until the steam boilers, pressure vessels and pressure piping have
been installed in the BTN.
      3.   Insurance to the extent of two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) per
occurrence against liability for bodily injury including death and to the
extent of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence against
liability for damage to property including loss of use, occurring on, arising
out of or in any way related to the BTN. Such policy shall name as additional
insureds the Village, its officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees.
      4.   During any period of construction, adequate coverage to meet
liability under the Illinois Structural Work Act. 1
      5.   Workmen's compensation insurance within statutory limits and
employer's liability insurance of not less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00).
      6.   Comprehensive automobile liability insurance to the extent of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence against liability for bodily
injury including death and to the extent of three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) per occurrence against liability for damage to property including
loss of use occurring on, arising out of, or in any way related to the BTN.
This subsection B shall not be a limit on the grantee's undertaking provided in
subsection A. Such insurance shall be issued by a company or companies mutually
acceptable to the grantee and the Village in a form satisfactory to the
Village.
   C.   Notice of Cancellation or Reduction of Coverage: The insurance policies
referred to above shall contain a broad form contractual liability endorsement
and shall also contain the following endorsement:
"It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be cancelled nor
the amount of coverage thereof reduced until thirty (30) days after receipt by
the Village by registered mail of written notice of such intent to cancel or
reduce the coverage. (Ord. 80-14-27)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. ch. 48, §§60 et. seq.
9-5-14: REVIEWS, MODIFICATIONS, AND RENEWAL OF THE FRANCHISE:
   A.   Three-Year Reviews: On or about the third, sixth, ninth, and twelfth
anniversaries of the effective date of the franchise grant, the Village Board
shall schedule and hold a special meeting or meetings with the grantee to
review the performance by the grantee under the franchise, including future
plans of the grantee regarding operation and performance. In particular, the
Village may inquire whether the grantee is supplying a level and variety of
services equivalent to those being generally offered at that time in the
industry in comparable market situation. At such meeting, the Village Board may
consider whether the rates of the grantee should be regulated. The grantee
shall make available to the Village, if required by the Village, such records,
documents and information which are relevant to such meeting and inquiry.
   B.   Modifications Necessitated by FCC Regulations: Any changes in the
franchise agreement necessitated by the modifications in the FCC's regulations
shall be incorporated into the franchise agreement within the time limit or in
the Rules and Regulations of the FCC then in force and effect.
   C.   Franchise Renewal: At least six (6) months prior to the expiration of a
franchise, the Village shall schedule and hold a public meeting or meetings
with the grantee to review and discuss the performance of the grantee under the
franchise. The grantee shall make available, if requested by the Village, such
records, information and documents which are relevant to such meeting and
inquiry. The Village shall thereupon re-issue a franchise to the grantee unless
the Village Board determines that there is a compelling reason not to re-issue
such franchise. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-15: TERMINATION OF THE FRANCHISE BY REASON OF DEFAULT:
   A.   Grounds for Revocation: The Village reserves the right to revoke any
franchise granted hereunder and to rescind all rights and privileges associated
with the franchise in the following circumstances, each of which shall
represent a default and breach under this Chapter and the franchise agreement:
      1.   A default by the grantee in the performance of any of its material
obligations under this Chapter or under the franchise agreement or under any
documents, contracts, and other terms and provisions entered into by and
between the Village and the grantee pursuant to this Chapter.
      2.   A failure by the grantee to provide or maintain in full force and
effect the liability and indemnification coverages or the letter of credit as
required herein.
      3.   Frequent violations by the grantee of any orders or rulings of any
regulatory body having jurisdiction over the grantee relative to the franchise.
      4.   The grantee's complete cessation of services for any reason within
the control of the grantee over the BTN. However, the grantee shall not be
declared at fault or subject to any sanction under any provision of this
Chapter in any case in which performance of any such provision is prevented for
reasons beyond the grantee's control. Fault shall not be deemed to be beyond
the grantee's control if committed by a corporation or other business entity in
which the grantee holds a controlling interest, whether held directly or
indirectly. The provisions of this subsection A4 shall not be construed as any
effort by the Village to regulate the program content or program offerings of
the grantee; the only purpose of this subsection A4 is to insure that the
grantee does not voluntarily cease to provide services under its franchise.
      5.   Attempts by the grantee to evade any of the provisions of this
Chapter or of the franchise agreement, or the practice of any fraud or deceit
upon the Village or the subscribers.
      6.   The grantee fails to establish or construct the BTN in compliance
with the schedule in subsection
9-5-9A of this Chapter, or fails for a substantial time to provide effective
transmission and receiving services and capabilities to subscribers; provided,
however, that if such failure is due to strikes, war, civil commotions, acts of
God, or other causes constituting excusable negligence, the time for the
grantee to establish and construct the BTN or to meet any other time limit
imposed by this Chapter shall be extended by the amount of time of any delay
resulting from such causes. The period of delay shall be determined by the
grantee in writing with the consent of the Village, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
   B.   Procedures Prior to Revocation: If it appears to the Village Manager
that one or more grounds exist for revoking a grantee's franchise, the
following procedures shall then be followed:
      1.   The Village Manager may make a written demand that the grantee
comply with the requirement, limitation, term, condition, rule or regulation,
which the Village Manager believes to be applicable. The Village Manager shall
provide the Village Board with a copy of each such written demand.
      2.   If the failure, refusal or neglect of the grantee continues for a
period of thirty (30) days following such written demand, the Village Manager
may place a request for termination of the franchise upon the next regular
Board meeting agenda.
      3.   With or without compliance with the foregoing, the Village Manager
may cause to be served upon the grantee, reasonable notice in writing of his
intent to request a revocation of grantee's franchise. Such notice shall state
the time and place of the Board meeting and notice of such request shall be
published by the Village Clerk at least once during the four (4) day period
preceding the Board meeting in a newspaper of general circulation within the
Village.
      4.   The Board shall consider the request of the Village Manager and
shall hear any persons interested therein, and shall determine, in its
discretion, whether or not any failure, refusal, or neglect by the grantee was
with just cause.
      5.   If the failure, refusal or neglect by the grantee was with just
cause, the Board shall direct the grantee to comply within such time and
manner, and upon such terms and conditions, as are reasonable.
      6.   If the Board shall determine that such failure, refusal or neglect
by the grantee was without just cause, then the Board may, by motion, declare
that the franchise of the grantee shall be revoked and terminated and the
letter of credit forfeited, unless there is compliance by the grantee within
such period as the Board may fix. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-16: INSOLVENCY PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Right to Terminate Franchise in Case of Insolvency Proceedings: The
franchise herein granted shall, at the option of the Village Board, cease and
terminate one hundred twenty (120) days after the appointment of a receiver or
receivers or trustee or trustees, however denominated, designated to take over
and conduct the business of the grantee, whether in a receivership, re-
organization, bankruptcy or other action or proceeding, unless such
receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the expiration of
said one hundred twenty (120) day period, or unless both of the following
conditions are satisfied:
      1.   Such receivers or trustees shall have, within sixty (60) days after
their election or appointment, fully complied with all the terms and provisions
of this Chapter and the franchise granted pursuant hereto, and the receivers or
trustees within said one hundred twenty (120) days shall have remedied all
defaults under the franchise; and
      2.   Such receivers or trustees shall, within said sixty (60) days,
execute an agreement duly approved by the court having jurisdiction in the
premises, whereby such receivers or trustees assume and agree to be bound by
each and every term, provision and limitation of the franchise granted herein.
   B.   Right to Terminate Franchise in Case of Foreclosure or Judicial Sale:
In the case of a foreclosure or other judicial sale of the plant, property and
equipment of the grantee, or any part thereof, including or excluding the
franchise granted to grantee, the Village Board may serve notice of termination
upon the grantee and the successful bidder at such sale. In such event, the
franchise shall cease and terminate thirty (30) days after service of such
notice, unless:
      1.   The Village Board shall have approved the transfer of the franchise,
as and in the manner in this Chapter provided; and
      2.   Such successful bidder shall have covenanted and agreed with the
Village to assume and be bound by all the terms and conditions of the
franchise. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-17: PROCEDURES FOLLOWING REVOCATION OR EXPIRATION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Disposition of Facilities: If a franchise expires, is revoked, or is
otherwise terminated, the Village may order the removal of the network
facilities from the Village within a reasonable period of time as determined by
the Village.
   B.   Restoration of Property: In removing its plant, structures and
equipment, the grantee shall refill, at its own expense any excavation that has
been made by it and shall leave all public ways and places in as good condition
as prevailed prior to the grantee's removal of its equipment and appliances,
without affecting the electrical or telephone cable wires, or attachments. The
Village shall inspect and approve the condition of the public ways and public
places, and cables, wires, attachments and poles after removal. The liability,
indemnity and insurance as provided herein, and the letter of credit provided
herein, shall continUe in full force and effect during the period of removal
and until full compliance by the grantee with all the terms and conditions of
this subsection B and this Chapter.
   C.   Restoration by the Village; Reimbursement of Costs: In the event of a
failure by the grantee to complete any work required by subsection A and/or
subsection B, or any other work required by the Village ordinances within the
time as may be established and to the satisfaction of the Village, the Village
may cause such work to be done and the grantee shall then reimburse the Village
for the costs thereof within thirty (30) days after receipt of an itemized list
of such costs; or the Village may recover such costs through the letter of
credit provided by the grantee. The Village shall be permitted to seek legal
and equitable relief to enforce the provisions of this Section.
   D.   Extended Operation: Upon either the expiration or the revocation of a
franchise, the Village may (i) permit the grantee to continue to operate the
network for an extended period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the
date of such expiration or revocation; (ii) operate the network itself for such
period; or (iii) engage a third party to operate the network for such period.
Said person (hereinafter called the "interim operator") shall, as trustee for
grantee's successor in interest, use its best efforts to continue to operate
the cable television system under the terms and conditions of this Chapter and
the franchise and to provide services that may be provided at that time. During
such interim period, the interim operator shall not sell any of the system
assets nor shall the interim operator make any physical, material,
administrative or operational changes that would tend to degrade the quality of
service to the subscribers, or tend to decrease income, or tend materially to
increase expenses, without, in each case, express permission in writing of the
Village. The Village shall be permitted to seek legal and equitable relief to
enforce the provisions of this Section.
   E.   Village's Rights Not Affected: The termination and forfeiture of any
franchise shall in no way affect any of the rights of the Village under the
franchise or any provision of law, and the grantee shall continue to maintain
records and make reports as required by this Chapter until such time as all
payments due the Village under this Chapter have been paid and accounted for to
the reasonable satisfaction of the Village. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-18: HIRING AND EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES:
In the carrying out of the construction, maintenance and operation of the BTN,
the grantee shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for
employment because of race, creed, color, sex or national origin. (Ord. 80-14-
27)
9-5-19: PROHIBITION OF PREFERENTIAL PRACTICES; OTHER BUSINESS ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Services to be Equally Available: The grantee shall not, as to rates,
charges, services, rules, regulations, or in any other respect, make or grant
any preference or advantage to any person or subject any person to any
prejudice or disadvantage. This provision shall not be deemed to prohibit the
establishment of a graduated scale of charges and classified rate schedules to
which any customer coming within such classifications shall be entitled,
provided, such schedules have been filed with the Village as provided in
Section
9-5-11 nor shall it be deemed to prohibit the furnishing of service without
charge or at a reduced charge to the locations specified in subsection
9-5-8-2E.
   B.   Fairness of Accessibility: The entire network of the grantee shall be
operated in a manner consistent with the principles of fairness and equal
accessibility of its facilities, equipment, channels, studios and other
services to all citizens, businesses, public agencies or other entities having
a legitimate use for the network; and no one shall be arbitrarily excluded from
its use. Allocation of the use of said facilities shall be made according to
the rules or decisions of the grantee and any regulatory agencies affecting the
same.
   C.   Subscribers' Antennas: Grantee is expressly prohibited from requiring
the removal or from offering to remove or to provide any inducements for
removal of any potential or existing subscribers' antenna as a condition for
provision of service by the grantee.
   D.   Sale or Service of TV Receivers: During the period of the franchise,
neither the recipient of such franchise nor any of its affiliates,
subsidiaries, parent organizations, officers or directors or stockholders
holding ten percent (10%) or more of the outstanding stock of such recipient
shall, within the corporate limits of the Village or within ten (10) miles in
any direction, directly or indirectly, engage in the retail sale, rental or
repair of radio or television receivers, nor require, encourage or recommend to
any subscriber to purchase, rent, or lease radios or television sets at any
specific business which rents, leases or sells radios or television sets, or to
utilize the services of any special television or radio service business, for
the repair or maintenance of the subscribers receivers, either radio or
television, wherever located. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-20: SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY:
   A.   Use of Data From Subscriber: Neither the grantee nor any other person
shall initiate or use any form, procedure or device for procuring information
or data from subscribers' terminals by use of the BTN without prior
authorization from each subscriber so affected.
   B.   Subscriber Lists: The grantee shall not, without prior authorization
from each subscriber so affected, provide any list designating subscribers'
names or addresses to the Village or to any other party.
   C.   Subscriber Transmissions: Grantee shall not permit the installation of
any special terminal equipment in any subscriber's premises that will permit
transmission from subscriber's premises of two (2) way service without first
obtaining written permission of the subscriber. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-21: SANCTIONS:
Nothing shall prohibit the Village in enforcing its rules and regulations to
impose lesser sanctions or censures for violations of provisions of this
Chapter rather than revocation. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-22: RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE VILLAGE:
   A.   Eminent Domain: Nothing herein shall be deemed or construed to impair
or affect, in any way or to any extent, the right of the Village to acquire the
property of the grantee, either by purchase or through the exercise of the
right of eminent domain, at a fair and just value; and nothing herein contained
shall be construed to contract away or to modify or abridge, whether for a term
or in perpetuity, the Village's right of eminent domain.
   B.   All Legal Rights and Powers: There is hereby reserved to the Village
every right or power which is required to be herein reserved or provided by
law, and the grantee, by its acceptance of the franchise, agrees to be bound
thereby and to comply with any action or requirement of the Village in its
exercise of such rights or powers, whether heretofore or hereafter enacted or
established. Without limitation of the foregoing, the right is hereby reserved
to the Village to adopt and enforce in addition to the terms, conditions and
provisions contained in this Chapter and in otherwise existing applicable
ordinances, such additional ordinances, rules and regulations as it shall find
necessary in the exercise of its police powers; provided, that such ordinances,
rules and regulations shall be reasonable and not in material or substantial
conflict with the rights herein granted.
   C.   No Waiver: Neither the granting of any franchise nor any provision
hereof shall constitute a waiver or bar to the exercise of any governmental
rights or powers of the Village, subject to the rights of a grantee under its
franchise and the franchise agreement.
   D.   FCC Jurisdiction: If the FCC or any other Federal or State body or
agency shall now or hereafter exercise any paramount jurisdiction over the
subject matter of any franchise granted under this Chapter, then to the extent
such jurisdiction preempts or precludes the exercise of like jurisdiction by
the Village, the jurisdiction of the Village shall terminate; provided however,
the Village shall thereupon have the right to modify or amend any of the
provisions of this Chapter and of the franchise agreement to such reasonable
extent as may be necessary to carry out the full intent and purpose of this
Chapter.
   E.   Village's Contract Rights: The preemption or preclusion by the State of
Illinois of the exercise by the Village of any of its police powers shall not
diminish, impair, alter, or affect any contractual benefit to the Village or
grantee nor any contractual obligation of the grantee under any franchise
issued hereunder. Any and all rights, powers, privileges and authorizations
arising under this Chapter or any franchise agreement are each and all hereby
declared by the Village and any grantee accepting any franchise hereunder to be
contractual in nature and to be for the benefit of the Village.
   F.   Right to Make Rules and Regulations: There is hereby reserved to the
Village the right to impose rules and regulations, reasonably required, in
order to better carry out the purpose and intent of this Chapter. Before any
such rules and regulations are adopted, the Village shall give notice to the
grantee and afford the grantee an opportunity to be heard. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-23: CONTINUING REGULATION AND ADMINISTRATION BY THE VILLAGE:
   A.   Continuing Supervision by Village Board: The Village Board shall have
continuing supervision over the operation of any franchise granted hereunder.
Routine responsibilities in the administration of this Chapter and any
franchise agreement hereunder shall be performed by the Village Manager.
   B.   Responsibilities Of The Village Manager: The Village Manager shall have
the following responsibilities and duties, together with such other
responsibilities and duties that the Village Board may assign to him:
      1.   Review and audit all reports and filings submitted to the Village as
required hereunder and such other correspondence as may be submitted to the
Village concerning the operation of the BTN and review the rules and
regulations established by each grantee.
      2.   Assure that all rate schedules and rules pertinent to the operation
of the BTN are made available for inspection by the public at reasonable hours.
      3.   Confer and coordinate with each grantee on the interconnection of
the BTN with other similar networks.
      4.   Advise the Board on matters which might constitute grounds for
revocation of the franchise.
      5.   Conduct evaluations of the BTN at least every three (3) years.
      6.   Make recommendations to the Village Board for amendments to this
chapter. (Ords. 80-14-27, 90-6-24, 05-13-40, 17-15-56)
9-5-24: DISPUTES:
At the option of either the Village or the grantee, any matter in controversy
or dispute between the Village and the grantee may be submitted to arbitration
in all cases where the judgment of a court of law could be sought. This option
shall be exercised by serving written notice. Such arbitration shall be
conducted in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association.
(Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-25: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Unlawful Interception Of Communications: It shall be unlawful for any
person to make any unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically,
acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with any part of a grantee's BTN for
the purpose of enabling such person or any other party to receive any signal,
information or intelligence transmitted over the BTN, without payment to the
grantee of full amount properly due for such signal, information or
intelligence.
   B.   Unlawful Tampering With Equipment: It shall be unlawful for any person,
without the consent of the owner, to wilfully tamper with, remove, or injure
any cable, wires or other equipment used for the distribution of signals,
information or intelligence over a grantee's BTN.
   C.   Penalties: It shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any person to violate any of the
provisions of this section. (Ord. 80-14-27)
9-5-26: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Applicable Laws And Regulations: Each grantee, at its
expense, shall comply with all laws, orders and regulations of Federal, State
and Municipal authorities and with any directive of any public officer pursuant
to the law who shall legally impose any regulation, order or duty upon the
grantee with respect to the franchise.
   B.   Diligence By Grantee: Each grantee shall diligently apply for all
necessary permits and authorizations required in the conduct of its business,
and shall diligently pursue the acquisition thereof, including necessary pole
attachment agreements, and necessary authorizations from the Federal Aviation
Agency to construct such receiving antenna towers as may be required, and any
necessary authorizations or waivers from the FCC, and shall assist the Village
in filing its application to the FCC for waiver of franchise fee limitations.
   C.   Notification To Village Of Certain FCC Communications: Each grantee
shall not apply for any waivers, exceptions or declaratory rulings from the FCC
or from any other Federal or State regulatory agency without prior written
notification to the Village Manager.
   D.   Transfer Of Village's Rights, Powers And Duties: Any right or power in,
or duty impressed upon, any officer, employee, department, or board of the
Village shall be subject to transfer by the Village to any other officer,
employee, department or board of the Village.
   E.   Village's Rights Of Intervention: A grantee shall, at the sole risk and
expense of the grantee, upon demand of the Village made by the Village
Attorney, appear in and defend any and all suits, actions, or other legal
proceedings, whether judicial, quasi- judicial, administrative, legislative, or
otherwise, brought or instituted or had by third persons or duly constituted
authorities against or affecting the Village, its officers, boards,
commissions, agents, or employees, and which arise out of or pertain to the
exercise or the enjoyment of the grantee's franchise or the granting thereof by
the Village; provided, that neither grantee nor the Village shall make or enter
into any compromise or settlement of any claim, demand, cause of action,
action, suit, or other proceeding, without first obtaining the written consent
of the other.
   F.   No Waivers By Village: A grantee shall not be excused from complying
with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter or the franchise agreement
by any failure of the Village, upon any one (1) or more occasions, to insist
upon the grantee's performance or to seek grantee's compliance with any one (1)
or more of such terms or conditions.
   G.   No Recourse Against Village: Except as expressly provided otherwise in
this chapter, the grantee herein shall have no recourse whatsoever against the
Village for any loss, cost, or expense or damages arising out of the terms,
conditions and provisions or requirements of this chapter or because of the
Village's enforcement of this chapter.
The grantee expressly acknowledges that upon accepting the right, privilege and
franchise granted by this chapter, it did so relying upon its own investigation
and understanding of the power and authority of the Village in connection with
the BTN and this chapter. By the acceptance of this franchise, the grantee
agrees that it will not at any time set up against the Village in any claim or
proceeding any provision, condition or term of this chapter as unreasonable,
arbitrary or void or that the Village had no power or authority to make such
provision, term or condition as part of this chapter, except as to those
matters preempted by Federal or State law.
   H.   New Developments: The Village Board may amend this chapter or the
franchise agreement whenever necessary to enable the grantee to take advantage
of any developments in the field of transmission of communications signals
which will afford it an opportunity to more effectively, efficiently or
economically serve its customers; provided, however, that this subsection H
shall not be construed to require the Village to make any such amendment.
   I.   Construction Of Chapter: This chapter shall be construed and
interpreted according to the following principles:
      1.   All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of
this chapter are hereby repealed.
      2.   Words in the present tense include the future.
      3.   Words importing the singular number may extend to and include
plural, words importing the plural number may extend to and include the
singular, and words in masculine gender shall include female gender.
      4.   The specification in this section of principles to apply in the
construction and interpretation of this chapter shall not be a limitation as to
other applicable principles.
      5.   Whenever this chapter shall set forth any time for any act to be
performed by or on behalf of the grantee, such time shall be deeded of the
essence and any failure of the grantee to perform within time allotted shall
always be sufficient grounds for the Village to terminate, cancel and revoke
the grant or use other remedies.
   J.   Reimbursement Of Village Expenses: In connection with the grant of all
franchises, each successful grantee shall reimburse to the Village all actual
expenses incurred by the Village in granting a cable TV franchise, including
expenses incurred for legal services and consultants. Upon receipt of all such
excuses, the Village Manager shall transmit to grantee an itemized listing of
all such expenses and the grantee shall then reimburse Village within thirty
(30) days after receipt such listing. (Ord. 80-14-27)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTRIC AGGREGATION PROGRAM
SECTION:
9-6-1: Electrical Aggregation Plan Of Operation And Governance
9-6-1: ELECTRICAL AGGREGATION PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE:
   A.   The corporate authorities of the village of Oak Lawn hereby are
authorized to aggregate in accordance with the terms of the act residential and
small commercial retail electrical loads located within the corporate limits of
the village, and for that purpose may solicit bids and enter into service
agreements to facilitate for those loads the sale and purchase of electricity
and related services and equipment.
   B.   The corporate authorities of the village of Oak Lawn are granted the
authority to exercise such authority jointly with any other municipality or
county and, in combination with two (2) or more municipalities or counties, may
initiate a process jointly to authorize aggregation by a majority vote of each
particular municipality or county as required by the act.
   C.   The aggregation program for the village of Oak Lawn shall operate as an
opt out program for residential and small commercial retail customers with a
single rate for all customer classes.
   D.   The aggregation program shall be approved by a majority of the members
of the corporate authority of the village of Oak Lawn.
   E.   The corporate authorities of the village with the assistance from the
Illinois power agency and progressive energy group shall develop a plan of
operation and governance for the aggregation program and shall conduct such
public hearings and provide such public notice as required under the act. The
load aggregation plan shall provide for universal access to all applicable
residential customers and equitable treatment of applicable residential
customers, shall describe demand management and energy efficiency services to
be provided to each class of customers and shall meet any requirements
established by law concerning aggregated service offered pursuant to the act.
   F.   As an opt out program, the corporate authorities of the village of Oak
Lawn shall fully inform residential and small commercial retail customers in
advance that they have the right to opt out of the aggregation program. The
disclosure and information provided to the customers shall comply with the
requirements of the act.
   G.   The electric aggregation shall occur automatically for each person
owning, occupying, controlling, or using an electrical load center proposed to
be aggregated in the corporate limits of the village of Oak Lawn, subject to a
right to opt out of the program as described under this section and the act.
   H.   The corporate authorities of the village of Oak Lawn hereby grant the
village president or his designee in writing the specific authority to execute
a contract without further action by the corporate authorities and with the
authority to bind the village with the following limitations:
      1.   A term no longer than thirty six (36) months.
      2.   With an electric price at least ten percent (10%) lower than ComEd
tariffed rates in the June 1, 2012 through May 31, 2013 time frame.
      3.   With a term that the winning electric supplier must match any ComEd
tariffed rate, or allow village residents and small businesses to revert back
to ComEd tariffed rates if the ComEd tariffed rates are ever lower than the
contracted price.
      4.   Winning electric supplier must utilize ComEd as the billing/
invoicing agent.
      5.   The contract contains no early termination fees.
      6.   Village is to be reimbursed for administrative and legal fees up to
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 12-23-73)
TITLE 10
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Composition, General Duties Of Department
10-1-2: Officers And Employees Of Department
10-1-3: Divisions Of Department
10-1-4: Compensation
10-1-5: Police Training Program
10-1-6: Police Pension Fund
10-1-7: Requirements And Restrictions On Department Members
10-1-8: Duty To Assist Police
10-1-9: DUI Emergency Response Fees
10-1-10: Handi-Cop Program
10-1-1: COMPOSITION, GENERAL DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
The police department of the village shall consist of such policemen as may be
appointed. It shall be the duty of each member of the police force to enforce
all orders relative to the preserving of the peace, health and good order and
quiet of the village, and to prosecute all violations of this code and the
ordinances of the village. (1951 Code 3-1; Ords. 68-29-92, 89-16-44)
10-1-2: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Chief Of Police:
      1.   Appointment, Term: The village manager is authorized to appoint,
suspend or discharge the chief of the police department without the consent of
the board of trustees.
      2.   General Duties: The chief of police shall be the keeper of the
village jail, and shall have custody of all persons incarcerated therein. He
shall keep such records and make such reports concerning the activities of his
department as may be required by statute or by the village board. The chief
shall be responsible for the performance by the police department of all its
functions.
   B.   Marshals: In cases of emergency and in order to do all things necessary
to preserve the peace of the village, the president, with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees, may appoint as many marshals as he shall deem
necessary. Such marshals shall be under the jurisdiction of the chief of police
during the term of their hiring.
   C.   Police Matron: A police matron shall, when necessary, be appointed
according to law. Her duties shall be to assume charge of all female prisoners
who may be in custody.
   D.   Code Enforcement Officer: The code enforcement officer shall be a
civilian, nonsworn officer of the police department and shall be employed for a
maximum of thirty five (35) hours a week as a part time employee.
      1.   Appointment, Term: The chief of police is authorized to appoint,
suspend or discharge the code enforcement officer without the consent of the
board of trustees.
      2.   General Duties: The code enforcement officer shall particularly
enforce village parking regulations, but shall also enforce any other village
ordinances as assigned by the chief of police and shall in relation to said
enforcement, be empowered to issue citations and tickets for violations of this
code.
   E.   Deputy Police Chief: There is hereby established the position of deputy
police chief of the police department. The chief of police shall have the
authority to appoint an individual from the rank of sergeant or above within
the police department to the position of deputy police chief, which shall be an
exempt rank and unclassified position. The individual so appointed to this
position shall receive such extra compensation for the duties of this position
in an amount set, from time to time, by the village board of trustees in the
annual salary ordinance, or as recommended by the police chief and approved by
the village board of trustees.
If a member of the police department is appointed as the deputy police chief
prior to becoming eligible to retire on pension, he or she shall be considered
as if on furlough from the rank he or she held prior to the appointment. If the
deputy police chief resigns, or is discharged as deputy police chief, he or she
may revert to and be established in such prior rank, and thereafter be entitled
to all benefits and emoluments of such prior rank at the discretion of the
chief of police. The village board, by ordinance, and consistent with the
Illinois Compiled Statutes, may prescribe the duties, define the powers, and
fix the term of appointment. The term of office shall be in accordance with the
Illinois Compiled Statutes and at the discretion of the chief of police. The
position of deputy chief of police is specifically exempt from the provisions
of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-1 et seq. (1951 Code 3-2, 3-3, 3-5,
17-1-9; Ord. 68-25-70; 1985 Code; Ords. 87-12-47, 89-13-30, 92-02-10, 92-08-32,
93-5-13, 94-21-96)
10-1-3: DIVISIONS OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Divisions Created, Composition: There are hereby created the following
three (3) divisions of the police department:
      Detective and juvenile division
      Service and training division
      Uniform division
Each division shall consist of one lieutenant and such subordinates as the
chief of police may determine are needed to efficiently carry on the duties and
functions of the respective divisions.
   B.   Assignment Of Personnel To Divisions; Duties And Functions: The chief
of police shall assign the respective lieutenants to each of the divisions as
he may consider qualified by experience and training to properly perform the
duties and functions of the respective divisions. Each division shall perform
such duties and functions as may be assigned and prescribed by the chief of
police. (1951 Code 3-3A; Ord. 65-21-3; 1985 Code)
10-1-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Generally: The chief of police and other police officers shall receive
for their services amounts to be fixed by the village board from time to time.
   B.   Marshals: No marshal shall receive any compensation unless on duty by
special order or direction of the chief of police, or in case of emergency, if
ordered to perform duties. The compensation for services as a marshal shall be
prescribed by the village board. (1951 Code 3-7, 3-12)
10-1-5: POLICE TRAINING PROGRAM:
   A.   Election To Participate In State Program: The village hereby elects to
participate in the program provided for in the Illinois police training act,
being 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/1 et seq.
   B.   Certification Required: Before an individual may commence regular
employment as a policeman, he must have been certified by the Illinois local
governmental law enforcement officers training board as having successfully
completed an approved training course as provided by law.
   C.   Completion Of Training Required: Such basic training must be completed
by the trainee within his probationary period of twelve (12) months and
specifically within six (6) months of the date of his initial employment.
   D.   Amendment Of Rules Required: The police department is hereby instructed
and directed to make the necessary amendments to the personnel rules, the
manual of rules of the Oak Lawn police department, and rules of the board of
police and fire commissioners 1 , requiring that any person appointed to the
police department of the village pursuant to the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-29, and the said Illinois police training act, shall
not become a regular member of the police department until and unless he shall
have completed the approved training course within six (6) months of the date
of his initial employment. (Ords. 66-28-77, 75-36-126)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 6 of this code.
10-1-6: POLICE PENSION FUND:
   A.   Fund Created 1 : There is hereby created a police pension fund in and
for the village for the purpose of providing pensions for members of the police
department under the terms and regulations hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Financing: The board of trustees shall annually levy a tax upon all the
taxable property of the village at the rate on the dollar which will produce an
amount which, when added to the deductions from the salaries or wages of
policemen and receipts available from all other sources as hereinafter referred
to, will equal a sum sufficient to meet the annual requirements of the police
pension fund. The annual requirements to be provided by such tax levy shall be
equal to the reserve prescribed by 40 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-127. The
tax shall be levied and collected in like manner with general taxes of the
village, and shall be in addition to all other taxes now or hereafter
authorized to be levied upon all property within the village, and shall be in
addition to the amount authorized to be levied for general purposes as provided
by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-3-1.
The police pension fund shall consist of the following monies which shall be
set apart by the treasurer of the village:
      1.   All monies derived from the taxes levied hereunder.
      2.   Beginning July 1, 1909, and prior to July 23, 1943, one percent (1%)
of the salary of each policeman (except that prior to July 1, 1921, not more
than $1.00 per month shall be deducted, and except that beginning July 1, 1921,
and prior to July 1, 1927, not more than $2.00 per month shall be deducted),
and beginning July 23, 1943, and prior to July 20, 1949, three percent (3%) of
salary, and beginning July 20, 1949, and prior to July 17, 1959, five percent
(5%) of salary, and beginning July 17, 1959, seven percent (7%) of salary. Such
sums shall be paid or deducted monthly.
      3.   All monies accumulated by the village under any previous legislation
establishing a fund for the benefit of disabled or superannuated policemen.
      4.   Any donations, gifts or other transfers referred to in 40 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq.
   C.   Applicability Of Section: This section is applicable to all policemen
of the village who meet the qualifications set forth in 40 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-101 et seq.
   D.   Persons Eligible For Benefits: All policemen and widows or dependents
who qualify under 40 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq., are eligible
for benefits from the fund. (1951 Code 3-26, 3-27, 3-28, 3-30, 3-32)
 
Notes
1 2. 40 ILCS 5/3-101.
10-1-7: REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS ON DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
   A.   Deliver Prisoners For Trial: In all cases where arrests shall be made,
it shall be the duty of the police officer making the same to take the person
so arrested before the court for trial.
   B.   Preservation Of Order At Polls; Political Activity Prohibited: On all
general and special election days, it shall be the duty of the public officers
or marshals to preserve order at the polls, but in no case shall they interfere
for or against any candidate at any such election.
   C.   Service Of Process: No member of the police department, except the
chief, shall serve any process except on command of the chief of police.
   D.   Frequenting Saloons, Playing Games On Duty: Every police officer and
marshal is hereby prohibited, when on duty, from spending his time in saloons
or public houses, or playing pool, cards, or any other games in such places.
(1951 Code 3-4, 3-6, 3-12)
10-1-8: DUTY TO ASSIST POLICE:
It shall be the duty of any person in the village, when called upon by any
member of the police department, to promptly aid and assist him in the
execution of his police duties. (1951 Code 3-8)
10-1-9: DUI EMERGENCY RESPONSE FEES:
The following costs and charges are hereby established as the village's costs
and charges relative to emergency responses in regard to DUI cases:
 
Emergency Response                 Cost 
(Per Hour Per Vehicle)
Each on scene police officer/squad $47.50
 
(Ord. 17-06-14)
10-1-10: HANDI-COP PROGRAM:
The chief of police is hereby authorized to institute a "handi-cop program"
whereby handicapped individuals may volunteer to assist the police department
in handicapped parking enforcement by taking photographs of motor vehicles
which are illegally parked in handicapped parking places. Prior to instituting
such a program, the chief of police shall prepare a detailed plan for
implementation of the program. Said plan shall include, but not be limited to,
detailed provisions in regard to the screening, training and monitoring of the
volunteer participants. In addition, said plan shall provide that all
volunteers be required to execute an "indemnification of, and waiver and
release of claims against, the village of Oak Lawn" form prior to participating
in the program. The plan, as prepared by the chief of police, shall be approved
by the president and board of trustees prior to the implementation of any such
"handi-cop program". (Ord. 92-08-31)
CHAPTER 2
PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Short Title
10-2-2: Definition
10-2-3: Exceptions
10-2-4: Permits Required, Contents
10-2-5: Application for Permit; Fee
10-2-6: Standards for Issuance of Permit
10-2-7: Action on Application; Procedure Upon Denial
10-2-8: Revocation of Permit
10-2-9: Notice to Village Officers of Permit Issuance
10-2-10: Compliance With Permit, Regulations
10-2-11: Duty to Carry Permit
10-2-12: Prohibitions and Restrictions
10-2-13: Penalty
10-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known, cited and enforced as the "Parade Ordinance".
(Ords. 68-3-2, 68-12-33)
10-2-2: DEFINITION:
As used in this Chapter, "parade" means any parade, march, ceremony, show,
exhibition, pageant, demonstration, or procession of any kind, or any similar
display in or upon any street, park or other public place in the Village.
(Ords. 68-3-2, 68-12-33)
10-2-3: EXCEPTIONS:
This Chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Funeral processions;
   B.   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing such conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
   C.   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions. (Ords.
68-3-2, 68-12-33)
10-2-4: PERMITS REQUIRED, CONTENTS:
   A.   Permits:
      1.   Parades: No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade, unless a parade permit shall have been obtained from the
President and Board of Trustees.
      2.   Public Assemblies: No open air public meeting, sit-in, camp-in, or
demonstration of ten (10) or more persons shall be held on any public grounds
in the Village until a permit in writing therefor shall first be obtained. The
relevant provisions of this Chapter regarding permits or regulations of parades
shall apply to open air public meetings and/or demonstrations.
   B.   Contents of Parade Permit: Each parade permit shall state the following
information:
      1.   Starting time;
      2.   Minimum speed;
      3.   Maximum speed;
      4.   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
      5.   The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by
the parade;
      6.   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
      7.   Such other information as the Chief of Police shall find necessary
to the enforcement of this Chapter. (Ords. 68-3-2, 68-12-33; 1985 Code)
10-2-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   Application Required; Fee: A person seeking issuance of a parade permit
shall file an application with the President and Board of Trustees on forms
provided by such officer. There shall be paid at the time of filing the
application for a parade permit a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), which fee
requirements shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Federally chartered war veterans' organizations;
      2.   Religious, civic or social groups of the Village.
   B.   Time for Filing Permit Application:
      1.   An application for a parade permit shall be filed with the Chief of
Police not less than thirty (30) days nor more than forty five (45) days before
the date on which it is proposed to conduct the parade.
      2.   The Chief of Police, where good cause is shown therefor, shall have
the authority to consider any application hereunder which is filed less than
thirty (30) days before the date such parade is proposed to be conducted.
   C.   Contents of Application: The application for a parade permit shall set
forth the following information:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade.
      2.   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads of such
organization.
      3.   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be the
parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct.
      4.   The date when the parade is to be conducted.
      5.   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point.
      6.   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles
which, will constitute such parade; the type of animals and description of the
vehicles.
      7.   The hours when such parade will start and terminate.
      8.   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed.
      9.   The location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade.
      10.   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at any
such assembly area or areas.
      11.   The interval of space to be maintained between units of such
parade.
      12.   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of, or for
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit shall file
with the Chief of Police a communication in writing from the person proposing
to hold the parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his
behalf.
      13.   Any additional information which the Chief of Police shall find
reasonably necessary in a fair determination as to whether a permit should
issue. (Ords. 68-3-2, 68-12-33; 1985 Code)
10-2-6: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The Chief of Police shall issue a permit as provided for hereunder when, from a
consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he finds that:
   A.   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route.
   B.   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the Village to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the Village.
   C.   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
Village other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto.
   D.   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly areas.
   E.   The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of
emergency vehicles.
   F.   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury to
persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance.
   G.   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
   H.   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods or event, and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit.
In order to comply to the standard of this Section, the Chief of Police may
issue the permit subject to additional restrictions as to interference between
marchers, compliance with traffic-control signals and the directions of
officers controlling traffic and pedestrian movements. (Ords. 68-3-2, 68-12-33)
10-2-7: ACTION ON APPLICATION; PROCEDURE UPON DENIAL:
   A.   Action, Notice of Denial: The Chief of Police shall act upon the
application for a parade permit within five (5) days after the filing thereof.
If the Chief of Police disapproves the application, he shall mail to the
applicant within five (5) days after the date upon which the application was
filed, a notice of his action, stating the reasons for his denial of the
permit.
   B.   Appeal From Permit Denial: Any person aggrieved shall have the right to
appeal the denial of a parade permit to the President and Board of Trustees,
which appeal shall be taken within ten (10) days after notice. The President
and Board of Trustees shall act upon the appeal within fourteen (14) days after
its receipt.
   C.   Alternative Permits Authorized; Acceptance: The Chief of Police, in
denying an application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the
conduct of the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different from that
named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit
shall, within five (5) days after notice of the action of the Chief of Police,
file a written notice of acceptance with the Chief of Police. An alternate
parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect
of a parade permit under this Chapter. (Ords. 68-3-2, 68-12-33)
10-2-8: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The Chief of Police shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued
hereunder upon application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth 1
. (Ords. 68-3-2, 68-12-33)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-6 of this Code for permit revocation procedure.
10-2-9: NOTICE TO VILLAGE OFFICERS OF PERMIT ISSUANCE:
Immediately upon the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following:
   Chief of Police
   Director of Public Works
   Fire Department
(Ords. 68-3-2, 68-12-33; 1985 Code)
10-2-10: COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT, REGULATIONS:
A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. (Ords. 68-3-2, 68-12-33)
10-2-11: DUTY TO CARRY PERMIT:
The parade chairman or other person heading or leading such activity shall
carry the parade permit upon his person during the conduct of the parade.
(Ords. 68-3-2, 68-12-33)
10-2-12: PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Interfering With Parades, Assemblies: No person shall unreasonably
hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade or parade assembly, open-
air public meeting, or with any person, vehicle or animal participating or used
in a parade.
   B.   Driving Through Parades: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the
vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in
motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade.
   C.   Parking On Parade Routes: The Chief of Police shall have the authority,
when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles
along a highway or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade.
The Chief shall post signs to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation hereof. No person
shall be liable for parking on a street unposted in violation of this Chapter.
(Ords. 68-3-2, 68-12-33)
10-2-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating or failing to comply with any provision of this Chapter
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ords. 68-3-2, 68-12-33, 99-
5-11)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. ANIMALS AND FOWL
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Cruelty To Animals
10-3A-2: Running At Large Prohibited
10-3A-3: Wild Animal Exhibitions, Permit Regulations
10-3A-4: Keeping Certain Animals Prohibited
10-3A-5: Keeping, Selling Live Poultry
10-3A-6: Diseased Animals
10-3A-7: Beehives, Requirements For Maintaining
10-3A-8: Hunting
10-3A-9: Poisoning Animals
10-3A-10: Offensive Premises, Animal Wastes
10-3A-11: Total Number Of Four Legged Animals
10-3A-12: Inoculation Of Cats And Ferrets
10-3A-1: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
Whoever shall be guilty of cruelty to any animal in any of the ways mentioned
in this section, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00):
   A.   By overloading, overdriving, overworking, cruelly beating, torturing,
tormenting, mutilating, or cruelly killing any animal, or causing or knowingly
allowing the same to be done.
   B.   By cruelly working any old, maimed, infirm, sick or disabled animal, or
causing, or knowingly allowing the same to be done.
   C.   By unnecessarily failing to provide any animal in his charge or
custody, as owner or otherwise, with proper food, drink and shelter.
   D.   By abandoning any old, maimed, infirm, sick or disabled animal or by
abandoning any animal on any highway or public way or in any other place where
it may suffer injury, hunger or exposure or become a public charge.
   E.   By carrying or driving, or causing to be carried or driven or kept, any
animal in an unnecessarily cruel manner.
   F.   By selling, offering for sale, bartering or giving away living baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowls as pets or novelties when such fowl have been
dyed, colored or otherwise treated to impart an artificial color to them.
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit the sale of natural
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or their display in proper brooder facilities
by hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of selling them for commercial
purposes 1 .
Humane officers, police officers, sheriffs and health officers shall seize all
fowl which are sold, bartered or given away or offered for sale, barter or gift
in violation of this subsection and provide the necessary care and attention
for them. Such fowl or pets shall not be returned to the owner until all
expenses for such care and attention have been paid.
   G.   By keeping or using, or in any way being connected with or interested
in the management of, or receiving money for the admission of any person to any
place kept or used for the purpose of fighting or baiting any bull (bullbaiting
is interpreted to include a bloodless or mock bullfight), bear, dog, cock or
other creature. Every person who shall visit such place so kept or used, or who
shall be found therein, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   H.   By using or permitting the use of any leg hold animal trap or similar
device with spring activated jaws of the type used for the trapping of
furbearing animals which is capable of inflicting cruelty upon dogs, cats or
other animals, or which constitutes a hazard to small children.
   I.   By using any animal, reptile or bird for the purpose of soliciting any
alms, collection, contribution, subscription, donation or payment of money, or
by using any animal in connection with any business for the purpose of
attracting trade upon any street, highway or public park or at any fair,
exhibition or place of amusement, recreation or entertainment or by owning,
keeping or having in his custody any animal, reptile or bird for any such
purpose. Any person convicted of violating this subsection shall be fined not
more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), but no provision of this
subsection shall be construed so as to apply to the exhibition of any animal,
reptile or bird by any educational institution or in connection with any
theatrical exhibition or circus. (Ord. 12-01-06)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-3A-5 of this article.
10-3A-2: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   At Large: It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring,
keeping or in charge of any domesticated animals to permit said domesticated
animal to run at large in the village.
   B.   Dangerous Animals: It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous animal
of any kind to run at large within the village. The members of the police
department, or any person in the village, are authorized to kill any dangerous
animal of any kind when necessary for the protection of persons or property.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person violating subsection A or B of this
section shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   D.   Impounding; Fee: In addition to the fine set forth in subsection C of
this section, any domesticated animal caught while running at large in any
public place shall be impounded, unless more severe action, as outlined in
subsection B of this section, is required. It shall be the duty of the police
department of the village to impound any domesticated animal found running at
large within the village. Such domesticated animal shall be humanely disposed
of by the police department or relinquished to the animal welfare league, if
not redeemed within seventy two (72) hours after the apprehension of such
domesticated animal. When the owner of the domesticated animal impounded is
known, notice shall be given by telephone or by mail to the last known address.
If the owner of any domesticated animal impounded shall claim such domesticated
animal, supporting such claim by proper evidence of ownership, and shall
exhibit a current, duly issued license for such domesticated animal, where
required, the police department shall redeem such domesticated animal to the
true owner thereof upon receipt of the animal welfare league boarding fee/
impounding fee, and upon receipt of the village impounding fee of fifteen
dollars ($15.00). (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3A-3: WILD ANIMAL EXHIBITIONS, PERMIT REGULATIONS:
Exhibitions of animals which are ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be
conducted only upon securing a permit from the president and board of trustees,
and persons conducting such exhibitions shall be required to adequately
restrain, secure and control all wild animals so as not to endanger the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the village and/or viewers of the
exhibition. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3A-4: KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Livestock, Wild Or Dangerous Animals: It shall be unlawful to keep any
dangerous or wild animals including, but not limited to: live swine, pigs,
horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, cows, calves, sheep, lambs or goats in the
village. It shall further be unlawful for any person to have, keep, maintain or
have in his possession or under his control, within the village, any poisonous
reptile or serpent, or any other dangerous or carnivorous wild animal or
reptile, or vicious or dangerous domesticated animal or any of the following
animals or reptiles: baboons, chimpanzees, gibbons, gorillas, orangutans,
siamangs, bears, cheetahs, crocodilians twelve inches (12") or larger,
constrictor snakes, coyotes, foxes, hyenas, jaguars, leopards, lions, lynxes,
ocelots, margays, piranha fish, pumas, raccoons, tigers and wolves. This shall
not apply to circuses when properly licensed by village officials.
   B.   Noisy Animals: It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which
disturbs the peace by loud noises at any time of the day or night. (Ord. 12-01-
06)
10-3A-5: KEEPING, SELLING LIVE POULTRY:
It shall be unlawful to keep, sell, or offer for sale, barter, or give away
live baby chicks, ducklings, goslings, pigeons, fowl or other poultry, domestic
or otherwise in the village except in stores or other commercial establishments
engaged in the business of selling baby chicks, ducklings, goslings, pigeons,
fowl or other poultry for commercial purposes, and not less than six (6) of
each of the aforementioned variety shall be sold to any one person 1 . It shall
be unlawful to raise poultry for home or domestic purposes of any kind in the
village. (Ord. 12-01-06)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 10-3A-1F of this article.
10-3A-6: DISEASED ANIMALS:
No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall be
allowed to run at large, or to be exposed in any public place whereby the
health of man or beast may be affected; nor shall such diseased animal be
shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof, except under the
supervision of the health and sanitation officer or of the state veterinarian.
No such diseased animals shall be brought into the village. The health and
sanitation officer or animal control officer shall have the authority to
humanely destroy any stray animal found running at large with symptoms of any
contagious or infectious disease. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3A-7: BEEHIVES, REQUIREMENTS FOR MAINTAINING:
   A.   It shall be a misdemeanor and nuisance to own or maintain a beehive or
hives within the corporate limits for commercial purposes.
   B.   A person properly licensed by the state may maintain a single,
protected hive for educational purposes or as a hobby by meeting the following
requirements:
      1.   The hive shall be completely surrounded by a six foot (6') high
chainlink or comparable fence which shall be no less than three feet (3') from
said hive at any point.
      2.   The top of the enclosure shall be covered by the same type of
fencing.
      3.   A gate with a lock shall be provided as a means of ingress and
egress.
   C.   Nothing contained herein shall apply to a beehive maintained by a
school for educational or scientific purposes. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3A-8: HUNTING:
No person shall hunt game or wild fowl within the territorial limits of the
village. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3A-9: POISONING ANIMALS:
No person shall place, leave or expose, in any place accessible to birds, fowl,
domestic animals, dogs, cats or other such animals with the intent to kill or
harm such birds, fowl, animals, any poisonous substance or ingredient, or any
edible or any other substance or ingredient which has in any manner been
treated or prepared with any poisonous substance or ingredient. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3A-10: OFFENSIVE PREMISES, ANIMAL WASTES:
   A.   It shall be a misdemeanor and a nuisance to own, use or keep any yard,
pen, place, railroad car or premises, in or upon which animals shall be
confined or kept, so as to be offensive to those residing in the vicinity, or
any annoyance to others.
   B.   No person shall allow or permit any animal owned, housed, under his
control, custody, or subject to his immediate response or call, to defecate or
urinate in the village, or on any alley, roadway or curb in the village, except
on property owned or leased by said person.
   C.   No person shall fail to remove any feces deposited by the person's
animal, except service animals, upon the public ways, within the public places
of the village, or upon the premises of any person other than the owner's
without that person's consent.
   D.   For purposes of this section, the term "control" means any owned animal
that is either secured by a leash or lead, or confined within the premises of
the owner, or confined within a crate or cage or confined within a vehicle, or
within the premises of another person with the consent of that person. (Ord.
12-01-06)
10-3A-11: TOTAL NUMBER OF FOUR LEGGED ANIMALS:
   A.   As of January 13, 2012, no more than three (3) 4-legged animals of
three (3) months of age or older shall be housed or maintained at any residence
within the village. This restriction shall not apply to duly licensed pet
shops, animal hospitals or grooming establishments.
   B.   Should it be determined that a person is housing or maintaining more
than three (3) 4-legged animals, the owner of the premises shall be subject to
a fine of no less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and no more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day the violation exists shall be considered a
separate offense.
   C.   If a person lawfully housed or maintained more than three (3) 4-legged
animals prior to January 13, 2012, such animals shall not be subject to
prohibition in this section and the owner will not be subject to fine. In order
to prove that the owner lawfully housed or maintained more than three (3) 4-
legged animals prior to January 13, 2012, the owner must be able to provide
proof a village license for each animal. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3A-12: INOCULATION OF CATS AND FERRETS:
   A.   Every owner of a cat or ferret four (4) months of age or older within
the village shall cause such cat or ferret to be inoculated by, or under the
supervision of, a licensed veterinarian, with a prophylactic vaccine, approved
by the U.S. department of agriculture or the Illinois department of
agriculture, to prevent rabies. This inoculation shall be obtained annually, or
at such other interval that is suggested by the drug manufacturer, provided the
drug has been approved for use by the U.S. department of agriculture or the
Illinois department of agriculture. A certificate of inoculation against rabies
for such animal so inoculated shall be issued by the county rabies inspector,
or by his deputy, or by a licensed veterinarian, showing the date the animal
received the inoculation. The owner's name, the breed, and the name of the cat
or ferret shall be included on such certificate, and will be maintained by the
owner and, upon request, shown to the animal control officer, health inspector,
or a police officer. (Ord. 12-01-06)
ARTICLE B. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
10-3B-1: Purpose
10-3B-2: Definitions
10-3B-3: Report, License Required, Fee
10-3B-4: Tag Required, Display
10-3B-5: Running At Large Prohibited
10-3B-6: Dogs And Cats Prohibited From Certain Places
10-3B-7: Impoundment Procedures, Disposal, Redemption Fee
10-3B-8: Rabies Case Procedure
10-3B-9: Dog Bite Procedure
10-3B-10: Accident Report, Assistance
10-3B-11: Cruelty To Animals
10-3B-12: Animal Defecation, Requirements
10-3B-13: Enforcement Of Article
10-3B-14: Vicious And Dangerous Dogs
10-3B-15: Penalty
10-3B-16: Report Of Violation
10-3B-17: Administrative Adjudication Of Violations
10-3B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to promote a harmonious relationship between man
and dogs and cats through the establishment of defined procedures when man and
dogs and cats interact. The defined procedures will include these situations or
conditions:
   A.   Protection of dogs and cats from abuse, neglect, and rabies.
   B.   Provide security of residents from annoyance, intimidation, injury, and
rabies by dogs and cats.
   C.   Establish the village's method of response to residents regarding
situations involving dogs and cats.
   D.   Develop a program designed to encourage responsible dog and cat
ownership. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3B-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article the following definitions shall apply:
DOG OR CAT OF LICENSING AGE: Any dog or cat which has attained the age of seven
(7) months or which possesses a set of permanent teeth.
OWNER: When applied to the proprietorship of a dog or cat shall include every
person having a right of property in such dog or cat and every person who has
such dog or cat in his keeping.
PROPER CONTROL: A dog or cat shall be deemed under proper control if on the
enclosed premises of its owner or on a leash and under the control of a
responsible person. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3B-3: REPORT, LICENSE REQUIRED, FEE:
   A.   Every owner of, and every person who harbors or keeps a dog or cat of
licensing age within the limits of the village shall report to the
administrative services department annually within thirty (30) days after
January 1 in each year, his name and address, and the name, breed, color, sex
and age of each and every dog or cat owned or kept by such person, and obtain a
license and a tag for such dog or cat. Such person shall pay the department of
administrative services the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for each dog or cat.
   B.   The owner of any newly acquired dog or cat of licensing age or of any
dog or cat which attains licensing age, shall make application for license and
tag for such dog or cat within ten (10) days after such acquisition or age
attainment.
   C.   Dogs used as guides for blind persons and commonly known as "seeing
eye" dogs, shall be registered as other dogs, except that the owner or keeper
of such dog shall not be required to pay any fee therefor.
   D.   Every owner of a dog or cat within the village shall cause such dog or
cat to be inoculated by, or under the supervision of, a licensed veterinarian,
with a prophylactic vaccine, approved by the U.S. department of agriculture or
the Illinois department of agriculture, to prevent rabies. This inoculation
shall be obtained annually, or at such other interval that is suggested by the
drug manufacturer, provided the drug has been approved for use by the U.S.
department of agriculture or the Illinois department of agriculture. A
certificate of inoculation against rabies for such animal so inoculated shall
be issued by the county rabies inspector, or by his deputy, or by a licensed
veterinarian, showing the date the animal received the inoculation. The owner's
name, the breed, and the name of the dog or cat shall be included on such
certificate, and will be maintained by the owner and, upon request, shown to
the animal control officer, health inspector, or a police officer.
No person shall receive a dog or cat license unless he shall present to the
village department of administrative services a certificate or other statement
from a veterinarian, or other authorized person, that the dog or cat has been
inoculated against rabies.
   E.   The department of administrative services and police department shall
keep a complete registry of all licensed dogs and cats, describing the same by
name, breed, color and sex, and showing the name, address and telephone number
of the keeper, as given, and the number of the village license tag. (Ord. 12-
01-06)
10-3B-4: TAG REQUIRED, DISPLAY:
The village department of administrative services shall provide each and every
year, such number of metal tags as may be necessary (the shape to be changed
every year), having stamped thereon the year for which the tax is paid, the
letters O.L.D.T., and also the number of the tag. It shall be the duty of the
department of administrative services to deliver one of such metal tags to the
person having paid the tax upon such dog or cat, the number of each tag to
correspond with the registry of the dog or cat.
Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog or cat of licensing age shall
place upon each such dog or cat a collar or harness with the metal tag securely
fastened thereto. Any owner or keeper of a dog or cat, failing to provide such
collar and tag shall be subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
No person, except an officer in the performance of his duties shall remove a
tag from the collar of any dog or cat without the consent of the owner, nor
shall any person attach a tag to a dog or cat for which it is not issued. (Ord.
12-01-06)
10-3B-5: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It is prohibited for any dog or cat owned, harbored or kept by any persons to
run at large. Any owner, harborer or keeper of such dog or cat is liable for
the prohibited act of running at large by such dog or cat under any
circumstances which precipitate the dog's or cat's engaging in the prohibited
behavior. A dog or cat shall be deemed to be running at large when off the
premises of its owner, or of the person keeping or harboring such dog or cat,
if the dog is not on a leash, tether, chain, rope, or the like, and if such
leash, tether, chain or rope is not held by its owner or other person able to
control such dog.
   A.   Length And Type Of Leash: When being walked on public property, all
dogs must be bound by a leash of no more than five feet (5') in length. Reel
type extender leashes may not be extended for more than five feet (5') while
walking a dog on public property.
   B.   Restriction While On Owner's Property: It shall be prohibited to allow
an unsecured dog to roam an owner's property. While on an owner's property, all
dogs must be restricted to a fence enclosed yard. If the owner's property is
not encompassed by a fence the dog must be restricted by a cage, stake and
chain, or wire dog run. The choice of restriction must be secure enough to
restrict the dog to the owner's property and comply with the provisions of
section
10-3B-11, "Cruelty To Animals", of this article. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3B-6: DOGS AND CATS PROHIBITED FROM CERTAIN PLACES:
   A.   Public Halls, Food Establishments: It shall be unlawful for any dog or
cat, even though on leash, to be in or enter upon any public hall, restaurant,
confectionery shop, coffee shop, ice cream parlor, soft drink parlor, office,
store, grocery, meat market, bakery or any store or shop for the sale of food,
except any shop for the sale of animal pets, anywhere within the village,
during the time that any of said places or establishments are open for use by
the public or persons entitled to use the same. This provision shall not apply
to "seeing eye" dogs leading blind persons. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3B-7: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES, DISPOSAL, REDEMPTION FEE:
It shall be the duty of the police department of the village to impound any
stray dog or cat found running at large upon the streets, alleys, public
places, parks, school grounds, or upon property belonging to any person other
than the owner. Such dog or cat shall be humanely disposed of by the police
department or relinquished to the animal welfare league, if not redeemed within
seventy two (72) hours after the apprehension of such dog or cat. When the
owner of the dog or cat impounded is known, notice shall be given by telephone
or by mail to the last known address. If the owner of any dog or cat impounded
shall claim such dog or cat, supporting such claim by proper evidence of
ownership, and shall exhibit a current, duly issued license for such dog or
cat, the police department shall redeem such dog or cat to the true owner
thereof upon receipt of a boarding fee and penalty of ten dollars ($10.00). If
the owner does not have current rabies inoculation or dog or cat license, he
shall be required to deposit a fee to cover the cost of the rabies inoculation
and the dog or cat license, plus payment of the ten dollar ($10.00) redemption
fee.
If a tranquilizer gun is used to apprehend a stray or vicious dog or cat which
cannot be captured by normal means, the village and its agents shall not be
responsible if the animal shall succumb as a result of the use of the
tranquilizer gun. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3B-8: RABIES CASE PROCEDURE:
Whenever a case of rabies has occurred in the village, the Cook County animal
control administrator shall be notified immediately via a phone call. The Cook
County animal control administrator then shall act to prevent the spread of
rabies. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3B-9: DOG BITE PROCEDURE:
   A.   The official procedure for dog bite cases shall be as follows:
      1.   When the police department receives information that a person has
been bitten by a dog, the dog's owner shall be instructed to have the dog
examined by his veterinarian within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   If the dog bite occurred off the dog owner's property or when the
dog was left without proper control, a citation shall be written against the
dog owner.
      3.   The police department shall fill out the Cook County animal bite
report in full and he shall send this report within twenty four (24) hours to
the local public health department or to the Cook County department of animal
control.
      4.   All dogs that bite must be impounded for ten (10) days, following
the first examination.
      5.   Impoundment at home or at a facility under the observation of a
licensed veterinarian shall be dependent upon a current rabies vaccination and
the ability of the dog owner to confine the biting dog.
      6.   When an owner of a biting dog has no personal veterinarian, or
refuses to obtain the services of a veterinarian, the police department shall
have the animal impounded for the ten (10) days.
      7.   A record shall be made of all impounded dogs. The record shall
include the dog owner's name, address and telephone number, if available;
species or breed, color, sex, and license or tag number if available; and the
time and date impounded.
      8.   The veterinarian examining the biting dog shall fill out and then
send within twenty four (24) hours the Cook County rabies observation notice to
the Cook County department of animal control.
      9.   Following the examination of the biting dog at the end of the ten
(10) day confinement period the veterinarian shall complete the Cook County
rabies release report and he shall send this report within twenty four (24)
hours to the Cook County department of animal control.
   B.   The animal owner is responsible for all costs relating to the
examination and impoundment of the biting dog.
   C.   Any person having knowledge of a biting dog that has not been properly
examined and who does not report this fact to the police department is in
violation of this article.
   D.   It is unlawful for the owner of a biting dog to euthanize, sell, give
away, or otherwise dispose of such animal until it is released by the Cook
County animal control administrator or his authorized representative. (Ord. 12-
01-06)
10-3B-10: ACCIDENT REPORT, ASSISTANCE:
Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a dog or cat shall
stop at once and render such assistance as may be possible and shall
immediately report such injury or death to the dog's or cat's owner. In the
event the owner cannot be ascertained and located, such operator shall at once
report the accident to the police department. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3B-11: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
No person or owner of an animal shall:
   A.   Beat, cruelly ill treat, torment, overload, overwork, or otherwise
abuse an animal, or cause, instigate or permit any dogfight, or other combat
between dogs or between dogs and humans.
   B.   Abandon any animal.
   C.   Knowingly poison or cause to be poisoned any animal.
   D.   Keep or permit to be kept on his premises any wild or vicious dog for
display or for exhibition purposes. This subsection shall not be construed to
apply to zoological parks, performing animal exhibitions, or circuses.
   E.   Fail to properly feed and hydrate animal.
   F.   Fail to provide proper protection of any animal from the elements.
(Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3B-12: ANIMAL DEFECATION, REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring, keeping, or in charge of
any animal to cause, suffer, or allow such animal to soil, defile, defecate on
or commit any nuisance on any common thoroughfare, sidewalk, passageway,
bypath, play area, park, school grounds, or any place where people congregate
or walk, or upon any public property whatsoever, or upon any private property
without the permission of the owner of said property. The restriction in this
section shall not apply to that portion of the street lying between the curb
lines, which shall be used to curb such animal under the following conditions:
   A.   The person who so curbs such animal shall immediately remove all
excreta deposited by such animal by any sanitary method.
   B.   The excreta removed from the aforementioned designated area shall be
disposed of by the person owning, harboring, keeping, or in charge of any dog
curbed in accordance with the provisions of this article, in a sanitary manner.
   C.   Every dog owner shall be responsible for the immediate removal and
sanitary disposal of any excreta deposited by his animal on any and all public
property. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3B-13: ENFORCEMENT OF ARTICLE:
Any police officer or agent of the village performing any duty under this
article is hereby authorized to go upon any premises to seize for impounding
any dog or cat which he may lawfully seize and impound when such police officer
or agent is in immediate pursuit of such dog or cat. Such police officer or
agent enforcing the provisions of this article shall not be held responsible
for any accident or property damages which occur while in the pursuit of any
dog or cat. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3B-14: VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
   DANGEROUS DOG: Any individual dog which when either unmuzzled, unleashed or
unattended by its owner, or a member of its owner's family, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack
upon streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds or places.
   ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming
or causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures which may
be undertaken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a vicious dog within
the enclosure (e.g., a dog run or dog kennel). Such enclosure shall be securely
enclosed and locked and designed with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be
designed to prevent the animal from escaping from the enclosure.
   FOUND TO BE VICIOUS DOG:
      1.   The village's administrative adjudication hearing officer, the
village's animal control officer, or a village police officer has conducted an
investigation and made a finding in writing that the dog is a "vicious dog" as
defined herein, and based on that finding, the village's administrative
adjudication hearing officer or the village's animal control office has
declared in writing that the dog is a vicious dog; or
      2.   The circuit court has found the dog to be a "vicious dog" as defined
herein and has entered an order based on that finding.
   IMPOUNDED: Taken into the custody of the public pound.
   VICIOUS DOG:
      1.   Any individual dog that when unprovoked inflicts bites or attacks a
human being or other animal either on public or private property;
      2.   Any individual dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the
safety of human beings or domestic animals;
      3.   Any individual dog that has as a trait or characteristic and a
generally known reputation for viciousness, dangerousness or unprovoked attacks
upon human beings or other animals, unless handled in a particular manner or
with special equipment;
      4.   Any individual dog which attacks a human being or domestic animal
without provocation; or
      5.   Any individual dog which has been found to be a "dangerous dog" upon
three (3) separate occasions.
No dog shall be deemed "vicious" if it bites, attacks or menaces a trespasser
on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has tormented or
abused it or is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement or guard
duties. Vicious dogs shall not be classified in a manner that is specific as to
breed.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog which
has been found to be a vicious dog unless such dog is at all times kept in an
enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed out of the
enclosure are:
      1.   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary care
for the dog; or
      2.   To transport the dog relative to a sale or transfer, subject to
complying with the notice requirements set forth in subsection E of this
section; or
      3.   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
provided that the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a
tensile strength of at least three hundred (300) pounds and not exceeding three
feet (3') in length, and shall be under the direct control and supervision of
the owner or keeper of the dog.
   C.   Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not
confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the village's administrative
adjudication hearing officer, the village's animal control officer or any
village police officer and shall be turned over to a licensed veterinarian for
destruction by lethal injection. If the owner of the dog has not appealed the
impoundment order to the circuit court within seven (7) working days, the dog
may be humanely dispatched.
   D.   A dog found to be a vicious dog shall not be released to the owner
until the village's administrative adjudication hearing officer or the
village's animal control officer approves the "enclosure" as defined herein.
   E.   No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give the dog away
without giving the village's animal control officer notice thereof at least
five (5) business days prior to said sale or disposition. Said notice shall
contain the name, address and phone number of the person or entity to whom said
vicious dog is being sold or transferred.
   F.   The owner of a vicious dog shall, as part of the licensing of said dog
in accordance with section
10-3B-3 of this article, be required to show proof of liability insurance,
relative to and covering said dog, as a condition precedent to the issuance of
the required license.
   G.   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police owned dogs are exempt from
this section; provided, the attack or injury to a person or domestic animal
occurs while the dog is performing duties as expected. To qualify for an
exemption under this subsection, each such dog shall be currently inoculated
against rabies in accordance with 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8 and
properly registered with the administrator of the animal control act, 510
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3B-15: PENALTY:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided for in this article, any person found guilty
of violating any of the provisions of this article shall be fined as follows:
      1.   For a first offense, not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      2.   For a second offense, not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
nor more than seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00).
      3.   For a third or subsequent offense, not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) nor more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
   B.   If the owner of a dog subject to enclosure pursuant to section
10-3B-14 of this article:
      1.   Fails to maintain or keep the dog in an enclosure; and
      2.   The dog inflicts great bodily harm, permanent disfigurement,
permanent physical disability upon any other person or domestic animal, or
causes the death of another person or domestic animal; and
      3.   The attack is unprovoked in a place where such person is peaceably
conducting himself and where such person or domestic animal may lawfully be;
the owner shall be charged under the animal control act, 510 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1 et seq., and not under this article. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3B-16: REPORT OF VIOLATION:
Any person may report alleged violations of this chapter to the Oak Lawn animal
control officer or his or her authorized designee. Upon receipt of such a
report, the animal control officer or his or her authorized designee shall
conduct a prompt investigation. (Ord. 12-01-06)
10-3B-17: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF VIOLATIONS:
Any violation of this chapter shall be administered in accordance with title
11, chapter 12, "Administrative Adjudication Of Nonvehicular Regulations
Violations", of this code. (Ord. 12-01-06)
ARTICLE C. CATS
SECTION:
10-3C-1: Responsibilities Of Owners Of Domestic Cats
10-3C-1: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS OF DOMESTIC CATS:
   A.   Owners of domesticated cats shall provide appropriate and adequate
food, water, and shelter for their cats.
   B.   The owner of a domesticated cat shall exercise reasonable care to guard
against the cat creating nuisance.
   C.   Owner of domesticated cats shall not permit their cats to roam
unsupervised off their property.
   D.   An owner of a cat shall not abandon a domesticated cat. (Ord. 12-01-06)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Curfew
10-4-2: Regulation Of Tobacco Products
10-4-3: Parental Responsibility
10-4-3-1: Definitions
10-4-3-2: Responsibility Required
10-4-3-3: Presumption Of Parental Consent
10-4-3-4: Supervision
10-4-3-5: Court/Hearing Appearance Of Parents
10-4-3-6: Penalties
10-4-4: Truancy
10-4-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Restrictions; Exceptions: Notwithstanding anything contained to the
contrary in this code, the following shall apply with respect to curfew:
      1.   It is unlawful for a person less than eighteen (18) years of age
(the "child") to be present at any public assembly or in any public building,
park, sidewalk, street or highway or other public place:
         a.   Between ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. on Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following
day;
         b.   Between eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. on Friday and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Saturday; and
         c.   Between eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. on Saturday and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Sunday.
      2.   The curfew set forth in subsection A1 of this section does not apply
to a child who is:
         a.   Accompanied by the child's parent, guardian or custodian;
         b.   Accompanied by a person at least eighteen (18) years of age
approved by the child's parent, guardian or custodian;
         c.   Engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of this state
authorize a person less than eighteen (18) years of age to perform;
         d.   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
            (1)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
            (2)   An activity involving the exercise of the child's rights
protected under the first amendment to the United States constitution or
article 1, sections 3, 4, and 5 of the constitution of the state of Illinois,
or both, such as freedoms of religion and speech and the right of assembly, to
include, but not be limited to:
               (A)   A religious event, including, but not limited to, prayer
and vigil services; or
               (B)   A political event, including, but not limited to,
observing or influencing a legislative session and attending a political rally
or event; or
            (3)   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the
supervision of one or more adults; or
         e.   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside Illinois to another location outside Illinois with the permission of a
parent or legal guardian.
      3.   Prior to arresting or citing a child for curfew under this section,
the police officer must make reasonable inquiry to determine whether any of the
exceptions contained in subsection A2 of this section apply, in addition to the
age and time requirements set forth in subsection A1 of this section. A police
officer shall issue a citation or make an arrest for curfew only if the police
officer has reasonable grounds to believe that the child has violated this
subsection A and that no exceptions apply.
      4.   It is unlawful for any parent, legal guardian or other person to
knowingly permit a person in his/her custody or control to violate this
subsection A.
   B.   Parental Responsibility, Penalty: Knowingly permitting a child to be
alone and without an attendant upon the streets or other public grounds in
violation of this section shall, for the first offense, subject such parent,
guardian, or other person having charge of any such child, to a fine of not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) and not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
The penalty for the second offense shall be not less than ten dollars ($10.00)
nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), and for the third offense
not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). The parent or guardian may, in case of urgent necessity, send such
child upon an errand, but such parent or guardian shall see that such child
returns promptly, or if he does not, shall make an immediate investigation,
calling upon the police, if necessary, to see that such child returns.
   C.   Enforcement: Every judge having jurisdiction of a cause of action
falling within the scope of this section, is authorized to enforce this
section, and if it shall appear that such child has become so unruly or
incorrigible as to require special attention, he may, in addition to
instituting any fine herein provided, report fully to the president and board
of trustees his findings, to the end that further action may be taken as by law
provided, for the proper care of such child. (1951 Code 17-4-18; Ord. 64-20;
1985 Code; Ords. 99-5-11, 01-02-04, 04-06-24)
10-4-2: REGULATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
For regulations regarding tobacco products and minors, see title 3, chapter 15
of this code. (Ord. 96-4-17)
10-4-3: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
10-4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them for the purposes
of this section
10-4-3:
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
court, but it does not include a person appointed guardian or given custody of
a minor under the juvenile court act 1  as amended, in the state.
MINOR: Any person who has not yet attained the age of eighteen (18). (Ord. 76-
31-66)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1.
10-4-3-2: RESPONSIBILITY REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for the parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor
residing with such parent or legal guardian to fail to exercise proper parental
responsibility by allowing or permitting said minor to commit any violation of
a village ordinance or state statute concerning vandalism, graffiti, battery,
curfew, disorderly conduct, fireworks, obscene conduct, indecent exposure,
trespass or possession of a laser pointer, alcoholic liquor or tobacco
products, or any other offense of wilful or malicious acts to persons or
property. (Ords. 76-31-66, 96-4-17, 98-22-99, 06-07-34)
10-4-3-3: PRESUMPTION OF PARENTAL CONSENT:
A parent or legal guardian shall be presumed to have allowed or permitted said
minor to have committed a violation of a village ordinance or state statute
under all of the following conditions:
   A.   Said minor has been either adjudicated to be in violation of any
ordinance or state statute as described in section
10-4-3-2 of this chapter; or has been charged with the violation of any
ordinance or state statute as described in section
10-4-3-2 of this chapter (except if found to be not guilty); or has incurred
nonjudicial sanctions from any peace officer, police officer, or conservator of
the peace resulting from an admission of guilty to an offense of an ordinance
or state statute as described in section
10-4-3-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Said parent or legal guardian has received a written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service in
substantially the following form:
LEGAL NOTICE
      To: (Parents' names)
      From: Village of Oak Lawn
      You are hereby notified that  (minor's name)  has been involved in the
commission of  (specify offense) , which is a violation of a State statute or
the Village Code. If your minor child is again involved in a violation of State
statutes or Village ordinances involving vandalism, graffiti, battery, curfew,
disorderly conduct, fireworks, obscene conduct, indecent exposure, trespass, or
possession of a laser pointer, alcoholic liquor or tobacco products, or any
other offense of willful or malicious nature to persons or property, you will
be charged with Parental Irresponsibility. Conviction for said offense can
result in a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). You are hereby notified that you
must exercise proper parental responsibility over said minor by controlling his
unlawful conduct.
   C.   Said minor, within two (2) years of the receipt of said notice by the
parent or legal guardian, has been either adjudicated to have committed, has
been charged with the violation (except if found to be not guilty), or has
admitted to have committed any violation of any ordinance or state statute as
described in section
10-4-3-2 of this chapter. (Ords. 76-31-66, 96-4-17, 98-22-99, 06-07-34)
10-4-3-4: SUPERVISION:
It is the policy of the village to permit the village prosecutor to use the
provisions of the "unified code of corrections", as amended, of the state
pertaining to supervision in order to further the ends of justice, restitution,
and purposes of this section
10-4-3. (Ord. 76-31-66)
10-4-3-5: COURT/HEARING APPEARANCE OF PARENTS:
It is the policy of the village that a parent or legal guardian of a minor be
notified and required to appear in court or at an administrative hearing
whenever that minor is charged with a violation of an ordinance or state
statute which requires the minor's appearance. To this end it is hereby
directed that a notice in substantially the following form be sent to the
parents or legal guardians of the minor by certified mail, return receipt
requested:
   A.   If a court hearing:
LEGAL NOTICE
      To: (Parents' names)
      From: Village of Oak Lawn
      You are hereby notified that  (minor's name)  has been charged with an
offense which is a violation of a State statute or Village ordinance and which
requires the appearance of said minor in court. You are further notified that
one of the parents of said minor must appear in court before the case will be
tried or be disposed of.
If you fail to appear, the Village Prosecutor has been directed to have issued
a subpoena to bring you in to court. Failure to obey a subpoena can result in
contempt of court, with a fine or imprisonment as the penalty.
The village prosecutor is hereby directed to have subpoenas issued whenever a
parent or legal guardian of a minor does not appear in court after the first
two (2) times said case has been before the court.
   B.   If an administrative adjudication hearing:
LEGAL NOTICE
      To: (Parents' names)
      From: Village of Oak Lawn
      You are hereby notified that  (minor's name)  has been charged with an
offense which is a violation of a Village ordinance and which requires the
appearance of said minor in an administrative adjudication hearing. You are
further notified that one of the parents of said minor must appear at the
hearing.
If you fail to appear, the Village Prosecutor has been directed to have issued
a subpoena to bring you in to the hearing. Failure to obey a subpoena can
result in a default judgment being entered against you.
The village prosecutor is hereby directed to have subpoenas issued whenever a
parent or legal guardian of a minor does not appear at the hearing after the
first two (2) times said case has been before the administrative adjudication
hearing officer. (Ords. 76-31-66, 06-07-34)
10-4-3-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person convicted of any violation of the provisions of this section
10-4-3 by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be fined not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense and in addition may be sentenced to probation or
conditional discharge with the conditions being that the parent or legal
guardian make restitution or reparation in an amount not to exceed actual loss
or damage to property or pecuniary loss. The court shall determine the amount
and conditions of payment. Where the conditions of payment have not been
satisfied, the court may, at any time prior to the expiration or termination of
the period of probation or of conditional discharge, impose an additional fine.
The village prosecutor, at his discretion, shall seek to nonsuit and ask for
dismissal of charge upon satisfactory termination of the conditions of
conditional discharge as set forth by the trial judge.
   B.   Any person convicted of any violation of the provisions of this section
10-4-3 by an administrative adjudication hearing officer shall be fined not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. In addition, the parent or legal guardian
may be ordered to make restitution or reparation in an amount not to exceed
actual loss or damage to property or pecuniary loss. The hearing officer shall
determine the amount and conditions of payment. Where the conditions of payment
have not been satisfied, the hearing officer may enter judgment against the
parent or guardian for the payment as provided in title 11, chapter 12 of this
code. (Ord. 76-31-66; 1985 Code; Ords. 99-5-11, 06-07-34)
10-4-4: TRUANCY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms,
words and their derivations shall have the following meanings:
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: Any foster parent, or any person appointed guardian, or
otherwise awarded custody, of a minor by a court of law in this state, or any
person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor under the Illinois
juvenile court act 1 , but shall not include any person appointed guardian only
to the estate of a minor.
   PARENT: The father or mother of a minor child, whether by birth or adoption.
The word "parent" as used in this section shall also be deemed to mean "legal
guardian". In the event that the minor's parents are divorced or separated
within the meaning of the Illinois marriage and dissolution of marriage act 2 ,
the parent having lawful physical custody of the minor shall be deemed to be
the parent authorized to give consent as required by this section.
   VALID CAUSE FOR ABSENCE: Illness, observance of a religious holiday, death
in the immediate family, family emergency and other situations beyond the
control of the minor as determined by the board of education in each district
or such other circumstances which cause reasonable concern to the parent for
the health or safety of the minor.
   B.   Truancy Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of eighteen (18) enrolled in a public, private or parochial school within the
corporate limits of the village to absent himself or herself from attendance at
school without the permission of his or her parent or legal guardian for
absences for valid cause as defined herein, or by the school in which the minor
is enrolled. Any person who shall so absent himself or herself shall be guilty
of the offense of truancy and shall be subject to the penalties hereinafter set
forth in this chapter. Emergency or unforeseen absences due to illness or other
causes beyond the control of the person so absenting himself or herself from
school without parental permission shall not constitute truancy if permission
for such absences has substantially been obtained from the parent or lawful
guardian, provided that such permission is submitted in writing to the proper
school authorities within twenty four (24) hours of the next regularly
scheduled school day after such absence.
   C.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal
guardian to permit his or her minor child or ward to violate this section.
   D.   Penalty:
      1.   The first incident of truancy shall be handled according to the
policy and procedure of the school and by the school authorities in which the
minor is enrolled. The incident shall be documented and retained by the school
district to be supplied to the court at any subsequent hearings for further
violations of this section.
      2.   Any subsequent violations will result in the minor and/or the parent
or legal guardian being appropriately cited and brought before the court.
Conviction for said offense can result in a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00), nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation. In
addition to, or in lieu of, the penalties set forth in this subsection D, the
violator may be required by the court to serve a period of community service as
described in subsection D3 of this section.
      3.   Any person that shall violate any of the provisions of this section
may be required, in lieu of a fine, to perform a period of community service
not to exceed seventy two (72) hours per violation. Community service may
consist of manual labor assigned by the village to be done in the village, or
any cause or project that the village may deem suitable to help cause a
positive behavioral change. The court is asked to be firm but flexible in the
assignment of community service with the intent to quickly modify negative
behavioral traits. Such community service shall not be scheduled during school
hours on days when students are required to be in attendance in school. (Ords.
93-7-19, 99-5-11)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
2 2. 750 ILCS 5/101 et seq.
CHAPTER 5
MISDEMEANOR OFFENSES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Assault And Battery
10-5-2: Disorderly Conduct, Disturbances, Assemblages
10-5-3: Liquor Related Offenses
10-5-4: Drug Paraphernalia
10-5-4-1: Definitions
10-5-4-2: Offenses And Penalties
10-5-5: Gambling
10-5-5-1: Definitions
10-5-5-2: Prohibited Acts
10-5-5-3: Gambling Places
10-5-5-4: Seizure, Destruction Of Devices
10-5-5-5: Charitable Games Act Events
10-5-6: Offenses Against Morals
10-5-6-1: Prostitution And Related Offenses
10-5-6-2: Public Indecency
10-5-6-3: Obscenity
10-5-6-4: Lewd, Abusive Language Or Gestures
10-5-7: Offenses Against Property
10-5-7-1: Damaging, Defacing Property
10-5-7-2: Obstructing Waterways, Streets
10-5-7-3: Trespass Prohibited
10-5-7-4: Graffiti Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 06-07-34)
10-5-7-5: Retail Theft
10-5-8: Weapons, Firearms
10-5-9: Lighted Tobacco Products Prohibited
10-5-10: Setting Bonfires (Rep. by Ord. 07-04-15)
10-5-11: Disruptive Public Conduct
10-5-12: Resisting Police Officers; Aiding Escape
10-5-13: False Alarms
10-5-14: False Weights And Measures
10-5-15: Care Of Library Books
10-5-16: Noisy Construction, Repair Or Reconstruction Operation
10-5-17: Playing Around Railroad Equipment
10-5-18: Harmful Articles In Streets
10-5-19: Throwing Missiles
10-5-20: Harassment By Telephone
10-5-21: Pawnbrokers Prohibited
10-5-22: Regulation Of Laser Pointers
10-5-23: Possession Of Cannabis
10-5-24: Trick-Or-Treating
10-5-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
No person shall commit an assault or an assault and battery upon the person of
another within the limits of the village. (1951 Code 17-3-1)
10-5-2: DISORDERLY CONDUCT, DISTURBANCES, ASSEMBLAGES:
   A.   Assemblies On Streets, Sidewalks: No person shall engage in any
disorderly conduct, or make, aid, countenance or assist in making any improper
noise, riot, disturbance, breach of peace, or diversion tending to a breach of
the peace, in the streets or elsewhere in the village; or in loud and violent
language, advise any person to assault or beat the person of another; or
collect in bodies or crowds for unlawful purposes, or for any purpose, on the
streets or public sidewalks of the village, to the annoyance or disturbance of
others.
   B.   Disturbing Assemblages, Public Places, Processions: No person shall:
      1.   Conduct himself in a riotous or disorderly manner or disturb the
peace at any show, exhibition, theater or other place of amusement, or at any
election poll in the village.
      2.   Interrupt or disturb any assembly of people met for worship of God
or any school or other assembly or procession of people met for a lawful
purpose.
      3.   Wilfully disturb or interrupt any funeral procession.
   C.   Unlawful Assemblies: It shall be unlawful for any two (2) or more
persons within the village to assemble together for any unlawful purpose, or,
being assembled, to act in concert to do an unlawful act with force and
violence against the property of the village, or the person or property of
another, or against the peace or to the terror of citizens or other persons, or
to make any movement or preparation therefor; and no person shall knowingly
suffer or permit any assemblage for the purpose of committing any unlawful act
or breach of the peace or any riotous, offensive or disorderly conduct in or
upon the premises owned by him or under his control within the village.
   D.   Disorderly Houses; Unhealthful Use of Premises:
      1.   Permitting Disorderly House: No person owning or in possession,
charge or control of any building or premises shall use the same, or permit the
use of the same, or rent the same to be used for any business or employment, or
for any purpose of pleasure or recreation, if such shall, from its noise or
boisterous nature, disturb or destroy the peace of the neighborhood in which
such building or premises are situated, or be dangerous or detrimental to
health and such use is hereby declared a nuisance.
      2.   Keeping Disorderly House: No person shall keep or maintain any bawdy
or disorderly house, or any house or other place where any person is permitted
or suffered to make improper noise or disturbance, or any house or other place
where any minor is permitted to drink intoxicating drinks of any kind, or play
with dice, dominoes, cards, balls or other articles used in gaming. (1951 Code
16-1, 17-2-7, 17-2-8, 17-2-9, 17-4-1, 17-4-2, 17-4-3)
10-5-3: LIQUOR RELATED OFFENSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Intoxication: Appear in a state of intoxication in any highway, street,
alley, thoroughfare or public place in the Village or in any private house or
place, to the annoyance of any citizen or person.
   B.   Drinking in Public Places: Drink or consume any alcoholic liquor in any
public place, including but not limited to streets, alleys, sidewalks and
parkways. (1951 Code 17-2-11; Ord. 77-19-28)
10-5-4: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
10-5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The term "drug paraphernalia" means all equipment, products, and
materials of any kind, other than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as
defined in section 10 of the "Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection
Act", 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 646/1 et seq., and cannabis paraphernalia
as defined in this section, which are used, intended for use, or designed for
use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of the "Illinois Controlled
Substances Act", 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/1 et seq., or the
"Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act", 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 646/1 et seq., or a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in
violation of the "Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act", 410 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 620/1 et seq. It includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      2.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances;
      3.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
      4.   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
      5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      6.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine, hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      7.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for
use in cutting controlled substances.
      8.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the body;
      9.   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the
human body, such as:
         a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
         b.   Water pipes;
         c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         e.   Roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning material that
has become too small or too short to be held in the hand;
         f.   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials;
         g.   Chamber pipes;
         h.   Carburetor pipes;
         i.   Electric pipes;
         j.   Air-driven pipes;
         k.   Chillums;
         l.   Bongs;
         m.   Ice pipes or chillers.
      10.   Any other item defined as "drug paraphernalia" by the "Drug
Paraphernalia Control Act", 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/1 et seq., as it
may be amended from time to time.
   B.   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or
other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
      1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any State or Federal law relating to any controlled
substances;
      3.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      4.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
      5.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
the Illinois Controlled Substances Act 1  or the Illinois Cannabis Control Act
2 ; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as to a
direct violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act or the Illinois
Cannabis Control Act, shall not prevent a finding that the object is intended
for use, or designed for use, as drug paraphernalia;
      6.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      7.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      8.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      9.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      10.   Expert testimony concerning its use. (Ord. 82-9-34, 22-13-45)
 
Notes
1 1   S.H.A. ch. 561/2, §§1101 et. seq.
2 2   S.H.A. ch. 561/2, §§701 et. seq.
10-5-4-2: OFFENSES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia: Except as otherwise provided in the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.) or the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.), it is unlawful
for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug paraphernalia to
plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the Illinois controlled substances act or
the Illinois cannabis act. Any person who violates this subsection is guilty of
a violation of this section 10-5-4, and upon conviction may be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100) nor not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
   B.   Manufacture, Delivery Or Sale Of Drug Paraphernalia: Except as
otherwise provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et
seq.) or the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS 130/
1 et seq.), it is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to
deliver, manufacture with intent to deliver, sell, possess with intent to sell,
or buy drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably
should know, that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow,
harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation of
the Illinois controlled substances act, or the Illinois cannabis control act.
Any person who violates this subsection is guilty of a violation of this
section 10-5-4 and upon conviction may be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100) nor not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   C.   Delivery Of Drug Paraphernalia To A Minor: Any person eighteen (18)
years of age or over who violates subsection B of this section by delivering or
selling drug paraphernalia to a person under twenty-one (21) years of age is
guilty of a special offense and upon conviction may be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100) nor not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ords. 82-9-34, 99-5-11, 22-13-45)
10-5-5: GAMBLING:
10-5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section
10-5-5:
GAMBLING DEVICE: Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machine or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill or
upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A "gambling device" does
not include:
   A.   A coin in the slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property.
   B.   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
GAMBLING PLACE: Any real estate, vehicle, boat or any other property whatsoever
used for the purposes of gambling.
LOTTERY: Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed by
chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name.
POLICY GAME: Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees by
any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, sticker or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt. (Ord. 77-24-45)
10-5-5-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gambling Prohibited, Exceptions: It shall be unlawful for a person to
commit gambling.
      1.   A person commits gambling when he:
         a.   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of
value. Provided, however, the prohibitions provided for in this chapter or in
any other chapter or section of this code that may reference or govern gambling
or gaming shall not apply to any video gaming device for which a license or
permit has been issued by the Illinois gaming board pursuant to the Illinois
video gaming act as codified in 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., so
long as such device is conducted in compliance with all requirements of said
act and all rules and regulations of the Illinois gaming board; or
         b.   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest, or any
political nomination, appointment or election; or
         c.   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any gambling
device. Provided, however, the prohibitions provided for in this chapter or in
any other chapter or section of this code that may reference or govern gambling
or gaming shall not apply to any video gaming device for which a license or
permit has been issued by the Illinois gaming board pursuant to the Illinois
video gaming act as codified in 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., so
long as such device is conducted in compliance with all requirements of said
act and all rules and regulations of the Illinois gaming board; or
         d.   Contracts to have or give himself or another the option to buy or
sell, at a future time, any grain or other commodity whatsoever, or any stock
or security of any company, where it is at the time of making such contract
intended by both parties thereto that the contract to buy or sell, or the
option, whenever exercised, or the contract resulting therefrom, shall be
settled, not by the receipt of delivery of such property, but by the payment
only of differences in prices thereof; or
         e.   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered; or
         f.   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment or election; or
         g.   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell or
transfers any ticket or share for any lottery; or
         h.   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, or other similar device; or
         i.   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game or drafts, prints
or publishes any lottery ticket or share, or any policy ticket or similar
device, or any advertisement of any lottery or policy game; or
         j.   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
chances in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this subsection prohibits
transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting or
sporting events or contests.
      2.   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be
convicted of gambling:
         a.   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of
chance including, without limitation, contracts of indemnity or guaranty and
life or health or accident insurance; and
         b.   Offers of prizes, award or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest; and
         c.   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this state; and
         d.   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law.
         e.   Selling or advertising for sale of tickets or shares in any
lottery authorized under the Illinois lottery law 1 .
         f.   Activity that is lawfully conducted under the video gaming act if
such activity complies with all requirements of the video gaming act, 230
Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq.
   B.   Delivery Of Wagers: It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of
delivering wagers or bets. (Ord. 12-14-45)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 1605/1 et seq.
10-5-5-3: GAMBLING PLACES:
Any person who knowingly permits any premises or property owned or occupied by
him or under his control to be used as a gambling place shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. When any premises is determined by a court having jurisdiction to
be a gambling place:
   A.   Such premises is a public nuisance and may be proceeded against as
such, and
   B.   All licenses, permits or certificates issued by the state of Illinois
or any public agency thereof or the municipality authorizing the serving of
food or liquor on such premises shall be void; and no license, permit or
certificate so canceled shall be reissued for such premises for a period of
sixty (60) days thereafter; nor shall any person convicted of keeping a
gambling place be reissued such license within one year from his conviction,
and
   C.   Such premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a violation
of this section
10-5-5 shall be held liable for, and may be sold to pay any unsatisfied
judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied fine that may be levied
under any of said sections. (Ord. 77-24-45)
10-5-5-4: SEIZURE, DESTRUCTION OF DEVICES:
Every gambling device shall be subject to seizure, confiscation and destruction
by the village. (Ord. 77-24-45)
10-5-5-5: CHARITABLE GAMES ACT EVENTS:
The conducting of charitable games in full compliance with the charitable games
act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/1 et seq., shall not be prohibited.
(Ord. 92-02-11)
10-5-6: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS:
10-5-6-1: PROSTITUTION AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Acts Prohibited: The following acts shall be prohibited, and shall
constitute misdemeanor offenses:
      Keeping a place of prostitution
      Patronizing a prostitute
      Soliciting for a prostitute
      Pandering for money
   B.   Keeping A Place Of Prostitution Defined: Any person who has or
exercises control over the use of any place which could offer seclusion or
shelter for the practice of prostitution who performs any of the following acts
keeps a place of prostitution:
      1.   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such place for the purpose of
prostitution; or
      2.   Grants or permits the use of such place under circumstances from
which he could reasonably know that the place is used or is to be used for
purposes of prostitution; or
      3.   Permits the continued use of a place after becoming aware of facts
or circumstances from which he should reasonably know that the place is being
used for purposes of prostitution.
   C.   Patronizing A Prostitute Defined: Any person who performs any of the
following acts with a person not his spouse commits the offense of patronizing
a prostitute:
      1.   Engages in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct
with a prostitute; or
      2.   Enters or remains in a place of prostitution with intent to engage
in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct.
   D.   Soliciting For A Prostitute Defined: Any person who performs any of the
following acts commits soliciting for a prostitute:
      1.   Solicits another for the purpose of prostitution; or
      2.   Arranges or offers to arrange a meeting of persons for the purpose
of prostitution; or
      3.   Directs another to a place knowing such direction is for the purpose
of prostitution.
   E.   Pandering Defined: Any person who performs any of the following acts
for money commits pandering:
      1.   Compels a person to become a prostitute; or
      2.   Arranges or offers to arrange a situation in which a person may
practice prostitution.
   F.   Enticing Persons, Minors Prohibited: No person shall entice, influence
or persuade any person to enter or frequent any bawdyhouse, house of ill fame
or assignation house or place used for the practice of fornication or adultery,
or induce any minor to enter or frequent, or shall allow any minor to enter or
remain in such house or place in the village. (1951 Code 17-2-4, 17-2-5, 17-2-
6; 1969 Code 14-55, 14-56; 1985 Code)
10-5-6-2: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
   A.   Definitions: As used herein, the following terms shall have the
meanings hereafter ascribed to them:
   PUBLIC PLACE: Includes all outdoor places owned by or open to the general
public and all buildings and enclosed places owned by or open to the general
public, including such places of entertainment, taverns, restaurants, clubs,
theaters, dance halls, banquet halls, party rooms or halls limited to specific
members, restricted to adults or to patrons invited to attend, whether or not
an admission charge is levied.
   UNCLOTHED STATE: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic
hair or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering; the showing of the
female breast with less than a fully opaque covering on any part of the nipple
and areola; the exposure of any device, costume or covering which gives the
appearance of or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, natal cleft, perineum,
anal region or pubic hair region; or the exposure of any device worn as a cover
over the nipples and/or areola of the female breast, which device simulates and
gives the realistic appearance of nipples and/or areola.
   B.   Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly or
intentionally, in a public place:
      1.   Engage in sexual intercourse.
      2.   Engage in deviate sexual intercourse as defined by the Illinois
criminal code.
      3.   Appear in an unclothed state.
      4.   Fondle the genitals of himself, herself, or another person.
   C.   Prohibitions: The prohibition set forth in subsection B of this section
shall not apply to:
      1.   Any child under ten (10) years of age.
      2.   Any individual exposing a breast in the process of breastfeeding an
infant under two (2) years of age. (Ord. 08-04-17)
10-5-6-3: OBSCENITY:
   A.   Obscene Defined: Any material or performance is obscene if:
      1.   The average person, applying contemporary adult community standards,
would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient interest; and
      2.   The average person, applying contemporary adult community standards,
would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way, ultimate
sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or perverted, actual
or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the
genitals; and
      3.   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit obscenity. A
person commits obscenity when, with knowledge of the nature or content thereof,
or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have
disclosed the nature or content thereof, he:
      1.   Sells, delivers or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver or
provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene; or
      2.   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene; or
      3.   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
or
      4.   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his body for gain; or
      5.   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material with
intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal laws or
regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      6.   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented or
held out by him to be obscene.
   C.   Interpretation Of Evidence: Obscenity shall be judged with reference to
ordinary adults, except that it shall be judged with reference to children or
other specially susceptible audience if it appears from the character of the
material or the circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for
or directed to such an audience. Where circumstances of production,
presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that
material is being commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal,
such evidence is probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can
justify the conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary,
artistic, political or scientific value. In any prosecution for an offense
under this section evidence shall be admissible to show:
      1.   The character of the audience for which the material was designed or
to which it was directed;
      2.   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for ordinary
adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would probably have
on the behavior of such people;
      3.   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits of
the material, or absence thereof;
      4.   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
      5.   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising or
other promotion of the material;
      6.   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
   D.   Prima Facie Evidence: The creation, purchase, procurement or possession
of a mold, engraved plate or other embodiment of obscenity specially adapted
for reproducing multiple copies or the possession of more than three (3) copies
of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an intent to disseminate.
   E.   Affirmative Defenses: It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      1.   Was not for gain and made to personal associates other than children
under eighteen (18) years of age;
      2.   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material.
   F.   Prosecution: In the event that any person commits any offense listed in
this section, and said offense is also an offense under the Illinois Compiled
Statutes, and, because of prior convictions against said person under state law
said offense would be prosecuted as a felony if brought under the state law,
said person shall not be charged and prosecuted under this section, but shall
be charged and prosecuted under the applicable state law. (1951 Code 17-2-1;
Ord. 87-3-13)
10-5-6-4: LEWD, ABUSIVE LANGUAGE OR GESTURES:
No person shall utter any lewd words, or use any threatening or abusive
language toward any other person, tending to a breach of the peace, or shall
publicly make any obscene gesture to or about any person. (1951 Code 17-2-2)
10-5-7: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY:
10-5-7-1: DAMAGING, DEFACING PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   Buildings, Public Places: To injure, destroy or deface, or assist in
injuring, destroying or defacing any bridge, fence, building, schoolhouse,
church building, depot, house, public building, street, signs, lamps, lamppost,
sidewalk, or hydrant, or to write or place any indecent or bawdy words,
pictures or advertisements thereon.
   B.   Village Property: To damage, injure, deface or interfere with any
property belonging to the village without proper authority from the village
board.
   C.   Posters, Advertisements: Without lawful authority, to cover, mutilate,
deface, tear down, destroy or injure in any manner, any poster, bill or
advertisement lawfully placed upon any billboard or other place within the
village.
   D.   Grade Markers: To wilfully or heedlessly change, remove or destroy any
stone, stake or post set to mark the corner of any lot or parcel of ground,
street or alley, or to show the grade of any street, alley or sidewalk of the
village.
   E.   Driving Off Roadway: To ride or drive any vehicle on or across any
sidewalk, boulevard, or lawn, where there is no regular approach. (1951 Code 2-
8-6, 17-3-3, 17-3-5, 17-3-8, 17-3-9; Ord. 348)
10-5-7-2: OBSTRUCTING WATERWAYS, STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   Ditches, Sewers: To maliciously stop or obstruct the passage of water
in any street or public ditch or public sewer, culvert, water pipe or hydrant
laid or placed by the village.
   B.   Street Crossings, Intersections: To stop any vehicle on any crossing or
intersection in the village, or in any manner obstruct any crossing or
intersection except so far as may be necessary in passing over or across the
same. (1951 Code 17-3-4, 17-3-6)
10-5-7-3: TRESPASS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a trespass
within the village upon either public or private property.
   B.   Specifically Enumerated Trespass Suppression: Without constituting any
limitation upon the provisions of subsection A of this section, any of the
following acts by any person shall be deemed included among those that
constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of subsection A of this
section, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from
time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation of this section:
      1.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any
owner or occupant thereof; or
      2.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof; or
      3.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      4.   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(Ord. 73-35-67)
10-5-7-4: GRAFFITI PROHIBITED:
(Rep. by Ord. 06-07-34) (see section
8-1-7)
10-5-7-5: RETAIL THEFT:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall be defined as indicated:
   CONCEAL: To conceal merchandise means that, although there may be some
notice of its presence, the merchandise is not visible through ordinary
observation.
   FULL RETAIL VALUE: The merchant's stated or advertised price of the
merchandise.
   MERCHANDISE: Any item of tangible personal property.
   MERCHANT: An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or any
agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, director, franchisee or
independent contractor of such owner or operator.
   PERSON: Any natural person or individual.
   PREMISES OF A RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Includes, but is not limited
to, the retail mercantile establishment; any common use areas in shopping
centers and all parking areas set aside by a merchant or on behalf of a
merchant for the parking of vehicles for the convenience of the patrons of such
retail mercantile establishment.
   RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where merchandise is displayed,
held, stored or offered for sale to the public.
   B.   Offense Of Retail Theft: A person commits the offense of retail theft
when he or she knowingly:
      1.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred, any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise; or
      2.   Alters, transfers, or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia
of value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale, in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise personally or in
consort with another at less than the full retail value with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      3.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale, in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      4.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner
and thereby intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property when a lessee of the personal property of another fails to return
it to the owner, or if the lessee fails to pay the full retail value of such
property to the lessor in satisfaction of any contractual provision requiring
such, within thirty (30) days after written demand from the owner for its
return. A notice in writing, given after the expiration of the leasing
agreement, by registered mail, to the lessee at the address given by the lessee
and shown on the leasing agreement shall constitute proper demand; and
      5.   The full retail value of the property in question under either
subsection B1, B2, B3 or B4 of this section is less than fifty dollars
($50.00).
   C.   Severability: If any subsection, clause, sentence, paragraph or part of
this section is for any reason adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction
to be invalid, such judgment will not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder thereof, but shall be confined in its operation to the subsection,
clause, sentence, paragraph or part thereof directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered.
   D.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00).
      2.   In addition to, or in lieu of a fine as set forth in subsection D1
of this section, any person convicted of a violation of this section may be
required by the court to perform public/community service work.
   E.   Repeat Offenders: Any person convicted of retail theft under this
section, who is arrested for retail theft a second or further time, shall not
be charged under this section, but shall be charged under the state statute
provisions relating to retail theft, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16A-1 et
seq. (Ord. 95-20-79)
10-5-8: WEAPONS, FIREARMS:
   A.   Carrying, Displaying Weapons: No person in the village shall wear or
carry concealed about his person any pistol, revolver, slingshot, metallic
knuckles, bowie knife, dirk, razor, chemical mace or like substance, or other
dangerous or deadly weapons, or display or flourish any such weapon in a
boisterous or threatening manner; provided, that the provisions of this
subsection shall not be held to apply to any peace officer while in the
discharge of his duty, nor to any person summoned by an officer to aid him in
making any arrest or preserving the peace.
   B.   Certain Types Of Weapons Prohibited Or Restricted: No person in the
village shall sell, manufacture, or carry the following:
      1.   Two Or More Shots: Any weapon from which two (2) or more shots of
bullets may be discharged by a single function of the firing device.
      2.   Chemical Mace, Noxious Gas Prohibited; Exception: Any chemical mace,
noxious liquid gas, or like substance; except, however, that United States
postal service employees, in the course of their official duties, may use an
animal repellent in accordance with existing postal service regulations, on
attacking animals.
   C.   Discharging Firearms: No person shall fire or discharge, within the
village, any cannon, anvil, gun, pistol or firearm; provided, that the
discharge of firearms upon national holidays and in the celebration of other
public and general events, or the discharge of blank cartridges by a military
company when on parade and in command of the commanding officer, or the
discharge of firearms by any village officer or other person in the discharge
of any legal duty, when the same is done in such manner as not to endanger the
safety of any person or injure any property, shall not be deemed a violation of
this subsection, nor shall the discharge of firearms in duly licensed shooting
galleries.
   D.   Air Rifles, Slingshots And Bows And Arrows:
      1.   Definitions: That the following definitions apply to this
subsection:
   AIR RIFLE: Any air gun, air pistol, paintball gun, pellet gun or any
implement that is not a firearm which impels/propels a breakable paintball,
pellet, or other hard projectile at such a force that it is reasonably expected
to cause bodily harm or damage to property.
   BOW AND ARROW: Any prime equipment used in archery or bow hunting,
including, but not limited to, crossbows, arrows or darts.
   MINOR: Any individual under the age of eighteen (18).
   SLINGSHOT: Any device of any kind, shape or size which utilizes a spring or
elastic band, alone or in conjunction with a physical act, to propel a
projectile.
      2.   Discharge: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any air
rifle, slingshot, or bow and arrow on any street, public parkway, public alley,
park, other public area within the village, or across the private property of
any other person without permission.
      3.   Possession:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or carry, either
concealed or unconcealed, an air rifle, slingshot, or bow and arrow, on or
about his person or within a motor vehicle, except when on his land, abode, or
fixed place of business. Notwithstanding the foregoing, air rifles, slingshots
and bows and arrows may be transferred by motor vehicles if:
            (1)   The air rifle, slingshot or bow and arrow is unloaded;
            (2)   The air rifle, slingshot or bow and arrow is contained in a
carrying case; and
            (3)   The carrying case is in the trunk or other compartment
separate from the driver and passengers.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to possess any air rifle,
slingshot or bow and arrow at any time, except within his house of residence or
when accompanied by an adult who is the minor's parent or guardian or adult
instructor specified by the parent or guardian.
      4.   Transfers: It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer or sell
an air rifle, slingshot or bow and arrow to any minor, except when the
recipient minor is the child or ward of the transferor.
      5.   False Statements: It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely
represent his/her age to be eighteen (18) years or more in connection with the
possession, discharge or transfer of an air rifle, slingshot or bow and arrow.
      6.   Exceptions: This subsection D is not intended to prevent the use of
air rifles, slingshots and bows and arrows which do not endanger persons and
property when such use is:
         a.   Wholly upon a person's private property and that person is either
a nonminor, or a minor supervised by a parent or guardian or adult instructor
designated by the parent or guardian; or
         b.   At a licensed shooting gallery where the person is either a
nonminor, or a minor supervised by a parent or guardian or adult instructor
designated by the parent or guardian.
      7.   Forfeiture: Any person convicted of violating this subsection D
shall forfeit the air rifle, slingshot or bow and arrow to the village.
      8.   Penalties: Persons convicted of a violation of any part of this
subsection shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), with each offense constituting a
separate and distinct violation. (1951 Code 17-4-10, 17-4-11; Ords. 82-1-4, 82-
7-24, 95-20-80)
10-5-9: LIGHTED TOBACCO PRODUCTS PROHIBITED 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke or carry a lighted cigarette,
cigar or pipe, or to use or smoke an electronic cigarette in or on any of the
following places:
   A.   A bus or other public conveyance having a capacity of more than seven
(7) passengers operating within the limits of the village.
   B.   A moving picture theater.
   C.   Any public meeting place where "No Smoking" signs are posted.
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined not less
than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each offense. (Ord. 16-12-44)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 12 of this code.
10-5-10: SETTING BONFIRES:
(Rep. by Ord. 07-04-15)
10-5-11: DISRUPTIVE PUBLIC CONDUCT:
   A.   Loitering: All persons are prohibited from loitering in places, at
times, or in a manner that warrants alarm for the safety of persons or property
or otherwise disrupts the reasonable peace and enjoyment of bystanders in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether such alarm is warranted is the fact that the actor takes flight upon
the appearance of a peace officer, refuses to identify himself, or manifestly
endeavors to conceal himself or any object. Unless flight by the actor or other
circumstances make it impracticable, a peace officer shall, prior to any arrest
for an offense under this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel
any alarm which would otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to
identify himself or herself and explain the person's presence and conduct. No
persons shall be convicted of an offense under this section if the peace
officer did not comply with the preceding sentence or if it appears at trial
that the explanation given by the person was true and, if believed by the peace
officer at the time, would have dispelled the alarm.
   B.   Begging: All persons are prohibited from aggressive panhandling,
panhandling after sunset and before sunrise, or physically approaching others
to panhandle in public areas. For the purposes of this subsection, the
following definitions shall apply:
   AGGRESSIVE PANHANDLING: To panhandle in a manner that would intimidate a
reasonable person into giving money or goods.
   INTIMIDATE: To engage in conduct which would make a reasonable person
fearful or feel compelled.
   PANHANDLING: To ask for money or goods whether by words, signs, bodily
gestures, or other means.
   C.   Obstructing: All persons are prohibited from intentionally obstructing
pedestrian or vehicular traffic on sidewalks, roads, or other public or private
property used for passage by walking, standing, sitting, lying, or placing an
object in such a manner as to block passage by another person or a vehicle of
any kind or to require another person or driver of a vehicle of any kind to
take evasive action to avoid physical contact. Bicycles, baby carriages or
strollers, and grocery carts are among the vehicles covered by this section.
Acts authorized as an exercise of one's constitutional right to picket or to
legally protest shall not constitute obstruction of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic.
   D.   Loitering For The Purpose Of Engaging In Drug Related Activity: All
persons are prohibited from loitering in or near any thoroughfare, place open
to the public, or near any public or private place with the intent to solicit,
entice, induce, or procure another to exchange, buy, sell, or use illegal drugs
or drug paraphernalia.
   E.   Loitering For The Purpose Of Engaging In Prostitution: All persons are
prohibited from remaining, wandering, or loitering in a public place with the
intent to solicit or procure sexual activity for hire.
   F.   Public Benches: In order to make public benches owned by any public
body available for use by multiple citizens, all persons are prohibited from
occupying a space on a public bench for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive minutes without having during that period vacated the use of that
bench for a period of at least fifteen (15) consecutive minutes. (Ord. 12-15-
51)
10-5-12: RESISTING POLICE OFFICERS; AIDING ESCAPE:
No person shall resist any member of the police force in the discharge of his
duty, nor in any way interfere with or prevent him from discharging his duty as
such member, nor offer or endeavor to do so; nor in any manner assist any
person in custody of any member of the police force to escape or attempt to
escape from such custody, nor rescue any person in custody 1 . (1951 Code 3-9)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 6-1-8A of this code for officers enforcing building code.
10-5-13: FALSE ALARMS:
No person shall knowingly give any false alarms of fire or other casualty, or
give any false cry for assistance. (1951 Code 17-4-8)
10-5-14: FALSE WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to sell or offer for sale
any commodity or article of merchandise of any kind whatsoever, whether sold by
dry, liquid, linear, superficial or cubic measurement, or by weight, or by any
unit of enumeration used in determining or measuring quantity, in quantities of
less measure, weight or enumeration than the weight, measure or enumeration
represented by the vendor, his agent or employee upon such sale or offer for
sale. It shall further be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any
commodity in any receptacle containing a less quantity than it is represented
at the time of such offer or sale to contain, or any article measured by dry
measure that shall not be heaped up measure in accordance with the provisions
of this section, or to sell or offer for sale any article of dry measurement
other than a legal dry measure, or any article of liquid measurement in other
than a legal liquid measure. (1951 Code 8-8)
10-5-15: CARE OF LIBRARY BOOKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to write upon, deface, tear, damage or fail
to return any book belonging to, or in the possession or under the control of
the board of library directors of the village. (Ord. 74-24-44)
10-5-16: NOISY CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR OR RECONSTRUCTION OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful and a nuisance to conduct any building (construction,
repair or reconstruction) operations which involve the operation of any steam
shovels, pneumatic hammers, steam or electric hoists or other apparatus, the
use of which is attended with loud or unusual noise, between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., at any location within the
village in relation to which the majority of the buildings within a radius of
one hundred fifty feet (150') are used exclusively for residential purposes.
The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to emergency situations
where the building (construction, repair or reconstruction) operations are
being undertaken in response to a situation that poses an immediate threat to
the health, safety and welfare of the surrounding residents. (Ord. 91-05-22)
10-5-17: PLAYING AROUND RAILROAD EQUIPMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to play on or about any railroad track,
depot, locomotive or car within the village, or climb upon or jump from one car
to another. All railroad employees shall be empowered to arrest persons found
violating this section. (1951 Code 17-4-5)
10-5-18: HARMFUL ARTICLES IN STREETS:
No person shall throw, cast, put into, drop, or leave in or on any street,
alley or sidewalk, public place, or an enclosed public grounds in the village,
any stone, missiles, nails, glass, ice, iron or any other metal, or any other
article by which pedestrians may be injured or endangered. (1951 Code 17-3-2)
10-5-19: THROWING MISSILES:
No person shall throw or cast any stone or missile upon or at any building,
railroad cars, tree or public property, or upon or at any person in any street,
avenue, lane, public place or enclosed or unenclosed ground in the village, or
aid or abet in the same. (1951 Code 17-3-2)
10-5-20: HARASSMENT BY TELEPHONE:
   A.   Harassment by telephone is the use of telephone communication for any
of the following purposes:
      1.   Making any comment, request, suggestion or proposition which is
obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent with an intent to offend; or
      2.   Making any telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, with
intent to abuse, threaten or harass any person at the called number; or
      3.   Making or causing the telephone of another repeatedly to ring, with
the intent to harass any person at the called number; or
      4.   Making repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues,
solely to harass any person at the called number; or
      5.   Knowingly permitting any telephone under one's control to be used
for any of the purposes mentioned herein.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person doing business within the village
to engage in harassment by telephone.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined not
to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   D.   1. In addition, any violation of the above may result in the revocation
of the offending person's business license, permit and/or certificate by the
village manager. Notice of hearing for such a revocation shall be given in
writing stating the grounds of the complaint together with the time and place
of hearing and shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the business at the address
given in the business license, certificate or permit application for said
business at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing.
      2.   A person aggrieved by a decision of the village manager in revoking
a business license, certificate and/or permit shall have the right to appeal to
the president and board of trustees. Such appeal shall be taken by filing a
notice of appeal including a statement of the grounds for the appeal with the
village clerk within ten (10) days after the notice of the decision by the
village manager has been given. The president and board of trustees shall set
the time and place for hearing such appeal and notice of such time and place
shall be given in the same manner as specified hereinabove. The president and
board of trustees shall have the power to reverse, affirm, or modify the
decision of the village manager and any such decision of the village manager
and any such decision made by the president and board of trustees shall be
final. (Ords. 85-10-28, 99-5-11)
10-5-21: PAWNBROKERS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Every person which engages in the business of receiving property in
pledge or as security for money or other thing advanced to the pledger and
which person is given authority to sell or dispose of said property as set out
in the pawnbroker regulation act, 205 Illinois Compiled Statutes 510/1 et seq.,
shall be held and is hereby declared and defined to be a "pawnbroker".
   B.   No pawnbroker or pawnbrokers shall conduct business within the
boundaries of the village. (Ord. 93-12-42)
10-5-22: REGULATION OF LASER POINTERS:
   A.   Findings: The president and board of trustees have made the following
findings in regard to laser pointers:
      1.   That the use of laser pointers, as defined in subsection C of this
section, possesses the potential for eye injury; and
      2.   That the use of laser pointers by persons less than eighteen (18)
years of age must be controlled and regulated in order to safeguard the public
health, safety and welfare.
   B.   Definitions: The following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to
them for the purposes of this section:
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
court, but it does not include a person appointed guardian or given custody of
a minor under the juvenile court act 1 , as amended.
MINOR: Any person who has not yet attained the age of eighteen (18).
   C.   Possession Of Laser Pointers By Underage Persons Prohibited: No minor
shall possess within the village any laser pointer of the following type:
      1.   A helium neon (HeNe) laser which typically operates at a wavelength
of 632.8 nMe with the mandated power limit of five (5) mW of power. Said lasers
are considered class 2 lasers with the potential for eye injury; or
      2.   A diode laser which typically operates at a wavelength of six
hundred seventy (670) nMe (although others are possible) with a power source
providing five (5) mW of power. Said lasers are considered class 3A lasers,
with the potential for eye injury.
   D.   Exceptions: The prohibition set forth in subsection C of this section
shall not apply to:
      1.   A minor using such a laser pointer while under the immediate
supervision of his or her parent or legal guardian;
      2.   A student using such a laser pointer while under the immediate
supervision of his or her teacher; or
      3.   An employee using such a laser pointer at the direction and under
the supervision of his or her employer.
   E.   Transfer Or Sale To A Minor Prohibited: No person shall sell to or
provide a minor with a laser pointer, as defined in subsection C of this
section. This prohibition shall not apply to:
      1.   A parent or legal guardian assisting and supervising his or her own
child or ward in the use of such a laser pointer;
      2.   A teacher assisting and supervising his or her student in the use of
such a laser pointer; or
      3.   An employer assisting and supervising his or her employee in the use
of such a laser pointer.
   F.   Liability Of Parent Or Legal Guardian: The parent or legal guardian of
an unemancipated minor who resides with such parent or legal guardian shall be
subject to the parental responsibility provisions of section
10-4-3 of this title relative to any violation of this section by said
unemancipated minor.
   G.   Penalties: Any person found guilty of violating any provision set forth
in this section shall be subject to the penalties set forth in section
10-4-3-6 of this title. (Ord. 98-22-99)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1.
10-5-23: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   For purposes of this section, the term "cannabis" shall include
marijuana, hashish, and other substances which are identified as including any
part of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof;
the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and any compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin,
including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other cannabinol derivatives,
including its naturally occurring or synthetically produced ingredients,
whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or independently by
means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction and chemical
synthesis. However, this term shall not include the mature stalks of such
plant; fiber produced from such stalks; oil or cake made from the seeds of such
plant; any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom);
fiber, oil, cake; or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of
germination.
DELIVER OR DELIVERY: The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession of cannabis, with or without consideration, whether or not there is
an agency relationship.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place where a person could reasonably be expected to be
observed by others. "Public place" includes all parts of buildings owned in
whole or in part, or leased, by the State or a unit of local government.
"Public place" includes all areas in a park, recreation area, wildlife area, or
playground owned in whole or in part, leased, or managed by the State or a unit
of local government. "Public place" does not include a private residence unless
the private residence is used to provide licensed childcare, foster care, or
other similar social service care on the premises.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It shall be a violation of this ordinance for any person who is
twenty-one (21) years of age or older to knowingly possess cannabis, as defined
in Section 46-25, in excess of the following quantities:
         a.   Thirty (30) grams of cannabis flower;
         b.   No more than five hundred (500) milligrams of THC contained in
cannabis-infused product; and
         c.   Five (5) grams of cannabis concentrate.
The possession limits found in the subsection of this Section are to be
considered cumulative. Further, no person shall knowingly obtain, seek to
obtain, or possess an amount of cannabis from a dispensing organization or
craft grower that would cause him or her to exceed the possession limit under
the Section, including cannabis that is cultivated by a person under the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/1-1 et
seq.) or obtained under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act
(410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 130/1 et. seq.). For registered qualifying
patients, any cannabis produced by cannabis plants grown under subsection (b)
of Section 10-5 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, shall be allowed
provided that any amount of cannabis produced in excess of 30 grams of raw
cannabis or its equivalent must remain secured within the residence or
residential property in which it was grown.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to possess cannabis in any of the
following locations:
         a.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the "Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act",
410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 130/1 et seq.
         b.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
"Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act".
         c.   In any correctional facility.
         d.   In a vehicle not open to the public unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving.
         e.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed childcare or other similar social service care on the premises.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to use cannabis in any of the
following locations:
         a.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the "Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act".
         b.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
"Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act".
         c.   In any correctional facility.
         d.   In any motor vehicle.
         e.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises.
         f.   In any public place.
         g.   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under twenty-one
(21) years of age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the
"Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act".
      4.   It is unlawful for any person to smoke cannabis in any place where
smoking is prohibited under the "Smoke Free Illinois Act", 410 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 82/1 et seq.
      5.    It is unlawful for any person to facilitate the use of cannabis by
any person who is not allowed to use cannabis under the "Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act", 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/1-1 et seq., or the
"Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act".
      6.   It is unlawful for any person to transfer cannabis to any person
contrary to the "Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act" or the "Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act".
      7.   It is unlawful for any person who has a school bus permit or a
commercial driver's license to use cannabis while on duty.
      8.   It is unlawful for any person to otherwise knowingly possess, use or
deliver any substance containing cannabis unless permitted or authorized to do
so pursuant to the "Cannabis Control Act", 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/
1 et seq.; the "Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act"; or the "Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act", as amended, respectively.
      9.    It is unlawful for any person to knowingly suffer, permit, or allow
the violation of the provisions of this section in any motor vehicle,
conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or other area
of which such person is the owner, lessee, permittee, bailee, legal possessor
or occupier thereof.
      10.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit his
or her residence, any other private property under his or her control, or any
vehicle, conveyance, or watercraft under his or her control to be used by an
invitee of the parent's child or the guardian's ward, if the invitee is under
the age of twenty-one (21), in a manner that constitutes a violation of this
section. A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted his or her
residence, any other private property under his or her control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under his or her control to be used in violation of
this section if he or she knowingly authorizes or permits consumption of
cannabis by underage invitees. In this subsection, where the residence or other
property has an owner and a tenant or lessee, the trier of fact may infer that
the residence or other property is occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
   C.   Prima Facie Proof: Whenever a person is present within any motor
vehicle, conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or
other area of which such person is the owner, lessee, permittee, bailee, legal
possessor or occupier at the time that a violation of the provisions of this
section occurs therein, said presence shall be prima facie evidence that such
person had knowledge of such violation.
   D.   It is unlawful for a person under age 18 to possess any amount of
cannabis, subject to a civil law violation under the Cannabis Control Act, 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/4(a). If possessing cannabis while driving a
motor vehicle, the person under eighteen (18) may also be subject to driver's
license suspension under the Illinois Vehicle Code. The Juvenile Court Act was
amended to prohibit taking a minor into a municipal lockup, jail, or
corrections facility solely for underage consumption or underage possession,
705 Illinois Compiled Statutes405/5-401(3). As such, juveniles who are arrested
solely for possessing cannabis unlawfully will be cited with a civil law
violation only, and not taken into custody for processing at a district station
or the Juvenile Intervention Support Center ("JISC") for other municipal
violations related to underage use or possession of cannabis. Criminal
penalties for delivery or possession with intent to deliver cannabis remain
enforceable against juveniles, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/5.
   E.   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 05-15-46, 22-13-45)
10-5-24: TRICK-OR-TREATING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the act commonly known or
referred to as "trick-or-treating" at any time other than Halloween Day
(October 31) between the hours of three o'clock (3:00) P.M. and eight o'clock
(8:00) P.M., provided however, that should Halloween Day fall on a Saturday or
Sunday, the permitted hours for "trick-or-treating" shall be twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
It shall be the duty and responsibility of the parents to see that their
children engage in no soliciting other than in compliance with this section and
all children under the age of ten (10) years engaging in the act commonly known
as "trick- or-treating" shall be accompanied by a parent or guardian after
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. (Ord. 12-20-65)
TITLE 11
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
VEHICLE LICENSES
(Rep. by Ord. 18-10-25)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Definitions
11-2-2: Applicability Of Provisions
11-2-3: Obedience By Public Officers And Employees, Exceptions
11-2-4: Police Authorized To Direct Traffic, Obedience Required
11-2-5: Animals, Animal Drawn Vehicles
11-2-6: Traffic Control Signs And Signals
11-2-7: Accidents, Requirements
11-2-8: Regulations In Semipublic Areas
11-2-9: Automobile Parts, Possession And Sale By Police Department
11-2-10: Fleeing, Attempting To Elude Peace Officer
11-2-11: Opening Doors Into Traffic
11-2-12: Obstructing Traffic
11-2-13: Injurious Substances On Streets
11-2-14: Riding On Certain Vehicles Prohibited
11-2-15: Clinging To Moving Vehicles
11-2-16: Use Of Coasters, Roller Skates
11-2-17: Obstructions To Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
11-2-18: Following, Parking Near Fire Apparatus
11-2-19: Enforcement, Violations, Penalties
11-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this Title shall, for the purposes
hereof, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Section:
ALLEY: A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department,
and ambulances and emergency vehicles of Municipal departments or public
service corporations as are designated by the Chief of Police or authorized by
Illinois Compiled Statutes.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is more than sixteen inches (16")
in diameter.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory of the Village, contiguous to and including a
street when within any six hundred feet (600') along such street there are
buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including but not limited
to hotels, banks, or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings
which occupy at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or
three hundred feet (300') collectively on both sides of the street.
CHAUFFEUR:
   A.   All persons employed by another for the principal purpose of driving a
motor vehicle, and
   B.   All persons who drive a school bus transporting children, and
   C.   All persons employed in connection with the operation of any school,
day camp, summer camp, or nursery school, who drive any motor vehicle
transporting children to or from any school, day camp, summer camp or nursery
school, and
   D.   All persons who drive any motor vehicle when in use for the
transportation of persons or property for compensation;
Except, the term "chauffeur" shall not include any person who operates a road
machine, a farm tractor or a motor vehicle incidental to some other and
principal occupation where the motor vehicle is operated solely and in
furtherance of such other and principal occupation, provided that the motor
vehicle is not used for the transportation of passengers or property for hire.
COMBINATION OF VEHICLES: Every combination of vehicles includes any combination
of two (2) vehicles, any combination of truck tractor with semi-trailer drawing
one trailer, and any combination of a truck in transit drawing two (2) trucks
in transit coupled together by the dual saddle-mount method.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
CONTROLLED ACCESS STREET: Every street or highway in respect to which owners or
occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of access to
or from the same except at such points only as may be determined by the public
authority having jurisdiction over such street, highway or roadway.
CROSSWALK:
   A.   That portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the prolongation
or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks on opposite sides of the street
measured along curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of the
traversable roadway.
   B.   Any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing
by lines or other markings on the surface.
CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
DEPARTMENT: The Department of Public Works and Buildings, of the State of
Illinois, acting directly or through its duly authorized officers or agent.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EXPLOSIVE: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportion,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion, or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled.
FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Any liquid which has a flash point of seventy degrees (70o)
Fahrenheit or less, as determined by a tagliabue closed cup test device.
FREIGHT LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of material or passenger.
GROSS WEIGHT: The weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any load
thereon.
HOUSE CAR or CAMPER: Any motor vehicle that is originally designed or
subsequently altered, equipped for human habitation, which is not used to
transport property on its own structure other than property used for human
habitation or camping purposes.
HOUSE TRAILER:
   A.   A trailer or semi-trailer which is designed, constructed and equipped
as a dwelling place, living abode or sleeping place (either permanently or
temporarily) and is equipped for use as a conveyance on streets and highways,
or
   B.   A trailer or semi-trailer whose chassis and exterior shell is designed
and constructed for use as a house trailer, and defined in paragraph A above,
but which is used instead permanently or temporarily for the advertising,
sales, display or promotion of merchandise or services, or for any other
commercial purpose except the transportation of property for hire or the
transportation of property for distribution by a private carrier.
IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY: Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry, provided that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer or like vehicle having a capacity of more than four hundred (400)
bushels or a gross weight of more than thirty thousand (30,000) pounds, shall
be included hereunder.
IMPROVED STREET: Whenever the term "improved street" is used in this Title, it
shall be construed to include roadways of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
gravel.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) streets which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL: An electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a
square or rectangular design and employing distinctive colors or symbols used
to control the direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the
indication applies.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
LICENSE TO OPERATE A MOTOR VEHICLE: Any operator's or chauffeur's license or
any other license or permit to operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of
this State including:
   A.   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
   B.   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle whether or not
such person holds a valid license;
   C.   Any nonresident operating privilege as defined herein.
LOCAL TRAFFIC: Vehicular traffic travelling to a specific destination on any
street or highway designated by the posting of an appropriate sign designating
"Local Traffic Only".
MERGING TRAFFIC: A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on converging
roadways to permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction thereof,
wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his vehicular
speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any other vehicle.
METAL TIRE: Every tire the surface of which in contact with the highway is
wholly or partly of metal or other hard nonresilient material.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground
but excluding a tractor.
MOPED: "Moped" is an abbreviated term for a motorized pedal-cycle. This vehicle
may be pedaled like a bicycle or may operate on engines like a motorcycle.
Motors are limited to a maximum of fifty (50) cubic centimeters piston
displacement, producing a top speed of not more than thirty (30) miles per hour
on level ground and having two (2.0) brake horsepower or less. All such
vehicles shall have as accessory equipment a rearview mirror and turning
signals.
MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE: Every motorcycle, including every motor scooter, every
bicycle with motor attached or motor bicycle, with less than one hundred fifty
(150) cubic centimeters piston displacement.
MOTOR SCOOTER: Any two (2) or three (3) wheeled motor vehicle having a wheel
diameter not in excess of nineteen inches (19") and designed to travel on not
more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, but excluding a tractor.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is propelled otherwise than by muscular
power, including but not limited to motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, pole
trailers, reconstructed vehicles, road tractors, school buses, semitrailers,
special mobile equipment, specially constructed vehicles, tractless trailer
coaches, trailers, trucks, truck tractors. Motor vehicles which are designed
and used for the carrying of not more than ten (10) persons shall be classified
as motor vehicles of the first division. Those motor vehicles of the first
division which have been remodelled for use as vehicles of the second division,
any motor vehicles designed or used for living quarters, and those motor
vehicles which are designed and used for pulling or carrying freight or which
are used for the carrying of more than ten (10) persons, shall be called motor
vehicles of the second division.
OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall mean
the time standard currently prevailing.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices not
inconsistent with this Title placed or erected by authority of a public body or
official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding
traffic.
OPERATOR: Every person, other than a chauffeur, who drives or is in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle upon a highway or who is exercising control
over or steering a vehicle being towed by a motor vehicle.
OWNER: A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject to an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the condition stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this Title.
PARK: When prohibited means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE: A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, or corporation.
PNEUMATIC TIRE: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
POLE TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole,
or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and ordinarily
used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles, pipes or
structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as beams
between the supporting connections.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner not by other persons.
RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars, operated upon stationary
rails.
RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL: Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of a
public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
REGISTRATION: The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates issued under the laws of this State pertaining to the registration of
vehicles.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory of the Village, contiguous to and including a
street not comprising a business district when the property on such street for
a distance of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
RESIDENT: Every natural person who resides in this State shall be deemed a
resident of this State. In the case of a firm, copartnership or association, if
the principal place of business of such firm, copartnership or association is
located in the State of Illinois, then such firm, copartnership or association
shall be deemed a resident of the State of Illinois. In the case of a
corporation, if the corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of
Illinois or if the principal place of business of such corporation is in the
State of Illinois, then such corporation shall be deemed a resident of the
State of Illinois.
REVERSIBLE LANE: A lane of a two (2) or more laned roadways upon which traffic
may be directed to move in either direction by means of lane-control signals or
other devices, in conjunction with official signs.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles
and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any
part of the weight of the vehicle or load so drawn.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a street
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle owned or operated by or for a public or
governmental agency or by or for a private or religious organization for the
transportation of pupils in connection with any school activity. This
definition does not include a bus operated by a public utility or a Municipal
corporation authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers.
SEMI-PUBLIC AREAS: Parking and adjacent roadways and areas near or contiguous
to schools, park district property, shopping centers, drive-ins, theaters or
other commercial establishments within the corporate limits of the Village
whereon public, pedestrian and vehicular traffic is invited for ingress, egress
and parking.
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
SPECIAL MOBILE EQUIPMENT: Every vehicle not designed or used primarily for the
transportation of persons or property and only incidentally operated or moved
over a highway, including but not limited to: ditch digging apparatus and road
construction and maintenance machinery such as asphalt spreaders, bituminous
mixers, bucket loaders, tractors other than truck tractors, ditchers, levelling
graders, finishing machines, motor graders, road rollers, scarifiers, earth
moving carryalls and scrapers, power shovels and drag lines, and self-propelled
cranes and earth moving equipment. The term does not include house trailers,
dump trucks, truck mounted transmit mixers, cranes or shovels, or other
vehicles designed for the transportation of persons or property to which
machinery has been attached.
SPECIALLY CONSTRUCTED VEHICLE: Every vehicle of a type required to be
registered not originally constructed under a distinctive name, make, model or
type by a generally recognized manufacturer of vehicles and not materially
altered from its original construction.
SPEED-CHANGE LANE: An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes.
STATE HIGHWAY: Whenever the term "State highway" is used in this Title, it
shall be construed to include the highways, as defined in the Illinois Highway
Code 1  as the same may from time to time be amended.
STINGER-STEERED SEMI-TRAILER: Every semi-trailer which has its kingpin on a
projection to the front of the structure of such semi-trailer and is combined
with the fifth wheel of the truck tractor at a point not less than two feet
(2') to the rear of the center of the rearmost axle of such tractor.
STOP: When required means complete cessation from movement.
STOP, STOPPING or STANDING: When prohibited means any stopping or standing,
even momentarily, of a vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
STREET or HIGHWAY: The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purpose of vehicular traffic other than
public ways for vehicular traffic within a park district for which the park
district has maintenance responsibility.
SUBURBAN DISTRICT: That portion of this Village other than the business and
residence districts.
THROUGH STREET or HIGHWAY: Every street or highway or portion thereof on which
vehicular traffic is given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to
which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to yield right of way to vehicles on such through streets or highways in
obedience to either a stop sign or a yield sign, when signs are erected as
provided in this Title or the State of Illinois.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other conveyances
either singly or together while using any street for purpose of travel.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices not
inconsistent with the "Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways" 2  placed or
erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction for the
purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternatively directed to stop and
to proceed.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a
quarter of a mile.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign means the act of granting
the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic
within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left, but
when the roadway is clear may proceed into the intersection. (1951 Code
4-1-1 - 4-1-16; Ords. 319, 70-3-2, 78-20-51, 92-19-69)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 225 ILCS.
2 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS 5/11-301 et seq.
11-2-2: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   To Vehicles on Streets: The provisions of this Title relating to the
operation of vehicles refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon
streets or in places normally open to the public for purposes of vehicular
travel except:
      1.   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section.
      2.   The provisions of Section
11-2-7 and Sections
11-3-2,
11-3-4 and
11-3-6 of this Title shall apply upon streets and elsewhere throughout the
Village.
   B.   Effect on Rights of Property Owners: Nothing in this Title shall be
construed to prevent the owner of real property used by the public for purposes
of vehicular travel by permission of the owner and not as matter of right from
prohibiting such use, or from requiring other or different or additional
conditions than those specified in this Title, or otherwise regulating such use
as may seem best to such owner. (1969 Code 13-2, 13-7)
11-2-3: OBEDIENCE BY PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES, EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this Title applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon
the streets shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the
United States, this State or any county, city, town, district or any other
political subdivision of the State, except as provided in this Section and
subject to such specific exceptions as are set forth in this Title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   B.   The driver of any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call upon approaching a red or stop signal or any stop sign, shall
slow down as necessary for safety but except otherwise provided in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-1421, may proceed cautiously past such red or stop sign
or signal. At other times drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall stop
in obedience to a stop sign or signal.
   C.   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any special
privilege under this Title except when such vehicle is operated in response to
an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected
violator of the law.
   D.   The provisions of this Title, with the exception of Section
11-2-7 hereof and Sections
11-3-2,
11-3-4 and
11-3-6 of this Title, shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in work upon the surface of the highway
but shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such
work. (1951 Code 14-4-22)
11-2-4: POLICE AUTHORIZED TO DIRECT TRAFFIC, OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this Title, or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a
policeman. Except in cases of emergency it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by the Chief of Police to direct or attempt to direct traffic. (1951
Code 14-2-18)
11-2-5: ANIMALS, ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES:
Every person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle
upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this Title applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions of this Title which by their
nature can have no application. (1951 Code 14-2-17)
11-2-6: TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
   A.   Obedience to Traffic-Control Devices Required: No driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the instructions of any traffic-control device placed in
accordance with the provisions of law or this Title, unless at the time
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   When Signs Required: No provision of this Title for which signs are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official sign is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that signs are required, such section shall
be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
   C.   Manual, Specifications for Traffic-Control Devices: All traffic-control
signs, signals, and devices shall be made and erected to conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the State Department of Public Works and
Buildings. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the
Village. All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the
provisions of State law or this Title shall be official traffic-control
devices.
   D.   Avoiding Traffic-Control Devices Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person to leave the roadway and travel across private property to avoid an
official traffic-control device.
   E.   Unauthorized Signs, Signals or Markings: No person shall place,
maintain or display upon or in view of any street any unauthorized sign,
signal, marking or device which purports to be or is an imitation of or
resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad sign or signal, or
which attempts to direct the movement of traffic nor shall any person place,
maintain or display upon or in view of any street any other sign which hides
from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the effectiveness of
any traffic-control devices or any railroad sign, or signal, and no person
shall place or maintain nor shall the Village permit upon any street any
traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising, and any
policeman may remove or cause to be removed any such sign or signal.
   F.   Interference with Traffic-Control Devices, Railroad Signs or Signals:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, interfere with, or remove any official traffic-control
device, or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia
thereon, or any other part thereof. (1951 Code 14-4-21, 14-4-25, 14-4-26; 1969
Code 13-9, 13-10, 13-11, 13-24)
11-2-7: ACCIDENTS, REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Involving Death or Personal Injury:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at the
scene of such accident, or as close thereto as possible and shall then
forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at, the scene of the
accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of subsection C herein. Every
such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
      2.   Any person who has failed to stop or to comply with said
requirements shall, within forty eight (48) hours after such accident or, if
hospitalized and incapacitated from reporting at any time during such period,
within forty eight (48) hours after being discharged from the hospital, report
the place of accident, the date, the approximate time, his name, address, the
registration number of the vehicle driven, and the names of the occupants, if
any, of such vehicle, at a police station or sheriff's office near the place
where such accident occurred. No report made as required under this subsection
shall be used, directly or indirectly, as a basis for the prosecution of any
violation of subsection A1 of this Section.
   B.   Involving Damage to Vehicle: The driver of any vehicle involved in an
accident resulting only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by
any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or
as close thereto as possible but shall forthwith return to and in every event
shall remain at the scene of such accident until he has fulfilled the
requirements of subsection C herein. Every such stop shall be made without
obstructing traffic more than is necessary. Failure to comply with this
subsection is punishable in accordance with subsection 11-2-19C.
   C.   Give information, Render Aid: The driver of any vehicle involved in an
accident resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle
which is driven or attended by any person shall give his name, address, and the
registration number of the vehicle he is driving and shall, upon request and if
available, exhibit his operator's or chauffeur's license to the person struck
or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with and
shall render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance,
including the carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of such
person to a physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment,
if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is
requested by the injured person.
If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this subsection is
in condition to receive and understand such information and no police officer
is present, such driver after rendering reasonable assistance shall forthwith
report such accident at the nearest office of a duly authorized police
authority, disclosing the information required by this Section.
   D.   Duty on Striking Unattended Vehicle: The driver of any vehicle which
collides with any vehicle which is unattended shall immediately stop and shall
then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle
of the name and address of the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the
unattended vehicle or shall leave in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck
a written notice giving the name and address of the driver and of the owner of
the vehicle doing the striking and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
   E.   Duty on Striking Fixtures or Property on Streets: The driver of any
vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage to fixtures or other
property legally upon or adjacent to a street shall take reasonable steps to
locate and notify the owner or persons in charge of such property of such fact
and of his name and address and of the registration number of the vehicle he is
driving and shall upon request and if available exhibit his operator's or
chauffeur's license and shall make report of such accident when and as required
in subsection F1 of this Section.
   F.   Reports Required:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident within the Village, resulting in injury to or death of a person, or in
which damage to the property of any person, including himself, is sustained,
shall, as soon as possible forward a written report of such accident to the
Police Department.
      2.   The Police Department may require any driver, occupant or owner of a
vehicle involved in an accident of which report must be made as provided in
this subsection or subsection J of this Section, to file supplemental reports
whenever the original report is insufficient in the opinion of the Police
Department, and may require witnesses of the accident to submit reports to the
Department.
   G.   Immediate Notice Required: The driver of a vehicle which is in any
manner involved in an accident described in subsection F of this Section shall
immediately and by the fastest means of communication submit notice of the
accident at the nearest office of a duly authorized police authority.
   H.   Reports By Police: Every Village policeman who investigates a vehicle
accident, of which a report is required by this Section or who prepares a
written report as a result of an investigation either at the time and scene of
such accident or thereafter by interviewing participants or witnesses shall
forward a written report of such accident to the Police Department.
   I.   False Reports: Any person who provides information in an oral or
written report required by this Section with knowledge or reason to believe
that such information is false shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   J.   Failure Of Driver To Report: Whenever the driver of a vehicle is
physically incapable of making a required accident report and if there was
another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of making a
report, such occupant shall make or cause to be made said report. If such
driver fails for any reason to make such report, the owner of the vehicle
involved in such accident, shall, as soon as he learns of the accident, make
said report.
   K.   Reports Not Prejudicial: All required accident reports shall be without
prejudice to the individual so reporting and shall be for the primary use of
the Police Department.
   L.   Police To Investigate Accidents, Arrest Guilty Parties: It shall be the
duty of the Police Department to investigate traffic accidents and to arrest
and obtain prosecution of those persons guilty of violation of law causing or
contributing to such accidents.
   M.   Filing Of Accident Reports: The Police Department shall maintain a
suitable system of filing traffic accident reports, and shall file such
accident report or cards referring to them alphabetically by location. (1951
Code 14-10-75, 14-12-80)
11-2-8: REGULATIONS IN SEMIPUBLIC AREAS:
   A.   Regulation Of Driving, Parking, Pedestrians: The Police Chief and
Village Manager shall designate loading zones, safety zones, lanes and
direction of travel and parking, turning restrictions, speed limits and zones
(to include 15 miles per hour limits), caution areas and location of signs or
other standard markings controlling the movement of vehicles within semipublic
areas. Necessary regulation of pedestrian traffic may be established. The
owners of the semipublic area shall pay for the cost of installation and
maintenance of said signs and markings.
The following manner of driving shall be prohibited within semipublic areas:
      1.   In disregard of any sign, signal, marking or device erected,
constructed or created by the Village or any public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic, or
contrary to the order or direction of any police officer or other person duly
authorized to direct or regulate traffic; or
      2.   At a rate of speed or in any manner that is unreasonable or
imprudent having regard to the traffic and use of the area, conditions of the
weather, visibility, condition of the roadway and other surrounding conditions,
so as to endanger the life or limb or injure the property of any person; or
      3.   In such a manner as to cause or produce unnecessary load, raucous,
excessive or unusual noise by the racing of the motor, by lack of a muffler or
use of a muffler cutout, by tire friction upon rapid turning or weaving, by
spinning of the wheels from standing or slow moving position produced by sudden
unnecessary motor acceleration, or by continuous unnecessary sounding of a horn
or other signal device; or
      4.   In such a manner as to deprive or unreasonably interfere with the
equal rights of any other person to the use of such semipublic area.
   B.   Fire Lanes Designated: The Fire Chief and Village Manager shall
designate fire lanes to the front and rear of all buildings within semipublic
areas to be marked by signs or other standard markings wherein the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles shall be restricted. The owners of the
semipublic areas shall pay for the cost of installation and maintenance of said
signs and markings. The Fire Chief and Village Manager may request the Village
Board to designate certain areas as fire lanes and that an appropriate
ordinance be adopted to enforce said fire lane restrictions.
   C.   Removal And Storage Of Vehicles: The Police Department of the Village
is hereby authorized to remove and store any vehicle parked or abandoned in a
semipublic area during snowstorms, floods, fires or other public emergency or
found unattended in the parking area where they constitute an obstruction to
traffic or where stopping, standing or parking is prohibited, and the owner or
operator of said vehicle shall pay a reasonable charge for the removal and
storage of said vehicle.
   D.   Penalty: The pedestrian, vehicle operator or vehicle owner violating
provisions of this Section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ords.
70-3-2, 77-15-20; 1985 Code; Ord. 99-5-11)
11-2-9: AUTOMOBILE PARTS, POSSESSION AND SALE BY POLICE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Adoption Of State Code: 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 1030/1 through
1030/6, inclusive, are adopted by reference 1 .
   B.   Sale Of Unidentifiable Automobile Parts: Whenever the Police Department
is in possession of unidentifiable automobile parts (parts containing no
markings or identification numbers of any sort) and such property is believed
to be abandoned, lost or stolen, and the identity or location of the owner or
other person entitled to possession of such property has not been ascertained
within seven (7) days after the Police Department obtains such possession, the
Chief of Police shall effectuate the sale of such property for cash to the
highest bidder at a public auction, notice of which (including time, place and
a brief description of such property) shall be published at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Village at least ten (10) days prior to
the sale. Such property offered for sale at such public auction and not sold,
may then be sold by the Chief of Police on the best terms possible. (Ord. 83-
10-20)
 
Notes
1 1. State law provisions relate to property possessed by law enforcement
  agencies.
11-2-10: FLEEING, ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE PEACE OFFICER:
Any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or
audible signal by a peace officer directing such driver or operator to bring
his vehicle to a stop, wilfully fails or refuses to obey such direction,
increases his speed, extinguishes his lights, or otherwise flees or attempts to
elude the officer, is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or
imprisoned for not less than ten (10) days nor more than six (6) months, or
both. The signal given by the peace officer may be by hand, voice, siren or
blue or red light; provided, the officer giving such signal shall be in police
uniform, and if driving a vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked showing it to
be an official police vehicle. (1969 Code 13-6; 1985 Code; Ord. 99-5-11)
11-2-11: OPENING DOORS INTO TRAFFIC:
No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers. (1969 Code
13-14)
11-2-12: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
Any person who shall wilfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay, or
who shall wilfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any
other person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any street or
highway or who shall offer for barter or sale merchandise on said street or
highway so as to interfere with the effective movement of traffic shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (1951 Code 14-8-53)
11-2-13: INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES ON STREETS:
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street any glass bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance likely to injure any
person, animal, or vehicle upon such street.
   B.   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
street any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the same
or cause it to be removed.
   C.   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the street from such
vehicle. (1969 Code 13-16)
11-2-14: RIDING ON CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person shall:
   A.   House Trailers: Occupy a house trailer while it is being moved upon a
public street.
   B.   Motorcycles: Ride upon any motorcycle other than upon a seat attached
to said vehicle.
   C.   Fenders, Running Boards: Ride upon the fender, running board or outside
step of any vehicle. (1951 Code 14-8-54, 14-8-58; 1969 Code 13-7)
11-2-15: CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a motorcycle or any
toboggan, sled, ski or toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or his vehicle
to any moving vehicle. (1951 Code 14-8-56)
11-2-16: USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES:
It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled or other toy
vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk. (1951 Code 14-8-57)
11-2-17: OBSTRUCTIONS TO DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are
in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1951 Code 14-8-61)
11-2-18: FOLLOWING, PARKING NEAR FIRE APPARATUS:
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five
hundred feet (500') of or drive into or park such vehicle within the block
where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (1951 Code 14-8-49)
11-2-19: ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES:
   A.   Obedience Required: It is unlawful and, unless otherwise declared in
this title with respect to particular offenses, it is a misdemeanor for any
person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this
title.
   B.   Police To Enforce Regulations, Make Arrests: It shall be the duty of
the police to patrol the public streets and to make arrests for violation of
the provisions of this title.
   C.   Penalty Established: Every person convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided in subsections F
and G of this section and outlined in this title.
   D.   Guilty Parties: Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires
to commit, or aids, or abets in the commission of any act declared herein to be
a crime, or an ordinance violation, whether individually or in connection with
one or more other persons or as principal, agent or accessory, shall be guilty
of such offense and every person who falsely, fraudulently, forcibly, or
wilfully induces, causes, coerces, requires, permits, or directs another to
violate any provision of this title is likewise guilty of such offense.
   E.   Owner's Parental Responsibility:
      1.   It is unlawful for the owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle to require or knowingly to permit
the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to this
title.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or person in loco
parentis, to permit a minor who is his child, ward, or in his custody, to
violate any of the provisions of this title.
   F.   Adoption Of State Codes:
      1.   Chapters 3, 6, 11, 12 and 15 of the Illinois vehicle code 1  and 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 25/1 (the "child passenger protection act"), as now
existing or hereafter amended, are hereby adopted by reference to be applied
within the corporate limits of the village to the extent permitted by law and
to the extent that their subject matter is not otherwise regulated by the
village code or inconsistent with any lawful provision of the village code. All
actions or failure to act made unlawful in the aforesaid chapters of the
Illinois vehicle code shall be made unlawful events under the provisions of the
village code.
      2.   All references in the aforesaid chapters of the Illinois vehicle
code to "this code" shall be to sections of the Illinois vehicle code and shall
not refer to sections of the Oak Lawn village code. References to a state
employee or official may be to a corresponding village employee or official
where such reference is applicable or necessary.
      3.   Citations for violations of the aforesaid chapters of the Illinois
vehicle code adopted by reference herein may be issued by authorized personnel
of the village, using the appropriate Illinois vehicle code section which
shall, by the effect of this section, represent identically and specially
numbered sections of the Oak Lawn village code.
      4.   Without limiting the generality of subsection F1 of this section:
         a.   The following provisions of the Illinois vehicle code, as may be
amended from time to time, are hereby expressly adopted by reference pursuant
to the authority granted in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-204: sections
11-501, 11-501.1, 11-501.2, 11-501.4, 11-501.4-1, 11-501.5, 11-501.6, 11-501.7,
and 11-501.8, excepting section 11-501(d).
Reference to this subsection F4 can be made in the following manner: Oak Lawn
village code, chapter 11, subsection 11-2-19F followed by the applicable
Illinois vehicle code section number, e.g., subsection 11-2-19F of the Oak Lawn
village code/IVC 11-501.5.
         b.   The court, upon making a finding of guilty for any offense under
this subsection F, in addition to any sentencing alternative selected by the
court, shall impose a fine of not less than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each such offense and not more than the maximum provided by state
law. In the event the Illinois vehicle code imposes a minimum fine greater than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for such an offense, the greater of the
statutory minimum fine or seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) shall be
imposed.
   G.   Violation; Settle And Compromise: Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection F of this section, anyone accused of violating any of the following:
      1.   Section 5/11-1406 (obstruction to driver's view or control);
      2.   Section 5/12-101 (driving vehicle which is in unsafe condition or
improperly equipped);
      3.   Section 5/12-201(a) (daytime lights on motorcycles);
      4.   Section 5/12-202 (clearance, identification and side marker lamps);
      5.   Section 5/12-204 (lamp or flag on projecting load);
      6.   Section 5/12-205 (failure to display the safety lights required);
      7.   Section 5/12-401 (restrictions as to tire equipment);
      8.   Section 5/12-502 (mirrors);
      9.   Section 5/12-503 (windshields must be unobstructed and equipped with
wipers);
      10.   Section 5/12-601 (horns and warning devices);
      11.   Section 5/12-602 (mufflers, prevention of noise or smoke);
      12.   Section 5/12-603 (seat safety belts);
      13.   Section 5/12-702 (certain vehicles to carry flares or other warning
devices);
      14.   Section 5/12-710 (splashguards and replacements); or
      15.   Failure to display village vehicle license;
may settle and compromise the claim by paying the village the sum of fifty
dollars ($50.00) and showing proof of correction of the violation within ten
(10) days from the time such alleged offense was committed, or by paying to the
village the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00) and showing proof of the
correction of the violation subsequent to the said ten (10) day period.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois vehicle code, section 5/6-204,
conviction for said offenses shall not be reportable to the secretary of state.
(1951 Code 14-12-80, 14-12-81; 1969 Code 13-240, 13-241; Ords. 83-24-64, 07-14-
43, 08-16-41)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
CHAPTER 3
VEHICLE OPERATION
SECTION:
11-3-1: Driver's License Required
11-3-2: Reckless Driving
11-3-3: Negligent Driving
11-3-4: Driving While Intoxicated Or Drugged
11-3-5: Duties On Approach Of Emergency Vehicles
11-3-6: Drag Racing
11-3-7: Speed Limits
11-3-8: Traffic Control
11-3-9: Driving On Right Required, Exceptions
11-3-10: Meeting, Overtaking Vehicles
11-3-11: Turning Requirements And Restrictions
11-3-12: Hand And Arm Signals
11-3-13: Emerging From Alley, Private Driveway
11-3-14: Driving On Laned Roadways
11-3-15: Crossing Median Of Divided Highways
11-3-16: Driving On Rotary Traffic Islands
11-3-17: Following Too Closely
11-3-18: Driving Over Certain Areas Prohibited
11-3-19: Crossing Fire Hose
11-3-20: Controlled Access Roadways
11-3-21: Railroad Grade Crossings
11-3-22: Limitations On Backing
11-3-23: Starting Stopped Vehicle
11-3-24: Squealing Tires, Scratching Off
11-3-25: Transportation Of Alcoholic Liquors
11-3-26: Through Traffic Prohibited On Certain Streets
11-3-27: Engine Braking Prohibited
11-3-28: Sound Amplification Systems
11-3-1: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in any manner on
the streets in the village:
   A.   Without having been duly licensed or permitted to drive such vehicle by
the state or any other state where such person is a resident;
   B.   With a license which has expired;
   C.   With a license which has been revoked or suspended by the secretary of
state or lawful authority of any other state; or
   D.   Though lawfully licensed, it is not on his person, provided that said
person shall be discharged upon the display of a lawfully issued license at the
time of the court hearing;
   E.   That is in violation of the restrictions imposed on a restricted
driver's license or permit issued by the secretary of state. (1951 Code 14-10-
73, 14-10-74; Ord. 42)
11-3-2: RECKLESS DRIVING:
   A.   Defined: Any person who drives any vehicle with a wilful or a wanton
disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving.
   B.   Prohibited: Every person convicted of reckless driving shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1951 Code 14-8-52)
11-3-3: NEGLIGENT DRIVING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle upon a public way
negligently, heedlessly and without due caution or in a manner as to endanger
or be likely to endanger any person or property. (Ord. 72-15-27)
11-3-4: DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of narcotic drugs
or any person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic
drugs to drive any vehicle within the village.
   B.   Upon the trial of any action or proceeding arising out of acts alleged
to have been committed by any person while driving or in actual physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor, evidence
of the amount of alcohol in the person's blood at the time of the act alleged
as shown by a chemical analysis of his breath, blood, urine, saliva or other
bodily substance is admissible, and the result of any such analysis shall give
rise to the following presumptions:
      1.   If there was 0.05 percent or less by weight of alcohol in the
person's blood, it shall be presumed that such person was not under the
influence of intoxicating liquor;
      2.   If there was in excess of 0.05 percent but less than 0.08 percent by
weight of alcohol in the person's blood, such fact shall not give rise to any
presumption that the person was or was not under the influence of intoxicating
liquor, but such fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining whether such person was under the influence of intoxicating liquor;
      3.   If there was 0.08 percent or more by weight of alcohol in the
person's blood, it shall be presumed that such person was under the influence
of intoxicating liquor;
      4.   The foregoing provisions of this subsection B shall not be construed
as limiting the introduction of any other competent evidence bearing upon the
question whether or not the defendant was under the influence of intoxicating
liquor.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be punished
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1951 Code 14-10-74; Ord. 98-22-102)
11-3-5: DUTIES ON APPROACH OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, when
the driver is giving a visual signal by light or an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the street clear of any
intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   B.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street.
   C.   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). (1951 Code 14-8-49; 1985 Code; Ord. 01-09-30)
11-3-6: DRAG RACING:
Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, is a participant in drag
racing shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. For the purpose of this section "drag racing" means the act
of two (2) or more individuals competing or racing on any street or highway in
the village in a situation in which one of the motor vehicles is beside or to
the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing driver and the one driver
attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing or overtaking him or one
or more individuals competing in a race against time on any street or highway
in the village. (1951 Code 13-60)
11-3-7: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any public street of the
village at a speed which:
         a.   Is greater than is reasonable and with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the streets, or endangers the safety of any person or
property; or
         b.   Is greater than the applicable maximum speed limit established by
this section or by a regulation or ordinance made pursuant to the provisions of
this title. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway, or when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians
or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions; and speed shall
be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle
on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty
of all persons to use due care.
      2.   The maximum speed limit for a vehicle of the first division, unless
some other such limit is established pursuant to the provisions of subsection B
of this section, is as follows:
         a.   Outside of an urban district the maximum is fifty five (55) miles
per hour.
         b.   In an urban district the maximum is thirty (30) miles per hour,
except that in an alley the maximum is fifteen (15) miles per hour.
         c.   The maximum speed limit for a vehicle of the first division
towing another vehicle is fifty five (55) miles per hour outside of an urban
district, thirty (30) miles per hour in an urban district, and fifteen (15)
miles per hour in an alley.
      3.   The maximum speed limit for a vehicle of the second division, unless
some other such limit is established pursuant to the provisions of subsection B
of this section, is as follows:
         a.   If the vehicle is designed and used for pulling or carrying
freight and has a gross weight of eight thousand (8,000) pounds or less
(including the weight of the vehicle and maximum load), and is equipped with
pneumatic tires, the maximum is fifty five (55) miles per hour outside of an
urban district, thirty (30) miles per hour in an urban district, and fifteen
(15) miles per hour in an alley; but if such vehicle is equipped with two (2)
or more solid tires, the maximum is ten (10) miles per hour at all times and in
all locations.
         b.   If the vehicle is designed and used for pulling or carrying
freight and has a gross weight of more than eight thousand (8,000) pounds
(including the weight of the vehicle and maximum load), and is equipped with
pneumatic tires, the maximum is fifty (50) miles per hour outside of an urban
district, thirty (30) miles per hour in an urban district, and fifteen (15)
miles per hour in an alley; but if such vehicle is equipped with two (2) or
more solid tires, the maximum is ten (10) miles per hour at all times and in
all locations.
         c.   If the vehicle is designed and used for carrying more than seven
(7) passengers, and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the maximum is fifty five
(55) miles per hour.
   B.   Specific Locations: The village board may establish absolute maximum
speed limits on all streets which are within its corporate limits and which are
not under the jurisdiction of the department of public works and buildings of
the state, or of the Illinois state toll highway commission, and for which the
county or a highway commissioner therein does not have maintenance
responsibility.
Whenever the village board determines, upon the basis of an engineering or
traffic investigation concerning a highway or street on which it is authorized
by this subsection to establish speed limits, that a maximum speed limit
prescribed in subsection A of this section is greater or less than is
reasonable or safe with respect to the conditions found to exist at any place
or along any part or zone of said highway or street, the Board shall determine
and declare by ordinance a reasonable and safe absolute maximum speed limit at
such place or along such part or zone, which:
      1.   Decreases the limit within an urban district, but not to less than
twenty (20) miles per hour; or
      2.   Increases the limit within an urban district, but not to more than
sixty five (65) miles per hour; or
      3.   Decrease the limit outside of an urban district, but not to less
than thirty five (35) miles per hour.
The Village Board may make such limit applicable at all times or only during
specified times. Not more than six (6) such alterations shall be made per mile
along a highway or street; and the difference in limit between adjacent speed
zones shall not be more than ten (10) miles per hour.
A limit so determined and declared by the Village Board becomes effective, and
suspends the application of the limit prescribed in subsection A hereof when
appropriate signs giving notice of the limit are erected at the proper place or
along the proper part or zone of the highway or street. Electronic speed-
detecting devices shall not be used within five hundred feet (500') beyond any
such sign in the direction of travel; if so used in violation hereof, evidence
obtained thereby shall be inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding.
   C.   School Zones: No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in
excess of twenty (20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while
traveling upon any public thoroughfare on or across which children pass going
to and from school during school days when school children are present.
This subsection shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are posted
upon streets and highways and maintained by the Village. Such signs shall give
proper due warning that a school zone is being approached and shall indicate
the school zone and the maximum speed limit in effect during school days when
school children are present.
   D.   Duty to Reduce Speed Under Hazardous Conditions: The fact that the
speed of a vehicle is lower than the foregoing limits shall not relieve the
driver from the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection, when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a
hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, or when special
hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of
weather or highway conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary
to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle, on or entering the highway in
compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   E.   Minimum Speed Regulations:
      1.   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to
impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when
reduced speed is necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in compliance
with law.
      2.   Whenever the Village determines, upon the basis of an engineering
and traffic investigation concerning a street under its jurisdiction, that slow
vehicle speeds along any part or zone of such street consistently impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Village may determine and
declare by proper regulation or ordinance a minimum speed limit below which no
person shall drive except when necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or
in compliance with law. A limit so determined and declared becomes effective
when appropriate signs giving notice of the limit are erected along such part
or zone of the street.
   F.   Speed Limit Exemption for Emergency Vehicles: The speed limits
established by this Section or by regulation or other ordinance made pursuant
to the provisions of this Section do not apply, except as otherwise provided in
Illinois Revised Statutes, chapter 951/2, sections 11-1421 and 11-1422 to an
authorized emergency vehicle in motion when responding to an emergency call and
when the driver thereof sounds an audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust
whistle, as may be reasonably necessary, provided that the vehicle is equipped
and has in operation at least one lighted lamp displaying an oscillating,
rotating, or flashing red beam, visible under normal atmospheric conditions
from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front of such vehicle. An
authorized emergency Fire Department vehicle may be equipped and have in
operation a triple eight moving white beam light visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front
of such vehicle, in lieu of, or in addition to, a rotating or flashing red
beam, in order to be exempt from the speed limits established by this Section
or by regulation or ordinance made pursuant to the provisions hereof. No other
authorized emergency vehicle shall use any oscillating triple eight moving
white beam light other than a Fire Department vehicle. However, this provision
does not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to
drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the street, nor does
it protect the driver of any such vehicle from the consequences of a reckless
disregard of the safety of others.
   G.   Charging Violations of Speed Limits: In every charge of violation of a
provision of this Section by failure to observe an applicable speed limit, the
complaint and also the summons or notice to appear shall specify the speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and the speed limit which is
applicable at the place of the alleged violation.
   H.   Effect of Speed Limits on Civil Actions: The provisions of this Section
concerning maximum speed limits do not relieve the plaintiff in any civil
action from the burden of proving negligence on the part of the defendant as a
proximate cause of an accident. (1951 Code 14-3-19, 14-3-20; 1969 Code 13-61,
13-62, 13-63, 13-65, 13-68; 1985 Code)
11-3-8: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Traffic-Control Signal Legend: Whenever traffic is controlled by
traffic-control signals exhibiting different colored lights successively one at
a time, or with arrows, only the following colors shall be used and said terms
and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as
follows:
      1.   Circular Green (alone):
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through
or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn.
But vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such signal is
exhibited.
         b.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless directed otherwise by a
pedestrian signal.
      2.   Steady Yellow:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter or the related green
movement is being terminated, and shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk at the intersection, but if such stop cannot be made in safety, a
vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
         b.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal, pedestrians
facing such signal are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross
the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to cross shall yield the right of
way to all vehicles.
      3.   Steady Red (alone):
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may be
indicated by a clearly visible line or if none, before entering the
intersection, and shall remain standing until the green indication is shown,
unless otherwise directed by a sign or arrow.
         b.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless
he can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic or
unless a separate "Walk" indication is shown.
         c.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal at an intersection
may turn right after stopping as required by subsection 3a above, unless the
Village by ordinance, or the State by rule or regulation, prohibits any such
right turn against a steady red signal at an intersection under its respective
jurisdiction. Any vehicle turning right against a red signal, as set forth
above, shall yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      4.   Green Straight-Through Arrow (alone):
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through,
but shall not turn right or left. Such vehicular traffic shall yield the right
of way to other vehicles and to pedestrians legally within the intersection at
the time such signal is exhibited.
         b.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within the appropriate marked or unmarked crosswalk unless directed otherwise
by a pedestrian signal.
      5.   Green Turn Arrow (alone or with circular green, with steady yellow,
with steady red, or with green straight-through arrow):
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall comply with the meaning
of the circular green, steady yellow, steady red, or green straight-through
arrow indication as if it were shown alone, except that such vehicular traffic
may cautiously enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the
green turn arrow. Vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to pedestrians
lawfully within a crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
         b.   Pedestrians facing such signal shall comply with the meaning of
the circular green, steady yellow, steady red, or straight- through arrow
indication as if it were shown alone, unless directed otherwise by a pedestrian
signal.
      6.   Signals Other than at Intersections: In the event an official
traffic-control signal or flashing red signal is erected and maintained at a
place other than an intersection, the provisions of this subsection or
subsection B hereof, shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   B.   Flashing Signal Legend: Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are
used, they shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
      1.   Flashing Red (stop signal): When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      2.   Flashing Yellow (caution signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersections or past such signal only with caution.
   C.   Pedestrian Control Signal Legend: Whenever special pedestrian control
signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or "Don't Walk" are in place, such signals
shall indicate as follows:
      1.   Walk: While the "Walk" indication is illuminated, pedestrians facing
such signal may proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and
shall be given the right of way by the drivers of all vehicles.
      2.   Don't Walk: While the "Don't Walk" indication is illuminated, either
steady or flashing, no pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partly completed his
crossing during the "Walk" indication shall proceed to a sidewalk, or to a
safety island if one is provided.
   D.   Lane Control Signal Legend: Whenever lane- control signals are used in
conjunction with official signs, they shall have the following meanings:
      1.   Opaque arrow on green, green arrow on opaque background, or green
alone: Drivers of vehicles facing such signal are permitted to use the lane or
lanes over which the signal is displayed provided no intersection traffic-
control signal gives a stop indication affecting the lane or lanes involved.
      2.   Opaque "X" on red, red "X" on opaque background or red alone:
Drivers of vehicles facing such signal are prohibited from using the lane over
which the signal is displayed. (1951 Code 14-4-23, 14-4-24; 1969 Code 13-71,
13-72; 1985 Code)
11-3-9: DRIVING ON RIGHT REQUIRED, EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      2.   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      4.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic;
      5.   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two (2) vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is
the wider shoulder shall give the right of way on such pavement to the other
vehicle.
   B.   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (1951 Code 14-8-50)
11-3-10: MEETING, OVERTAKING VEHICLES:
   A.   Meeting Vehicles: Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite
directions, except as provided in subsection B hereof, shall pass each other to
the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic
in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2)
of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
   B.   Overtaking, Passing on the Left: The following rules shall govern
overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to
those limitations, exceptions, and special rules hereinafter stated:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
      2.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
      3.   The driver of a two (2) wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the
left of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of
any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an
unobstructed lane of traffic available to permit such passing maneuver safely.
   C.   Limitations on Overtaking on the Left:
      1.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of on coming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the
roadway before coming within two hundred feet (200') of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
      2.   No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at
any other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions;
         a.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
street where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
         b.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing.
         c.   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to
the right, or a distinctive center line is marked, which distinctive line also
directs the traffic as declared in the Sign Manual adopted by the Department of
Public Works and Buildings of the State.
         d.   The limitations in subsection C1 and C2 shall not apply upon a
one-way roadway or upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient
width for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction when such
movement can be made with safety.
   D.   When Overtaking on the Right Permitted:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle of three (3) or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         a.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn;
         b.   Upon a street with unobstructed pavement not occupied by parked
vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction;
         c.   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
      2.   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of
any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed
pavement to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less
than eight feet (8').
      3.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main- traveled
portion of the roadway.
   E.   Approaching, Overtaking, Passing School Buses:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle upon a street, upon meeting or overtaking,
from either direction, any school bus which has stopped on the street for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any school children, shall stop the vehicle
before reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus a
visual signal as specified in subsection 11-7-2J1, and the driver shall not
proceed until the school bus resumes motion, or is signaled by the school bus
driver to proceed, or the visual signals are no longer actuated.
      2.   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof plainly visible signs containing the words
"SCHOOL BUS" in letters not less than eight inches (8") in height, and in
addition shall be equipped with visual signals meeting the requirements of
subsection 11-7-2J1 of this Title, which shall be actuated by the driver of the
school bus whenever the brakes are applied. Such visual signals shall be
actuated by the driver at a distance of not less than one hundred feet (100')
immediately preceding the point at which the bus stops for the purpose of
loading or discharging passengers within a business or residential district,
and not less than two hundred feet (200') immediately preceding the point at
which the bus stops for the purposes of loading or discharging passengers
outside of a business or residential district.
      3.   The driver of a vehicle upon a street on which the roadways for
traffic moving in opposite directions are separated by a strip of ground which
is not surfaced or suitable for vehicular traffic need not stop his vehicle
upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on the opposite roadway; and need
not stop his vehicle when driving upon a controlled access street when a school
bus is stopped in a loading zone adjacent to the surface or improved part of
the controlled access streets where pedestrians are not permitted to cross such
controlled access street. (1951 Code 14-8-50, 14-8-51; 1969 Code 13-84, 13-85,
13-86; 1985 Code)
11-3-11: TURNING REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Required Position and Method of Turning at Intersection: The driver of
a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows:
      1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      2.   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of such center line where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line of the
roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that
portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
      3.   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left any
such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle
and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave
the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
      4.   The Village may cause markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within
or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that a different
course from that specified in this subsection be traveled by vehicles turning
at an intersection, and when markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such markers, buttons, or signs.
   B.   Vehicles Turning Left to Yield Right of Way: The driver of a vehicle
intending to turn to the left within an intersection or into an alley, private
road, or driveway shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from
the opposite direction which is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard,
but said driver, having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval
occurs.
   C.   Turning on Curve or Crest of Grade: No vehicle shall be turned so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any curve, or upon the approach to, or
near the crest of a grade, where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of
any other vehicle approaching from either direction within five hundred feet
(500').
   D.   Turn Signals Required:
      1.   No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a street
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only
after giving a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn if any pedestrian
may be affected by such movement or after giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided in the event any other vehicle may be affected by
such movement.
      2.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given during not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
      3.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such a signal.
      4.   The signals provided for in subsection D2 hereof shall be used to
indicate an intention to turn or change lanes but shall not be flashed as a
courtesy or "do pass" signal to operators of other vehicles approaching from
the rear.
   E.   Manner of Giving Turn Signals:
      1.   Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either
by means of the hand or arm or by a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal
device, except as otherwise provided in subsection E2.
      2.   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and
required signal shall be given by, a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal
device when the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the
left outside limit of the body, cab, or load of such motor vehicle exceeds
twenty four inches (24"), or when the distance from the center of the top of
the steering post to the rear limit of the body or load thereof exceeds
fourteen feet (14'). The latter measurement shall apply to any single vehicle,
also to any combination of vehicles. (1951 Code 14-8-43, 14-8-44, 14-8-45; 1969
Code 13-90, 13-91)
11-3-12: HAND AND ARM SIGNALS:
All signals herein required given by hand or arm shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall indicate as
follows:
   A.   Left Turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   B.   Right Turn: Hand and arm extended upward or moved with a sweeping
motion from the rear to the front.
   C.   Stop or Decrease of Speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (1951 Code
14-8-45)
11-3-13: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, PRIVATE DRIVEWAY:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the
sidewalk area extending across an alley or private driveway, and shall yield
the right of way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and
upon entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on said roadway. (1951 Code 14-6-31)
11-3-14: DRIVING ON LANED ROADWAYS:
Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply:
   A.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   B.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes and provides for
two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   C.   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
   D.   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device. (1969 Code 13-87)
11-3-15: CROSSING MEDIAN OF DIVIDED HIGHWAYS:
Whenever any highway has been divided into two (2) roadways by leaving an
intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any such dividing space, barrier, or section except through
an opening in such physical barrier, dividing section, space, or at a crossover
or intersection established by public authority. (1969 Code 13-88)
11-3-16: DRIVING ON ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS:
A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only to the
right of such island. (1969 Code 13-97)
11-3-17: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
   A.   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street.
   B.   The driver of any motor vehicle of the second division or motor vehicle
drawing another vehicle when traveling upon a roadway outside of a business or
residence district shall not follow within three hundred feet (300') of another
motor vehicle of the second division or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle.
The provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to prevent overtaking
and passing nor shall the same apply upon any lane specially designated for use
by motor vehicles of the second division.
   C.   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade whether or not towing other
vehicles shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to funeral
processions. (1969 Code 13-98)
11-3-18: DRIVING OVER CERTAIN AREAS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Driving Through Safety Zones: No vehicle shall at any time be driven
through or within a safety zone.
   B.   Driving on Sidewalks, Boulevards, Lawns: No driver of a vehicle shall
drive within any sidewalk area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway,
nor on or across any sidewalk, boulevard, lawn, or property where there is no
regular approach or driveway for the use of vehicular traffic.
   C.   Driving on Recently Dragged Streets: No person shall drive or cause to
be driven a vehicle of any description in or upon any portion of the street
immediately after the same has been dragged and before such portion of the
street shall have partially dried out or frozen; provided, that nothing in this
subsection shall apply in those instances where it is impossible to drive with
safety at one side of said dragged portion of the road, or where a vehicle does
not make a rut on such dragged portion of the road, injurious to the work
accomplished by use of the road drag or where a vehicle does not make a rut
nearer than nine feet (9') from the center of the dragged portion of the road.
(1951 Code 14-5-29, 14-8-47; 1969 Code 13-101, 13-108)
11-3-19: CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
No vehicle shall be driven over an unprotected hose of a Fire Department when
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command. (1951
Code 14-8-49)
11-3-20: CONTROLLED-ACCESS ROADWAYS:
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(1969 Code 13-104)
11-3-21: RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS:
   A.   Stop Required at Railroad Grade Crossings:
      1.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing and a clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train; or when a train is approaching a
railroad grade crossing so closely that an immediate hazard is created, the
driver of such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than
fifteen feet (15') from the nearest track of such railroad and shall not
proceed until he can do so safely.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle shall stop and remain standing and not
traverse such a grade crossing when a crossing gate is lowered or when a
flagman gives or continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a
train.
   B.   Certain Vehicles to Stop at All Grade Crossings:
      1.   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of
any school bus carrying any school child, or of any vehicle carrying liquid
petroleum and liquid petroleum products, explosives, flammable or oxidizing
liquids and solids, flammable or poisonous compressed gases, volatile liquids
and solids which emit poisonous fumes, corrosive liquids, and radioactive
materials as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing at grade any track or
tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle within fifty feet (50') but not
less than ten feet (10') from the nearest rail of such railroad and while so
stopped shall listen and look in both direction along such track for an
approaching train, and for signals indicating the approach of a train, except
as hereinafter provided, and shall not proceed until he can do so safely.
      2.   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or
a traffic-control signal directs traffic to proceed.
      3.   This subsection shall not apply at street railway grade crossings
within a business or residential district.
   C.   Moving Heavy Equipment at Grade Crossing:
      1.   No person shall operate or move any truck type vehicle, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six (6) or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches (9") above the level surface of a roadway
upon or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying
with this subsection.
      2.   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a
superintendent of such railroad and a reasonable time be given to such railroad
to provide proper protection at such crossing.
      3.   Before making any such crossing the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than ten feet
(10') nor more than fifty feet (50') from the nearest rail of such railway and
while so stopped shall listen and look in both directions along such track for
any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train and
shall not proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
      4.   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates or a flagman or otherwise of the immediate approach of
the railroad train or car. (1951 Code 14-8-60; 1969 Code 13-80; 1985 Code)
11-3-22: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with safety and without interfering with other traffic, nor shall a driver
back the same upon any controlled-access highway. (1969 Code 13-102)
11-3-23: STARTING STOPPED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (1969 Code 13-103)
11-3-24: SQUEALING TIRES, "SCRATCHING OFF":
It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in such a manner as to cause or
produce unnecessary or unusual noise by tire friction upon rapid turning or
weaving or by spinning of the wheels from a standing or slow moving position
produced by sudden unnecessary motor acceleration. (1951 Code 14-13-1; Ord.
183)
11-3-25: TRANSPORTATION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS:
No person shall transport any alcoholic liquor in, upon or about any motor
vehicle, except in the original package and with the seal unbroken. (1969 Code
13-107)
11-3-26: THROUGH TRAFFIC PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle on a street on which through
traffic has been prohibited by the posting of an appropriate sign (indicating
"Local Traffic Only"), other than for the purpose of gaining access to or
leaving property that is adjacent to such portion of a street designated "Local
Traffic Only". The operation of a motor vehicle on any such street located
between two (2) streets intersecting with such portion of the street without
parking, or without stopping to load or unload passengers or goods, shall be
prima facie evidence of a violation of this section. (Ord. 92-19-69)
11-3-27: ENGINE BRAKING PROHIBITED:
It shall be an unlawful noise violation for any motor vehicle to use engine
braking on any street where the use of engine brakes has been prohibited by an
appropriate sign. The penalty for violation of this section shall be not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (Ord. 06-07-25)
11-3-28: SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS:
No driver of any motor vehicle shall operate or permit operation of any sound
amplification system which can be heard outside the vehicle from a distance of
seventy five (75) or more feet when the vehicle is being operated upon any
highway unless such system is being operated to request assistance or to warn
of a hazardous situation. This section does not apply to authorized emergency
vehicles.
Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be fined two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each occasion on which the sound amplification system of
a vehicle is operated in violation of this section. In addition to the fine
provided for herein, in the event of three (3) or more convictions for
violation of this section by the same offender during a one year period, a
court may further order impoundment of the offender's vehicle for a period not
to exceed one week, and the offender shall be responsible for the payment of
any towing or storage related charges prior to the release of the vehicle from
impoundment. (Ord. 08-19-59)
CHAPTER 4
STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Unmarked Intersections
11-4-2: Through Intersections And Stop Streets
11-4-3: Erection, Obedience To Stop Signs
11-4-4: Yield Intersections
11-4-5: Stop Crosswalks
11-4-6: No Right Or Left Turn
11-4-7: One-Way Roadways
11-4-8: Local Traffic Only
11-4-9: List Of Designated Streets On File
11-4-1: UNMARKED INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right of way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street.
   B.   When two (2) vehicles enter an intersection from different streets at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
   C.   The right of way rules declared in subsections A and B of this section
are modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this chapter. (1951
Code 14-8-48)
11-4-2: THROUGH INTERSECTIONS AND STOP STREETS:
   A.   The village may, in its discretion and when traffic conditions warrant
such action, give preference to traffic upon any of the streets under its
jurisdiction, over traffic crossing or entering such street by erecting
appropriate stop signs or stoplights.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by section
11-4-3 of this chapter at the entrance to a through highway and shall yield the
right of way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from said
through highway or which are approaching so closely on said through highway as
to constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver having so yielded may
proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop sign
as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or
more entrances thereto although not a part of a through highway and shall
proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which are
within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate
hazard, but then may proceed.
   D.   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are placed at an intersection
or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers of vehicles
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk and pedestrians within or
entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the right of
way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of vehicles having so yielded the right
of way to pedestrians entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an
intersection shall also yield the right of way to pedestrians within any other
crosswalk at the intersection. (1969 Code 13-75)
11-4-3: ERECTION, OBEDIENCE TO STOP SIGNS:
   A.   The Village may designate through highways and erect stop signs at
specified entrances thereto or may designate any intersection as a stop
intersection and erect like signs at one or more entrances to such
intersection.
   B.   Every said sign shall bear the word "Stop" in letters not less than six
inches (6") in height, except at intersections where flashing light signals are
used, in which case the letters, if used, shall not be less than four inches
(4") in height. Every stop sign shall be located as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if there
is no crosswalk, then as close as practicable to the nearest line of the
intersecting roadway.
   C.   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or in the event
there is no crosswalk shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but, if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting highway before entering the
intersection except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal. (1969 Code 13-76)
11-4-4: YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
The Village, with reference to streets under its jurisdiction, may, when
traffic conditions warrant such action, give preference to traffic through any
intersection on any street and designate specified entrances to said
intersections as yield right of way signs in lieu of stop signs as required or
permitted in Sections
11-4-2 and
11-4-3.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle, in obedience to a yield right of way sign,
shall reduce the speed of his vehicle to not more than twenty (20) miles per
hour and shall yield the right of way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersecting street either from the right or left or which are approaching so
closely on said intersecting street as to constitute an immediate hazard; but
said driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval
occurs.
   B.   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or interferes
with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield right of way
sign, such collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie evidence of
the driver's failure to yield right of way. (1969 Code 13-77)
11-4-5: STOP CROSSWALKS:
Stop crosswalks may be designated between intersections and said crosswalks
shall be plainly marked with flashing red signals. When flashing red signals
are in place, drivers must stop before entering such crosswalk, and pedestrians
within or entering the crosswalk have the right of way. (1969 Code 13-77.1)
11-4-6: NO RIGHT OR LEFT TURN:
The Village may prohibit right or left turns at any intersection under its
jurisdiction during all or any part of a day and shall erect appropriate signs
at said intersection. (Ord. 72-30-57)
11-4-7: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS:
The Village may designate any street or any separate roadway under its
jurisdiction for one-way traffic and shall erect appropriate signs giving
notice thereof. Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated. (1969 Code 13-95, 13-
96)
11-4-8: LOCAL TRAFFIC ONLY:
The Department or the Village shall have the authority to prohibit traffic,
other than local traffic, or to restrict traffic to local traffic, on any
street under the control and jurisdiction of the Department or the Village, or
for which the maintenance of which the Department or the Village is
responsible, in such manner as to promote public convenience and safety and so
as to facilitate traffic. Any such regulations adopted by the Department or the
Village limiting traffic on any specific street or streets to "local traffic"
shall become effective on or after the date of the erection of appropriate
"local traffic only" signs indicating such regulations. Any such signs may be
erected by either the Department or the Village. (Ord. 92-19-69)
11-4-9: LIST OF DESIGNATED STREETS ON FILE:
A complete list of all through streets, one-way streets, stop streets, yield
streets, stop crosswalks and local traffic only streets, designated by
ordinance, shall be maintained in the Village Hall. (Ord. 92-19-69)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING, STOPPING AND STANDING
SECTION:
11-5-1: Parking Prohibited In Specific Places
11-5-2: Prohibiting, Restricting Parking At Specific Locations
11-5-3: Manner Of Parking
11-5-4: Residential Parking, Permit
11-5-5: Snow Removal; Snow Routes
11-5-6: Night Parking Restrictions
11-5-7: Leaving Vehicle Unattended
11-5-8: Narrow Streets
11-5-9: Public Or Private Parking Lots
11-5-10: Parking Regulations Not Applicable To Disabled Vehicles
11-5-11: Impounding And Relocation Of Vehicle
11-5-12: Oak Lawn Commuter Parking Lot
11-5-13: Persons With Disabilities, Parking
11-5-14: Immobilization Of Motor Vehicles
11-5-15: Parking Without Displaying A Valid State Registration Plate And
Registration Sticker
11-5-16: Municipal Parking Lot Restrictions
11-5-17: Parking Restriction Holidays
11-5-18: Commercial Vehicles Parking And Storage
11-5-19: Certain Vehicles, Equipment And Machinery In Residential Areas
Prohibited
11-5-20: Parking Of Trailers, Motor Homes And Campers
11-5-21: Parking Restricted For Trucks Carrying Hazardous Materials
11-5-21-1: Definitions
11-5-21-2: Truck Parking Restricted
11-5-1: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACES:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a
police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk.
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      3.   Within an intersection.
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      5.   On a crosswalk.
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach of any flashing beacon,
stoplight, or traffic control signal at the side of a roadway.
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the department or the village, on highways under their respective
jurisdiction, indicate a different length by signs or markings.
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing.
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted.
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or within
a tunnel.
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      15.   Within designated bus stops, if not a licensed bus, or otherwise
authorized by law.
      16. In a designated handicapped parking space, unless said vehicle bears
registration plates issued to a “handicapped person”, as defined in subsection
11-5-13 A of this chapter, or to a disabled veteran, or displays a special
decal or device issued by the village or another jurisdiction designating the
vehicle is operated by or for a handicapped person.
      17. Within twelve feet (12') of any private mailbox, between ten o’clock
(10:00) A.M. and four o’clock (4:00) P.M., except Sundays and federal holidays.
      18. Within a designated fire lane.
      19. Within any dedicated alley so as to block the driveway entrance to
any abutting property or to block the flow of motor vehicle traffic through
said alley.
      20.   On any private property without the consent of the owner of the
property.
      21.   Within a designated cab stand, if not a licensed cab.
   B.   No person other than a police officer shall move a vehicle into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful or start
or cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle, or shift, change, or
move the levers, brake, starting device, gears, or other mechanism of a
standing motor vehicle to a position other than that in which it was left by
the owner or driver thereof, or attempt to do so.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of subsection A1 of this section
who is stopped, standing, or parked on a sidewalk that is crossing a public or
private driveway, shall be issued a warning citation for their first offense
and shall be fined twenty dollars ($20.00) for each offense thereafter. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation continues. (1951 Code 14-6-32; Ords. 75-9-52, 85-12-36, 89-15-38, 89-
21-65, 10-19-47)
11-5-2: PROHIBITING, RESTRICTING PARKING AT SPECIFIC LOCATIONS:
The department or the village shall have authority to prohibit parking or to
prescribe time limits for parking on any street under the control and
jurisdiction of the department or the village or for the maintenance of which
the department or the village is responsible, in such manner as to promote
public convenience and safety and so as to facilitate traffic. Any such
regulations adopted by the department or village regarding parking upon any
specific street or streets shall become effective on and after the date of the
erecting of appropriate signs indicating such regulations. Any such signs may
be erected either by the department or by the village. (1951 Code 14-6-32)
11-5-3: MANNER OF PARKING:
   A.   Angle parking may be permitted by ordinance on that portion of a street
not under the jurisdiction and control of the state. Where angle parking is not
so permitted, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such
vehicle parallel with and within twelve inches (12") of the right hand curb.
Any person violating the provisions of this subsection shall be issued a
warning citation for their first offense and shall be fined twenty dollars
($20.00) for each offense thereafter, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation continues.
   B.   Except when otherwise provided by ordinance, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel to the
curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic movement,
with its right hand wheels within twelve inches (12") of the right hand curb or
edge of the roadway, or its left hand wheels within twelve inches (12") of the
left hand curb or edge of the roadway. Any person violating the provisions of
this subsection shall be issued a warning citation for their first offense and
shall be fined twenty dollars ($20.00) for each offense thereafter, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation continues.
   C.   In areas where parking spaces have been marked off or designated,
vehicles shall be so parked as to be entirely within a single space.
   D.   In areas marked with lines, lanes, or stalls, no vehicle shall stand or
be parked, except within said marked lines, lanes, or stalls. (1951 Code 14-6-
34; 1969 Code 13-124; Ord. 10-19-47)
11-5-4: RESIDENTIAL PARKING, PERMIT:
   A.   The department of public works, subject to the prior approval of the
president and board of trustees, is hereby authorized to erect signs on any
block of any residential street in an R-1, R-2 or R-3 zoning district
indicating residents' permit parking only, when it has been determined by the
traffic safety committee that fifty percent (50%) or more of the vehicles
parked in a given block are not residents of that district. The hour of the day
and the days of the week or months of the year when these regulations will be
effective shall also be determined by the traffic safety committee.
   B.   When official signs are erected indicating residents' permit parking
only, parking shall be restricted to service or delivery vehicles whose
operators are doing business with residents of the district, and to vehicles
displaying residents' or visitors' parking permits.
   C.   Upon application, the village clerk shall issue "residential parking
permit" decals to residents of the district for use on each car owned and
registered within any residential parking district and displaying a current
village vehicle sticker. Such a residential parking permit sticker shall be
affixed, in accordance with the instructions printed thereon which are made a
part hereof, and without the use of supplemental adhesives, at the lower right
hand corner on the inside of the glass portion of the windshield of such motor
vehicle, directly above the village of Oak Lawn vehicle tax sticker. This
permit sticker shall not guarantee or reserve any parking space, nor shall it
exempt the holder from the observance of any other traffic or parking
regulations.
   D.   Upon application, individual permits shall also be issued to residents
for the use of nonresidents who are temporary visitors of the resident permit
district. These permits shall be good for one day only, and must be attached to
the windshield by means of the adhesive provided on the face of the permit.
Before affixing the one day permit, it must be validated by printing the date
legibly on its face, in the space provided for this purpose. An undated permit
will be considered invalid.
   E.   The fee for the residential parking permit is one dollar ($1.00) for
each vehicle, and the fee for a one day permit is five cents ($0.05), which may
be issued in groups of twenty (20) for one dollar ($1.00). A replacement of a
permit will be issued upon receipt of an identifiable portion of the removed
decal and a receipt for the current village vehicle sticker. Replacement of any
permits which are lost or destroyed will be made at full cost. (Ords. 79-34-65,
93-18-75, 19-16-67)
11-5-5: SNOW REMOVAL; SNOW ROUTES:
   A.   Snow Removal Emergency State:
      1.   Definition: A "snow removal emergency state" is defined to mean a
condition upon streets or public highways where the snow has fallen at a
minimum of one inch (1") per hour and has accumulated to four inches (4"), or
has fallen in such a manner as to produce a congestion of traffic.
      2.   Notice: The president of the village, or his designated
representative, shall give notice to the media of the existence of a snow
removal emergency state; however, the failure to give such notice shall not
excuse any person from complying with the provisions of this section.
As long as a snow removal emergency state exists on any street, no vehicle
shall be parked on such street. A snow removal emergency state shall remain in
effect for a period of twenty four (24) hours after going into effect, or until
the snow has been plowed to the curb lines.
   B.   Parking Prohibited; Snow Removal By Village: At such time as there is
an accumulation of one inch (1") or more of snow on the ground in the village,
it shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to park such vehicle or for
the owner of any vehicle to permit such vehicle to be parked on a west or north
side of any street (even house numbers) on any even numbered day of the month,
and on the south or east side of any such street (odd house numbers) on any odd
numbered day of the month during the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. through
three o'clock (3:00) A.M. Provided, however, the provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to those streets presently designated "snow thoroughfares".
The municipal forces will remove snow from the odd numbered side of the street
(south or east side) on the odd numbered calendar days, and will remove snow
from the even numbered side of the street (north or west side) on even numbered
calendar days.
   C.   Removal Of Snow From Driveways, Sidewalks: No person, in cleaning snow
from private lots, parking areas, driveways, filling stations, garages or other
large areas, shall pile or redistribute such snow on any street, alley or
sidewalk which in any way tends to narrow or restrict the traveled portion of
the street, sidewalk or alley, block the vision of motorists at an
intersection, prevent parking at a curb, or in any way impede snow removal or
create a traffic hazard. Sidewalks in business districts are to be kept clean
by the abutting property owners.
   D.   Parking On Snow Routes:
      1.   It shall be unlawful, where parking is not otherwise prohibited, for
any person to stop, stand, park or leave unattended a motor vehicle on the
following streets which are designated as "snow routes", in the village, after
one inch (1") of snow has fallen, until same has been removed:
         49th Avenue, from 95th Street to 99th Street.
         49th Avenue, from Southwest Highway to Columbus Drive.
         50th Avenue, from 87th Street to Columbus Drive.
         52nd Avenue, from 87th Street to 109th Street.
         54th Avenue, from Oak Center Drive to 91st Street.
         89th Place, from Ridgeland Avenue to Oak Park Avenue.
         89th Street, from 49th Avenue to Tulley Avenue.
         89th Street, from Central Avenue to Mobile Avenue.
         91st Street, from Cicero Avenue to Oak Park Avenue.
         93rd Street, from Pulaski Road to Kenton Avenue.
         93rd Street, from Southwest Highway to Frontage Road.
         95th Street, from Pulaski Road to Harlem Avenue.
         97th Place, from Cicero Avenue to Kenton Avenue.
         97th Street, from Central Avenue to McVicker Avenue.
         97th Street, from Cicero Avenue to 54th Avenue.
         97th Street, from Kenton Avenue to Pulaski Road.
         97th Street, from Southwest Highway to Ridgeland Avenue.
         99th Street, from Menard Avenue to Pulaski Road.
         99th Street, from Ridgeland Avenue to Austin Avenue.
         101st Street, from Cicero Avenue to Pulaski Road.
         102nd Street, from Central Avenue to Menard Avenue.
         103rd Street, from Central Avenue to Austin Avenue.
         105th Street, from Central Avenue to Pulaski Road.
         107th Street, from Central Avenue to Long Avenue.
         107th Street, from Laramie Avenue to Pulaski Road.
         108th Place, from Kenton Avenue to Kostner Avenue.
         108th Place, from Long Avenue to Washington Avenue.
         109th Street, from Cicero Avenue to Kenton Avenue.
         109th Street, from Cicero Avenue to Laramie Avenue.
         109th Street, from Kostner Avenue to Pulaski Road.
         Alexander Place, from Tulley Avenue to 52nd Avenue.
         Austin Avenue, from 87th Street to 99th Street.
         Columbus Drive, from Cicero Avenue to Sproat Avenue.
         Frontage Road, from 69th Avenue to 93rd Street.
         Kedvale Avenue, from 103rd Street to 107th Street.
         Keeler Avenue, from 91st Place to 111th Street.
         Kenton Avenue, from 93rd Street to 100th Place.
         Kenton Avenue, from 101st Street to 111th Street.
         Kilbourn Avenue, from 93rd Street to Southwest Highway.
         Kostner Avenue, from 95th Street to 111th Street.
         Lavergne Avenue, from 103rd Street to 109th Street.
         Lawler Avenue, from 103rd Street to 105th Street.
         Long Avenue, from 103rd Street to Stony Creek Drive.
         Long Avenue, from 107th Street to 108th Place.
         Melvina Avenue, from 87th Street to 99th Street.
         Menard Avenue, from 87th Street to Southwest Highway.
         Menard Avenue, from 95th Street to railroad tracks.
         Menard Avenue, from 99th Street to 102nd Street.
         Minnick Avenue, from Oak Center Drive to 103rd Street.
         Mobile Avenue, from 87th Street to 93rd Street.
         Nashville Avenue, from 87th Street to 93rd Street.
         Natoma Avenue, from 95th Street to 9800 block.
         Neva Avenue, from 93rd Street to Frontage Road.
         Oak Center Drive, from Cicero Avenue to Central Avenue.
         Oak Park Avenue, from 87th Street to 97th Street.
         Oak Park Avenue, from 97th Street to 9800 east side only.
         Stony Creek Drive, from Long Avenue to Laramie Avenue.
         Washington Avenue, from 107th Street to 108th Place.
      2.   All motor vehicles in violation of the provisions of this subsection
will be subject to being towed away at the owner's expense.
      3.   Appropriate signs shall be posted on the streets designated as snow
routes giving notice of this restriction.
      4.   Any person violating the provisions of this subsection D shall be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense; and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ords. 69-1-1, 79-33-64, 80-24-53; 1985 Code; Ords. 88-11-42, 92-07-
25, 93-24-105, 96-3-8, 99-5-11, 01-03-12, 08-06-21)
11-5-6: NIGHT PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Vehicles On Residential Streets: No person shall park or cause or
permit any vehicle, other than (1) a motor vehicle of the first division as
defined by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-146 (2) a resident-owned, non-
commercial vehicle, used and designed to carry twelve (12) or fewer family
members of the same residence (in which case the vehicle may be parked on the
street within close proximity of the residence); or (3) a vehicle used and
designed to carry twelve (12) or fewer residents of the same “community
residence,” as defined in Title 4, Chapter 1, Section
4-1-6 , of the Village Code (in which case the vehicle may be parked on the
street in close proximity of the residence), to stand on any public street or
alley in the village between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and seven
o’clock (7:00) A.M. Further, no person shall stand or park any commercial
vehicle on any residential street longer than is necessary for loading or
unloading such vehicle or on any commercial street longer than sixty (60)
minutes or such time as is necessary for loading or unloading such vehicle.
This requirement does not apply to any bus which is parked in a properly
designated bus stop. Any person violating the provisions of this subsection
shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation continues.   
   B.   Commercial Vehicles. No person shall park or cause or permit any
commercial vehicle to stand on any Village street between the hours of one
o’clock (1:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M., unless that commercial
vehicle (without a trailer), bears a Class B Flat Weight Plate pursuant to 625
ILCS 5/3-815, and is parked in close proximity of the person’s residence. No
person may park more than one (1) commercial vehicle meeting the restrictions
of this subsection on any Village street between the hours of one o’clock (1:
00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. Any person violating the provisions of
this subsection shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation continues.
   C.   Vehicles of Certain Classes. No vehicle which has a weight exceeding
10,000 pounds (calculated by adding the vehicle weight plus the weight of its
maximum load capacity) or which exceeds twenty-one (21) feet in length or
exceeds eight (8) feet in width or exceeds nine (9) feet in height may be
parked on any Village street or alley between the hours of one o’clock (1:00)
A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M., except that a resident-owned, non-
commercial vehicle, used and designed to carry twelve (12) or fewer family
members of the same residence; or (3) a vehicle used and designed to carry
twelve (12) or fewer residents of the same “community residence,” as defined in
Title 4, Chapter 1, Section
4-1-6 , of the Village Code, may be parked on the street in close proximity of
the residence. Examples of prohibited vehicles under this subsection include,
but are not limited to, walk-in trucks, box trucks, box vans, cube vans, bob
trucks, cube trucks, delivery trucks, bucket trucks, beverage trucks, single-
axle trucks, school buses, rack trucks, refuse trucks, furniture trucks,
transit buses, truck tractors, cement trucks, dumper trucks, truck sleepers,
and tow trucks. In addition, the overnight parking of such prohibited vehicles
between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. is
not permitted in any residential front, rear or side set back (including a
residential driveway) or in any commercial parking lot (unless properly parked
at a loading dock) or on any vacant parcel within a commercial or residential
zoning district. Any person violating the provisions of this subsection shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation continues.
   D.   Boats On Public Streets And Alleys: It shall be unlawful for any person
to park or cause or permit any boat to stand on any public street or alley in
the village between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o’clock (7:
00) A.M. unless said boat is standing on the public street or alley in
preparation for, or upon a return from, a vacation or trip by the owner or user
of said boat. Where a boat is standing on the public street or alley in
preparation for, or upon a return from, a vacation or trip by the owner or user
thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause or permit said
boat to stand on the public street or alley more than three (3) days prior to
leaving for, or more than three (3) days after returning from, said vacation or
trip. Any person violating the provisions of this subsection shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation continues.
   E.   For purposes of this Section
11-5-6 , a “commercial vehicle” has the same definition as provided in 625 ILCS
5/1-111.8, of the second division as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-146; provided,
however, “commercial vehicles” shall not include, for purposes of this Section
11-5-6 , a vehicle used and designed to carry twelve (12) or fewer residents of
the same “community residence,” as defined in Title 4, Chapter 1, Section
4-1-6 , of the Village Code (in which case the vehicle may be parked on the
street in close proximity of the residence). (1951 Code 14-6-32; Ords. 319, 73-
18-23, 85-10-26; 1985 Code; Ords. 91-1-8, 92-07-25, 99-5-11, 19-28-97, 24-17-
63)
11-5-7: LEAVING VEHICLE UNATTENDED:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition and removing
the key, or when standing upon any perceptible grade without effectively
setting the brake thereon and turning the front wheels to the curb or side of
the street. (1951 Code 14-8-55)
11-5-8: NARROW STREETS:
   A.   The department of public works is hereby authorized to erect signs
indicating no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not
exceed twenty feet (20') or upon one side of a street as indicated by such
signs when the width of the roadway does not exceed thirty feet (30').
   B.   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow streets
as authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle
upon any such street in violation of any such sign. (1969 Code 13-125)
11-5-9: PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PARKING LOTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any public or private
parking lot where facilities are provided for parking for the convenience of
the public or business without the permission of the owner or lessee.
Additional prohibitions pertaining to the overnight parking or storage of
certain vehicles in the village's commercial districts are contained in section
11-5-18 of this chapter. (Ord. 16-11-37)
11-5-10: PARKING REGULATIONS NOT APPLICABLE TO DISABLED VEHICLES:
The regulations of this chapter prohibiting parking shall not apply to the
driver of any vehicle which is disabled on the paved or improved or main
traveled portion of a highway in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in
such position. (1951 Code 14-6-32)
11-5-11: IMPOUNDING AND RELOCATION OF VEHICLE 1 :
Members of the police department of the village are hereby authorized to remove
or cause to be removed any vehicle from any public way to the nearest
authorized village pound or garage as determined and designated by the chief of
police under the circumstances, including, but not limited to, those
hereinafter enumerated. The removal of all vehicles hereunder shall be in
accordance with the procedure set forth in the general order to the police
department, as amended from time to time, prepared and issued by the chief of
police.
   A.   When a vehicle upon any public way is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
   B.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any public way and is so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
   C.   When an abandoned vehicle is found on any public way.
   D.   When any vehicle illegally occupies parking meter space for an
unreasonable period of time.
   E.   When any vehicle is parked in violation of official signs indicating
that parking, standing or stopping is prohibited for a longer time than
indicated on such sign.
   F.   When any vehicle is parked within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   G.   When any commercial vehicle is parked in violation of section
11-5-6 of this chapter.
   H.   When any vehicle is parked in violation of subsection 11-5-5D of this
chapter.
When any emergency arises necessitating the removal of any vehicle upon any
public way, members of the department of police are hereby authorized to remove
or have removed any such vehicle from one location to any other location.
Members of the police department of the village are also authorized to remove
or cause to be removed any vehicle parked on private property without the
consent of the property owner or his authorized agent. The removal of vehicles
parked on private property shall also be in accordance with the procedures set
forth in the aforesaid general order to the police department. (Ord. 84-4-5)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-10-2 of this title.
11-5-12: OAK LAWN COMMUTER PARKING LOT:
   A.   Approved Freestanding Signs: Approved freestanding signs and/or
pavement marking controlling, informing and directing vehicles to stop, to
proceed only one way, not to turn right, not to turn left, not to enter, not to
park more than fifteen (15) minutes, or otherwise controlling and regulating
traffic along and upon the property commonly known as the Oak Lawn Commuter
Parking Lot, shall be installed by the village in the Oak Lawn Commuter Parking
Lot at the specific locations designated on exhibit A attached to the ordinance
codified herein, and made a part hereof by reference.
   B.   Obeying Signs: Except for emergency vehicles, it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive, operate or cause to be driven or operated, any vehicle
along, upon or over the property commonly known as the Oak Lawn Commuter
Parking Lot without obeying the directions of each stop sign, one-way sign, no
right turn sign, no left turn sign, do not enter sign, fifteen (15) minute
parking only sign, or other traffic control sign or device in the Oak Lawn
Commuter Parking Lot.
   C.   Special Parking For Handicapped: Special parking areas for the
exclusive use of handicapped persons shall be provided on the property commonly
known as the Oak Lawn Commuter Parking Lot at the specific locations designated
on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein, and made a part hereof
by reference, and shall be indicated by freestanding signs and/or pavement
markings installed by the village.
   D.   Displaying Handicap Identification Card: Except for emergency vehicles,
vehicles being driven or operated by or for the use of handicapped persons,
vehicles displaying handicapped person state license plates or vehicles
displaying a handicapped person identification card, it shall be unlawful for
any person to park any motor vehicle in, cause any motor vehicle to obstruct,
or otherwise obstruct, any of the special parking areas established by this
section for the exclusive use of handicapped persons.
   E.   Parking By Paying Daily Fee: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle,
Monday through Friday, in designated daily fee parking stalls within the Oak
Lawn Commuter Parking Lot without having paid the sum of two dollars ($2.00)
for the privilege of parking within said parking stall for a period of twenty
four (24) hours. Said twenty four (24) hours shall be measured from 0500 hours
to 0459 hours of the next day.
   F.   Parking By Permit Only: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle,
Monday through Friday, in any designated stall within the Oak Lawn Commuter
Parking Lot, except stalls designated as daily fee stalls, unless there is
displayed, in the window of said vehicle which faces the aisle, a permit
authorizing the parking of said vehicle in the Oak Lawn Commuter Parking Lot.
No permit shall be issued to any permittee without the permittee having waived
all rights of action which the permittee may have against the village for
injuries or property damage which might arise in any manner out of the use of
the parking facility. This waiver of rights of action shall be a condition to
the issuance of a parking permit and shall be contained within the body of the
parking permit. Permits shall be issued upon payment of a quarterly fee of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) during 2006 and a quarterly fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) during 2007 and subsequent years.
   G.   Designated Parking Stall: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in
the Oak Lawn Commuter Parking Lot in a place other than totally within a
designated parking stall.
   H.   Illegally Parked Vehicles To Be Towed:
      1.   Any vehicle which is parked in the Oak Lawn Commuter Parking Lot or
Oak Lawn annex lots and which does not display the appropriate valid parking
permit (except for those parking spaces indicated for other than permit
parking), shall be towed at the owner's expense in accordance with law, and
appropriate signs shall be posted so indicating.
      2.   Any vehicle which is parked in the Oak Lawn Commuter Parking Lot in
a daily fee parking stall, and for which the fee required by subsection E of
this section has not been paid, shall be towed at the owner's expense in
accordance with law, and appropriate signs shall be posted so indicating.
      3.   Any vehicle which is parked in the Oak Lawn Commuter Parking Lot in
violation of any of the provisions contained in subsection B or D of this
section, shall be towed at the owner's expense in accordance with law, and
appropriate signs shall be posted so indicating.
   I.   Additional Remedies; Penalty: In addition to the towing provisions set
forth in subsection H of this section, any person, firm or corporation
violating any of the provisions of this section shall be fined not less than
the penalty amounts set forth in section
11-11-9 of this title.
   J.   Oak Lawn Commuter Parking Lot; Defined: For purposes of this section,
the "Oak Lawn Commuter Parking Lot" is defined as that parking lot bounded by
the Wabash Railroad (Norfolk and Southern) on the north, 51st Avenue on the
east, 96th Street on the south and Tulley Avenue on the west.
   K.   Oak Lawn Commuter Parking Annex Lots; Defined: For the purposes of this
section, the "Oak Lawn Commuter Parking Annex Lots" are defined as those
parking areas located as follows:
      1.   Annex lot A: The north side of 96th Street, from 52nd Avenue to Cook
Avenue.
      2.   Annex lot B: The south side of Yourell Drive, from Cook Avenue to
53rd Avenue.
      3.   Annex lot C: The south side of Yourell Drive from 52nd Avenue to
Cook Avenue.
      4.   Annex lot D: The south side of Columbus Drive, from 50th Avenue to
51st Avenue.
      5.   Annex lot E: The 8th through 15th parking stalls on the west side of
Tulley Avenue, north of 96th Street, and the 11th through 26th parking stalls
on the east side of Tulley Avenue, north of 96th Street.
      6.   Annex lot F: The parking lot associated with the Cook school,
located west of Cook Avenue, north of Yourell Drive and south of the Cook
school building. (Ords. 84-26-78, 85-12-36, 87-13-51, 89-21-70, 92-07-25, 93-
11-41, 99-5-11, 99-19-63, 04-05-22, 06-23-141, 08-06-24, 08-16-41)
11-5-13: PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES, PARKING:
   A.   Definition, Person With Disabilities: A natural person who, as
determined by a licensed physician, by a licensed physician assistant, by a
licensed advanced practice registered nurse, or by a licensed physical
therapist: (1) cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace,
cane, crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other assistive
device; (2) is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that his or her
forced (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than one liter, or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest; (3) uses portable oxygen; (4) has a cardiac
condition to the extent that the person’s functional limitations are classified
in severity as Class III or Class IV, according to standards set by the
American Heart Association; (5) is severely limited in the person’s ability to
walk due to an arthritic, neurological, oncological, or orthopedic condition;
(6) cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest because of one of the above 5
conditions; or (7) is missing a hand or arm or has permanently lost the use of
a hand or arm.
   B.   Persons With Disabilities, Parking, Exemptions:
      1.   A motor vehicle bearing registration plates issued to a “person with
disabilities”, as defined by subsection A of this section, or to a veteran with
a disability, or displaying a special decal, device or placard issued pursuant
to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-616 or 5/11-1301.2, of the Illinois motor
vehicle code and subsection C of this section, or a motor vehicle registered in
another jurisdiction upon which is displayed a registration plate, special
decal, device or placard issued by the other jurisdiction designating the
vehicle is operated by or for a handicapped person, shall be exempt from the
payment of parking meter fees and exempt from any statute or ordinance imposing
time limitations on parking except limitations of one-half (1/2) hour or less,
on any street or highway zone, or any parking lot or parking place which is
owned, leased or owned and leased by the village or a municipal parking
utility; but such vehicle shall be subject to the laws which prohibit parking
in “no stopping” and “no standing” zones in front of or near fire hydrants,
driveways, public building entrances and exits, bus stops and loading areas,
and is prohibited from parking where the motor vehicle constitutes a traffic
hazard whereby such vehicle shall be moved at the instruction and request of a
law enforcement officer to a location designated by the officer. Any motor
vehicle bearing registration plates or a special decal, device or placard as
specified in this section or such devices as local authorities deem proper as
evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for a person with disabilities or
veteran with a disability, may park, in addition to any other lawful place, in
any parking space specifically reserved for such vehicles by the posting of an
official sign as provided under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-301 of the
Illinois motor vehicle code. Parking privileges granted by this section are
strictly limited to the person to whom the special registration plate, special
decal, device or placard was issued and to qualified operators acting under his
express direction while the disabled person is present.
      2.   No person shall use any area for the parking of any motor vehicle
pursuant to section
11-5-1  of this chapter or where an official sign controlling such area
expressly prohibits parking at any time or during certain hours.
   C.   Special Decals For Persons With Disabilities Parking:
      1.   Temporary Or Permanent Special Decal: The village clerk or the
village clerk’s designees may issue temporary or permanent special decals for
persons with disabilities parking in accordance with the administrative rules
of the secretary of state which set forth the design, size and color of a
person with disabilities motorist decal, device or placard which may be used on
issuance thereof to a person with disabilities or not for profit organization
which transports persons with disabilities. This decal, device or placard shall
be the property of such person with disabilities or organization and may be
used by that person or organization to designate and identify a vehicle not
owned or displaying a registration plate, as provided in 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-609 and 5/3-616, of the Illinois motor vehicle code, to designate
when the vehicle is being used to transport said person or persons with
disabilities, and thus is entitled to enjoy all of the privileges that would be
afforded a persons with disabilities license vehicle.
      2.   Provision, Issuance, And Placement Of Decal, Device or Placard: The
village clerk shall be responsible for the provision of such decal, device or
placard, its issuance and designated placement within the vehicle. The cost of
such decal, device or placard shall be as determined, from time to time, by the
president and board of trustees.
      3.   Application; Physician’s Statement: Upon receiving an application
for a special decal, device or placard for persons with disabilities parking,
accompanied with payment of the fee, as set by the president and board of
trustees pursuant to subsection C2 of this section, from a person with
disabilities, the village clerk, if so requested, shall issue to such person
the special decal, device or placard; provided, that any person making such a
request must submit a statement certified by a licensed physician to the effect
that such person is a “person with disabilities” as defined by subsection A of
this section and further provided that such person with disabilities must not
be disqualified from obtaining a driver’s license under 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-103(8), of the Illinois motor vehicle code.
      4.   Issuance To Persons Without Disabilities: The village clerk shall
issue a special decal, device or placard for persons with disabilities parking
to a person without disabilities if a member of that person’s immediate family
is a “person with disabilities” as defined by subsection A of this section and
does not possess a vehicle registered in the name of the person with
disabilities bearing registration plates issued by the state to a person with
disabilities; provided, that the person with disabilities relies frequently on
the applicant for transportation in the vehicle to be registered. Only two (2)
vehicles per family may be registered under this subsection. Any person
requesting a special decal, device or placard under this subsection shall
submit a physician’s statement as required in subsection C3 of this section and
a statement describing the circumstances qualifying for issuance of a special
decal, device or placard under this subsection.
      5.   Restrictions On Special Decals: Where the village clerk issues a
temporary special decal for persons with disabilities parking under this
subsection C, said temporary special decal shall only be valid for a period of
no more than ninety (90) days, and shall not be subject to renewal.
   D.   Unauthorized Use Of Parking Reserved For Persons With Disabilities:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle which is not bearing
registration plates, or special decals, devices or placards issued to a “person
with disabilities”, as defined in subsection A of this section, or to a veteran
with a disability, as evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for a person
with disabilities or veteran with a disability, in any parking place, including
any private or public off street parking facility, specifically reserved, by
the posting of an official sign as designated under 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-301, for motor vehicles bearing such registration plates or
special decals, devices or placards.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park any
motor vehicle bearing registration plates, or special decals, devices or
placards issued to a “ person with disabilities”, as defined in subsection A of
this section, or to a veteran with a disability, in any parking place,
including any private or public off street parking facility, specifically
reserved, by the posting of an official sign as designated under 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-301, for motor vehicles bearing such registration plates
or special decals, devices or placards, at any time that a person with
disabilities or veteran with a disability is not accompanying said person
either at the time the vehicle is parked or at the time said vehicle leaves the
parking space.
      3.   Any person who violates subsection D1 or D2 of this section shall be
subject to a fine as set forth in subsection
11-11-9 A of this title.
      4.   Any persons or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off street parking facility may, after notifying the police department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by persons with
disabilities which does not display persons with disabilities registration
plates or a special decal, device or placard as required under this section.
(Ords. 85-12-36, 89-21-70, 92-08-34, 95-23-106, 99-5-11, 06-07-35, 24-06-20)
11-5-14: IMMOBILIZATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   A program of vehicle immobilization shall be instituted and implemented
through the office of the chief of police of the village, whereby eligible
vehicles shall be immobilized by the placement of a restraint in a manner such
as to prevent their operation. A vehicle shall be eligible for immobilization
under the following criteria:
      1.   The registered owner of the motor vehicle has accumulated three (3)
complaints or more pursuant to this chapter which are not adjudicated, for
which no payment has been made, or for which no appearance has been filed
within the time specified by the parking violation complaints; and
      2.   The registered owner of said motor vehicle must have received notice
of eligibility for immobilization under the procedures listed in subsection B
of this section.
   B.   Written notice of eligibility for immobilization shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, and by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to the registered owner of the motor vehicle, at the address to which
the motor vehicle is registered, at least twenty one (21) days prior to placing
the registration plate number on the eligibility list. Notice shall be sent as
follows:
      1.   The address of the registered owner shall be determined from the
records of the Illinois secretary of state, or in the case of a vehicle bearing
a registration number of a state other than Illinois, from the records of that
state's registry of motor vehicles;
      2.   The notice shall state the name and address of the registered owner,
the state registration number of the motor vehicle, the nature of the
ordinances violated and the serial numbers and issue dates of the complaints
referred to in subsection A1 of this section; and
      3.   The notice shall advise that a person may challenge the validity of
the notice of eligibility for immobilization as set forth in subsection C of
this section.
   C.   A challenge of the validity of the notice of eligibility for
immobilization must be made in person to the chief of police, or his/her
designee, only on grounds which would conclusively disprove liability, such as:
      1.   The person was not the owner or lessee of the motor vehicle on the
date or dates the complaints were issued; or
      2.   The fines or penalties for the violations cited were paid; or
      3.   The registered owner has not accumulated three (3) or more parking
violation complaints which are unpaid, not adjudicated, or for which no
appearance has been filed.
   D.   Should no determination be made that eligibility of the motor vehicle
for immobilization be invalid within the twenty one (21) day period, the state
registration number of said vehicle shall be placed on the immobilization list
and immobilization shall proceed as follows:
      1.   A notice shall be placed in a conspicuous place on the motor vehicle
warning that any attempt to move the vehicle while the immobilization device is
attached may result in damage to the vehicle;
      2.   The notice shall set forth the following procedure for release of
the immobilization device: the owner of the immobilized vehicle, or another
authorized person, may within twenty four (24) hours:
         a.   Pay all fees for immobilization and penalties due on the
outstanding complaints listed in the notice of eligibility for immobilization,
or may pay a deposit prior to a hearing as provided in subsection F of this
section; or
         b.   Present copies of appearances filed with the clerk of the circuit
court of Cook County on all outstanding complaints specified in the notice of
eligibility; or
         c.   Deposit collateral in the amount of the number of outstanding
complaints listed in the notice of eligibility for immobilization times five
dollars ($5.00), but not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), and
execute an agreement to present copies of appearances filed with the clerk of
the circuit court of Cook County on all outstanding complaints specified in the
notice of eligibility for immobilization within twenty one (21) days from the
date of the agreement. Such collateral shall be returned upon receipt of copies
of the appearances, but shall be forfeited if the owner does not present such
copies and the forfeited collateral may not be used to satisfy any unpaid fees
or penalties. Upon forfeiture of collateral, the motor vehicle involved shall
again be subject to immediate immobilization and no further deposit of
collateral as described in this subsection shall again be allowed as a method
of release; and
      3.   The notice shall warn the owner that the immobilized vehicle will be
towed and impounded if release is not obtained under subsection D2a, D2b, or
D2c of this section within twenty four (24) hours after the vehicle has been
immobilized and that the costs of immobilization, towing and impoundment must
be paid in addition to the penalties due on the outstanding complaints listed
on the notice of eligibility for impoundment, or the deposit for a hearing as
provided in subsection F of this section must be paid, before the vehicle will
be released from impoundment.
   E.   Within fifteen (15) days after a vehicle has been towed and impounded,
notice of impoundment shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the registered owner of
the motor vehicle at the address to which the motor vehicle is registered. The
notice shall state that the owner has a right to a hearing as specified in
subsection F of this section, and that if release is not obtained under the
procedures in subsection D3 of this section within thirty (30) days the vehicle
will be considered an abandoned vehicle as provided in chapter 10 of this title
and subject to disposal as provided.
   F.   The fee for immobilization shall be forty dollars ($40.00) and the fee
for towing shall be fifty dollars ($50.00); provided, however, that no fees
shall be assessed for any immobilization or tow which has been determined to be
in error pursuant to a hearing which shall be held under the following
procedure:
      1.   A deposit of twenty five dollars ($25.00) on the immobilization fee
and twenty five dollars ($25.00) on the towing fee must be submitted within
twenty one (21) days of the receipt of a notice pursuant to subsection E of
this section, or twenty one (21) days after immobilization, whichever is later,
with a written demand to the chief of police for a hearing on whether the motor
vehicle was properly included on the immobilization list;
      2.   The hearing shall be held before a hearing officer designated by the
chief of police within forty eight (48) hours of the receipt of the demand and
the deposit required, unless an extension of time is agreed to by the parties;
      3.   Failure to demand or to attend a scheduled hearing shall be deemed a
waiver of the right to a hearing. In the event of a failure to attend the
scheduled hearing the deposit shall be forfeited and applied to towing or
immobilization fees specified in this subsection F; and
      4.   A hearing as provided in this subsection shall not determine the
validity of or otherwise adjudicate any citation or parking violation issued
relative to the immobilized vehicle but only shall determine the validity of
assessment of the fees for immobilization and/or towing. (Ords. 91-9-36, 99-5-
11, 05-23-88)
11-5-15: PARKING WITHOUT DISPLAYING A VALID STATE REGISTRATION PLATE AND
REGISTRATION STICKER:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street, right of way or
alley, within any village owned parking lot or within any private parking lot
in relation to which the village has entered into an enforcement agreement
pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209, without displaying a valid
current state registration plate and registration sticker as required by 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-413 or, in the case of vehicles registered to an
address outside of the state, a valid current vehicle license plate from said
other jurisdiction. (Ord. 96-4-18)
11-5-16: MUNICIPAL PARKING LOT RESTRICTIONS:
The following regulations shall apply within the identified municipal parking
lots:
   A.   The 9510 South Parkside Avenue Parking Lot (PIN 24-08-205-017):
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle exiting from the
parking lot onto Parkside Avenue to make a right turn so as to travel south on
Parkside Avenue.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in the parking lot other
than between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
(Ord. 98-17-74)
11-5-17: PARKING RESTRICTION HOLIDAYS:
   A.   For purposes of any parking restriction ordinance or code provision
that exempts holidays from the restriction, the following days shall, in
accordance with 205 Illinois Compiled Statutes 630/17(a), be considered
holidays:
      1.   January 1 (New Year's Day);
      2.   The third Monday in January (observance of Martin Luther King, Jr.'s
birthday);
      3.   February 12 (Abraham Lincoln's birthday);
      4.   The third Monday in February (Presidents' Day);
      5.   The first Monday in March (observance of Casimir Pulaski's
birthday);
      6.   The Friday preceding Easter Sunday (Good Friday);
      7.   The last Monday of May (Memorial Day);
      8.   July 4 (Independence Day);
      9.   The first Monday in September (Labor Day);
      10.   The second Monday in October (Columbus Day);
      11.   November 11 (Veterans Day);
      12.   The fourth Thursday in November (Thanksgiving Day);
      13.   December 25 (Christmas Day); and
      14.   The days upon which the general elections for members of the house
of representatives are held. (Ord. 99-7-13)
11-5-18: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES PARKING AND STORAGE:
The overnight parking or storage of the following commercial vehicles in any
commercial district within the village shall be prohibited regardless of owner
or lessee consent unless the vehicle is directly related to the business
conducted on the property, for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers,
merchandise or other contents, or for performing other necessary work on the
property:
   A.   Truck.
   B.   Tractor.
   C.   Trailer.
   D.   Semi-trailer.
   E.   Construction vehicle.
   F.   Bus.
   G.   Limousine.
   H.   Tow truck.
   I.   Recreational vehicle.
   J.   Any other large commercial and nonstandard passenger vehicles. (Ord.
16-11-37)
11-5-19: CERTAIN VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT AND MACHINERY IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS
PROHIBITED:
No vehicles, equipment, or machinery designed for the movement of earth, snow,
roadwork, or for use on a farm (including, but not limited to, bulldozers, road
graders, tractors, cranes, rollers, and snow plows), or implements or
attachments for such machinery or equipment (including but not limited to
commercial snow blades), shall be parked or stored on any street, highway,
alley or premises located in any district classified as a residential district
upon the zoning district maps of the Village, unless such equipment or
machinery is engaged in work on the premises; provided, however, owners or
leaseholders of a residential property shall be permitted to store the
following: (1) up to one (1) snow blade for plowing snow in the driveway of
their residential premises, and (2) subject to snow route and other parking
restrictions contained in this Title, owners of snow plows and/or pick-up
trucks with attached snow blades may park such vehicles on a Village street in
legal parking spaces in close proximity of their residence for non-consecutive
twenty-four hour periods during the months of December through March.
No tow truck, as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-205.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code,
may be parked or stored upon any street, highway, alley, or premises located in
any district classified as a residential district upon the zoning district maps
of the Village. (Ord. 24-17-63)
11-5-20: PARKING OF TRAILERS, MOTOR HOMES AND CAMPERS:
For purposes of this section, TRAILER shall be defined as any vehicle without
motive power in operation designed for carrying persons or property and for
being drawn by a motor vehicle. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park any trailer,
whether licensed or not, on any street, highway, or parkway within the village,
or upon any property within the village zoned for residential use unless the
trailer is at all times parked in a completely enclosed garage. The permitted
exceptions are:
   A.   Trailers being used in the normal course of construction work being
performed on the premises may be parked on the premises during the period of
construction.
   B.   Trailers being used in the normal course of construction work being
performed on the premises immediately adjacent to the portion where the trailer
is parked may be temporarily parked on village roadways for a period not to
exceed 12 hours.
   C.   Trailers of utility companies used to provide emergency services and
providing services within the village may be temporarily parked on village
roadways or within residential zones during such time as the utility company
employee assigned the use of the trailer is off-duty but on-call.
   D.   A camping trailer, motor home, travel trailer, boat trailer, truck
camper or van camper used primarily for recreational purposes, and not used
commercially, nor for hire, may be parked on a registered owner’s or
leaseholder’s residential property in the driveway or in the side yard, on a
paved, impervious surface. (Ord. 24-17-63)
11-5-21: PARKING RESTRICTED FOR TRUCKS CARRYING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
11-5-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of Sections
11-5-21 ,
11-5-21-1 , and
11-5-21-2 , the following words shall be defined as follows:
CORROSIVE: Any substance which in contact with living tissue causes destruction
of tissue by chemical action; but does not refer to action on inanimate
surfaces.
FLAMMABLE-COMBUSTIBLE: Any substance which has a flashpoint of above twenty
degrees (20 ) to and including eighty degrees (80 ) Fahrenheit as determined by
the Tagliabue Open Cup Tester, and “extremely flammable” means any substance
which has a flashpoint at or below twenty (20) degrees Fahrenheit as determined
by the Tagliabue Open Cup Tester, and “combustible” means any substance which
has a flashpoint above eighty (80) degrees Fahrenheit to and including one
hundred fifty (150) degrees, as determined by the Tagliabue Open Cup Tester.
HIGHLY TOXIC: Any substance which produces death within fourteen (14) days in
at least half of a group of ten (10) or more laboratory white rats each
weighing between two hundred (200) and three hundred (300) grams, when a single
dose of fifty (50) milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight, is orally
administered or when inhaled continuously for a period of one hour or less at
an atmospheric concentration of two hundred (200) parts per million by volume
or less of gas or vapor or two (2) milligrams per liter by volume or less of
mist or dust, provided such concentration is likely to be encountered by man
when the substance is used in any reasonably foreseeable manner, or which
produces death within fourteen (14) days in at least half of a group of ten
(10) or more rabbits tested in a dosage of two hundred (200) milligrams or less
per kilogram of body weight, when administered by continuous contact with the
bare skin for twenty four (24) hours or less.
IRRITANT: Any substance, not corrosive, which on immediate, prolonged or
repeated contact with normal living tissue will induce local inflammatory
reaction.
RADIOACTIVE SUBSTANCE: Any substance which emits ionizing radiation.
TOXIC: Any substance (other than a radioactive substance) which has the
capacity to produce bodily injury or illness to man through ingestion,
inhalation, or absorption through any body surface.
TRUCK: Every motor vehicle being, used or maintained for the transportation of
property which includes any of the above-listed corrosive, flammable-
combustible, highly toxic, irritant, and/or radioactive substances or any
transported substances which are either in a frozen state or heated state,
contact with which would destroy living tissue. (Ord. 24-17-63)
11-5-21-2: TRUCK PARKING RESTRICTED:
No person shall stop or park a truck, as defined in section
11-5-21-1 , or permit a truck to stand at any time, at any place, within the
Village within one thousand feet (1,000') of any building or structure used for
residential purposes, except: In the case where the property on the truck is
being unloaded for use on the premises where the truck is parked, and the truck
departs the premises as soon as reasonably possible after unloading is
complete, or not longer than two (2) hours, whichever is less. However, the two
(2) hour restriction may be extended by two (2) hours, if the Police Department
and Fire Department are notified prior to the expiration of the initial two (2)
hour period.
In the event that the driver and/or operator of the truck should be unable to
move the truck further than the one thousand feet (1,000') of a residential
structure due to mechanical problems, the driver and/or operator shall, as soon
as possible, notify the Police Department and Fire Protection District and
advise said agencies of the location and cargo of said truck.
It shall be unlawful for a person to stop or park a truck or permit a truck to
stand within the Village in violation of the hereinabove regulations.
No truck which has a weight exceeding 10,000 pounds (calculated by adding the
vehicle weight plus the weight of its maximum load capacity) or which exceeds
twenty-one (21) feet in length or exceeds eight (8) feet in width or exceeds
nine (9) feet in height may be parked on any public street or alley. The
overnight parking of such trucks is not permitted in any residential front,
rear or side set back (including a residential driveway) or in any commercial
parking lot (unless properly parked at a loading dock) or on any vacant parcel
within a commercial or residential zoning district. (Ord. 24-17-63)
CHAPTER 6
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Obedience to Traffic-Control Signals
11-6-2: Right of Way at Crosswalks
11-6-3: Crossing at Other Than Crosswalks
11-6-4: Blind Persons, Right of Way
11-6-5: Standing on Sidewalks
11-6-6: Soliciting Rides
11-6-7: Walking on Streets
11-6-1: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals at intersections as
heretofore declared in this Title but at all other places pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
Chapter. (1951 Code 14-11-78)
11-6-2: RIGHT OF WAY AT CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Where traffic-control signals are not in place or in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked
crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, except as
otherwise provided in this Chapter.
   B.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a mark ed crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   C.   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections,
pedestrians shall have the right of way over drivers of vehicles as set forth
in subsection 11-4-2D of this Title.
   D.   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks. (1951 Code 14-11-76; 1969 Code 13-137)
11-6-3: CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway. (1951 Code 14-11-77)
11-6-4: BLIND PERSONS, RIGHT OF WAY:
Any blind person who is carrying in a raised or extended position a cane or
walking stick which is white in color or white tipped with red, or who is being
guided by a dog, shall have the right of way in crossing any street or highway,
whether or not traffic on such street or highway is controlled by traffic
signals, anything in this Chapter to the contrary notwithstanding. The driver
of every vehicle approaching the place where a blind person, so carrying such a
cane or walking stick or being so guided, is crossing a street or highway shall
bring his vehicle to a full stop and before proceeding shall take such
precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind person. The
provisions of this Section shall not apply to a blind person who is not so
carrying such a cane or walking stick or who is not guided by a dog, but the
other provisions of this Chapter relating to pedestrians shall then be
applicable to such person. However, the failure of a blind person to so use or
carry such cane or walking stick or to be guided by a guide dog when walking on
streets, highways or sidewalks shall not be considered evidence of contributory
negligence. (1969 Code 13-136)
11-6-5: STANDING ON SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk except as near
as is reasonably possible to the building line or curb line, if such standing
interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other pedestrians. (1951 Code 14-
11-79)
11-6-6: SOLICITING RIDES:
No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from
the driver of any private vehicle. (1951 Code 14-11-77)
11-6-7: WALKING ON STREETS:
   A.   It is the duty of any person walking along and upon improved streets
not having sidewalks to keep on the left of the paved portion, or on the left
shoulder thereof, and upon meeting a vehicle when walking on the said paved
portion to step off to the left.
   B.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway, except in a crosswalk.
   C.   It is unlawful for any pedestrian who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquors to be upon any street of the Village. (1969 Code
11-6-7)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT, CONDITION
SECTION:
11-7-1: Applicability Of Requirements
11-7-2: Lighting Equipment And Signal Lamps
11-7-3: License Plate, Mounting And Illumination
11-7-4: Tires
11-7-5: Brakes
11-7-6: Mirrors
11-7-7: Windshields Unobstructed; Wipers Required
11-7-8: Horns And Warning Devices
11-7-9: Excessive Noise, Smoke Prohibited
11-7-10: Safety Glass
11-7-11: Seat Belts
11-7-12: Projecting Loads, Flags
11-7-13: Second Division Vehicles, Warning Flags And Flares
11-7-14: Vehicles Transporting Explosives, Flammable Liquids
11-7-15: Seat Safety Belts And Child Restraint Systems
11-7-1: APPLICABILITY OF REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any street any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in this chapter, or which is equipped in any manner in
violation of this chapter, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required under this chapter.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers, or
farm tractors or to farm wagon type trailers having a fertilizer spreader
attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a gross weight of not to exceed
ten thousand (10,000) pounds and used only for the transportation of bulk
fertilizer or to farm wagon type tank trailers of not to exceed one thousand
two hundred (1,200) gallons' capacity, used during the liquid fertilizer season
as field storage "nurse tanks" supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator
and moved on highways only for bringing the fertilizer from a local source of
supply to farm or field or from one farm or field to another. (1969 Code 13-
174)
11-7-2: LIGHTING EQUIPMENT AND SIGNAL LAMPS:
   A.   When Required: When upon any street in the village during the period
from sunset to sunrise, or at any other time when visibility is so limited as
to require the use of lights for safety, every motorcycle shall carry and
exhibit one lighted lamp commonly known as a driving light and every motor
vehicle two (2) such lighted lamps showing white lights, or lights of yellow or
amber tint, visible at least five hundred feet (500') in the direction toward
which each motorcycle or motor vehicle is proceeding, and each motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer shall also exhibit at least two (2) lighted lamps which
shall be so situated as to throw a red light visible for at least five hundred
feet (500') in the reverse direction.
   B.   Lamps On Other Vehicles And Equipment: All vehicles, including animal
drawn vehicles and including those referred to in subsection 11-7-1B of this
chapter not hereinbefore specifically required to be equipped with lamps, shall
at all times specified in subsection A of this section be equipped with at
least two (2) lighted lamps or lantern exhibiting a white light visible from a
distance of one thousand feet (1,000') to the front of such vehicle and with a
lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of one thousand
feet (1,000') to the rear.
   C.   Spot Lamps And Auxiliary Driving Lamps:
      1.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed one spot lamp
and every lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another
vehicle that no part of the high intensity portion of the beam will be directed
to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor
more than one hundred feet (100') ahead of the vehicle.
      2.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed three (3)
auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than twelve
inches (12") nor more than forty two inches (42") above the level surface upon
which the vehicle stands.
   D.   Driving With Dim Headlamps: Every vehicle being driven within the
village shall at all times be driven with dimmed headlights or with dropped
headlights on.
   E.   Number Of Driving Lamps:
      1.   At all times specified in subsection A of this section, at least two
(2) lighted lamps shall be displayed, one on each side at the front of every
motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations
governing the lights on parked vehicles.
      2.   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlamps as herein required
is also equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other lamp on
the front thereof projecting a beam of an intensity greater than three hundred
(300) candlepower, not more than a total of four (4) of any such lamps on the
front of a vehicle shall be lighted at any one time when upon a street.
   F.   Certain Lamps Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any
street with any lamp or device thereon displaying a red light visible from
directly in front thereof.
      2.   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a means
for indicating a right or left turn or the presence of a vehicular traffic
hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, overtaking, or passing.
      3.   The provisions of subsections F1 and F2 of this section shall not
apply to vehicles of the second division designed for towing or hoisting
disabled vehicles while actually being used for such purposes, or to motor
vehicles or equipment of state or local authorities, contractors or public
utilities while engaged in maintenance or construction operations within the
limits of construction projects, or to vehicles or equipment used by
engineering or survey crews while actually engaged in work on a street. Nor
shall the provisions of subsection F2 of this section apply to rural mail
delivery vehicles when actually used for such purpose.
   G.   Reflectors Required On Trailers: Every trailer having a gross weight of
three thousand (3,000) pounds or less, including the weight of the trailer and
maximum load, towed either by a motor vehicle of the first division or a motor
vehicle of the second division shall be equipped with two (2) red reflectors,
which will be visible when hit by headlight beams three hundred feet (300')
away at night, on the rear of the body of such trailer, not more than twelve
inches (12") from the lower left hand and right hand corners.
   H.   Signal Lamps and Devices:
      1.   Every vehicle operating in the Village, except vehicles drawn by
animal power, shall be equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on the rear of the
vehicle which shall display a red light visible from a distance of not less
than five hundred feet (500') to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall
be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake, and which may be
incorporated with other rear lamps.
      2.   Every new motor vehicle sold in the Village after July 1, 1966, and
all trailers and semi-trailers shall be equipped with a signal device for
indicating the intention of the driver to turn to the right or to the left in
the form of flashing lights showing to the front and rear of the vehicle or
combination of vehicles on the side of the vehicle or combination toward which
the turn is to be made. The lamps showing to the front shall be mounted on the
same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and, when signaling,
shall emit white or amber light, or any shade of light between white and amber.
The lamps showing to the rear shall be mounted on the same level and as widely
spaced laterally as practicable, and, when signaling, shall emit a red light.
Turn signal lamps may be incorporated in other lamps on the vehicle except
driving lights. Turn signal lamps shall be visible from a distance of not less
than three hundred feet (300') in normal sunlight, provided that until July 1,
1966, all trailers having a gross weight of three thousand (3,000) pounds or
less, including the weight of the trailer and maximum load, shall be equipped
with such turn device if the distance from the center of the steering wheel to
the towing vehicle to the left and outside limits of such trailer body exceeds
twenty four inches (24").
      3.   Motorcycles and motor-driven cycles need not be equipped with
electric turn signals.
   I.   Additional Lighting Equipment:
      1.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two (2) side
cowl or fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
      2.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running
board courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber
light without glare.
      3.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with a back-up lamp either
separately or in combination with another lamp; except that no such back-up
lamp shall be continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
      4.   Any motor vehicle owned or fully operated by a volunteer fireman,
paid fireman, part-paid fireman, or call fireman, may be equipped with not to
exceed two (2) lamps which shall emit a blue light without glare.
   J.   Special Lighting Equipment:
      1.   School Buses: Every bus used for the transportation of school
children to and from school, in addition to any other equipment and distinctive
markings required by this Chapter, shall be equipped with signal lamps mounted
as high and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, which shall be capable
of displaying to the front two (2) alternately flashing red lights located at
the same level, and to the rear two (2) alternately flashing red lights located
at the same level, and these lights shall have the sufficient intensity to be
visible at five hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight. Such signal lamps shall
be connected to the brake pedal by means of a toggle switch and shall be
disconnected when pupils are not being transported to or from their homes or
school.
      2.   Rural Mail Delivery Vehicles: Signal lamps on a rural mail delivery
vehicle, if such vehicle is so equipped, shall be mounted as high and as widely
spaced laterally as practicable, shall display to the front two (2) alternately
flashing yellow lights located at the same level and to the rear two (2)
alternately flashing red lights located at the same level, shall be of
sufficient intensity to be visible at five hundred feet (500') in normal
sunlight, and shall be controlled so that the lamps will only be lighted when
the vehicle is being brought to a stop.
   K.   Oscillating, Rotating, Flashing Lights:
      1.   Except as provided in subsections F and J hereof:
         a.   Red oscillating, rotating or flashing lights are permitted only
on:
            (1)   Law enforcement vehicles of State, Federal and local
authorities;
            (2)   A vehicle operated by a police officer or County Coroner and
designated or authorized by local authorities, in writing, as a law enforcement
vehicle; however, such designation or authorization must be carried in the
vehicle;
            (3)   Vehicles of local Fire Departments and firefighting vehicles
of the State or Federal government;
            (4)   Vehicles which are designed and used as ambulances or rescue
vehicles; furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except when responding
to an emergency call for and while actually conveying the sick or injured.
         b.   Amber oscillating, rotating or flashing lights are permitted only
on:
            (1)   Second division vehicles designed and used for towing or
hoisting vehicles; furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except when
such vehicles are actually being used for such purposes;
            (2)   Motor vehicles or equipment of the State of Illinois, local
authorities and contractors; furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted
except while such vehicles are engaged in maintenance or construction
operations within the limits of construction projects;
            (3)   Vehicles or equipment used by engineering or survey crews;
furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except while such vehicles are
actually engaged in work on a highway;
            (4)   Vehicles of public utilities, municipalities, or other
construction, maintenance or automotive service vehicles, except that such
lights shall be lighted only as a means for indicating the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, overtaking or
passing while such vehicles are engaged in maintenance, service or construction
on a highway;
            (5)   Oversized vehicle or load; however, such lights shall only be
lighted when moving under permit issued by the Illinois Department of
Transportation under section 15-301, chapter 951/2, Illinois Revised Statutes;
            (6)   The front and rear of motorized equipment owned and operated
by the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof, which is
designed and used for removal of snow and ice from highways;
            (7)   Fleet safety vehicles registered in another state;
furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except as provided for in section
12-212, chapter 951/2, Illinois Revised Statutes; and
            (8)   Such other vehicles as may be authorized by local
authorities.
      2.   Blue oscillating, rotating or flashing lights when lighted or
unlighted, are permitted only on vehicles owned or fully operated by a:
voluntary firefighter, paid firefighter, part-paid firefighter, call
firefighter, paid or unpaid member of a rescue squad, paid or unpaid member of
a voluntary ambulance unit, and rescue squad vehicles not owned by a Fire
Department.
However, such lights are not to be lighted except when responding to a bona
fide emergency.
   L.   Lamps on Parked Vehicles: During the period from sunset to sunrise
every motorcycle or motor vehicle which is standing on any highway shall
display a parking light on the front and at the rear of the same. Parking
lights shall not be exhibited on a vehicle in operation on a street in the
Village unless the driving lights are also lighted. However, the Village may by
ordinance, under rules and regulations it may prescribe, designate any part or
parts of any street, or other highway under its jurisdiction, as parking places
in which motorcycles and motor vehicles may be parked without having their
lamps lighted, as otherwise required by this subsection. Such parking place or
places shall be lighted. (1951 Code 14-7-35 through 14-7-42, 14-9-68; 1969 Code
13-182 through 13-187; 1985 Code)
11-7-3: LICENSE PLATE, MOUNTING AND ILLUMINATION:
The license plate at the back of the motor vehicle shall be firmly attached to
the vehicle so that it will not swing loosely, and shall be plainly legible at
a distance of fifty feet (50'). (1951 Code 14-7-36)
11-7-4: TIRES:
It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle which is not
equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the State traffic law 1 .
(1951 Code 14-9-70)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS 5/12-401, 5/12-701.
11-7-5: BRAKES:
It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle upon any street unless such motor
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by the State traffic law 1 , or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanism operating
the brakes of such vehicle. (1951 Code 14-9-66)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS 5/12-301.
11-7-6: MIRRORS:
Every motor vehicle,operated singly or when towing any other vehicle, shall be
equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the
street for a distance of at least two hundred feet (200') to the rear of such
motor vehicle. This Section shall not apply to motorcycles or motor-driven
cycles. (1951 Code 14-8-61)
11-7-7: WINDSHIELDS UNOBSTRUCTED; WIPERS REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster or other
nontransparent material upon the front windshield, sidewings, side or rear
windows of such vehicle, nor with any objects placed or suspended between the
driver and the front windshield or between the driver and the rear window which
obstructs the driver's clear view of the street.
   B.   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the
vehicle.
   C.   No automobile dealership or vender within the corporate limits of the
Village shall sell or lease any motor vehicle with any sign, poster, window
application, reflective material, nonreflective material or tinted film upon
the front windshield, sidewings or side windows immediately adjacent to each
side of the driver's seat, unless the motor vehicle was manufactured prior to
January 1, 1982. This prohibition shall not apply to vehicles sold to any
person afflicted with or suffering from a medical illness, ailment or disease
which would require that person to be shielded from the direct rays of the sun;
or to vehicles that are used in transporting a person when such person resides
at the same address as the registered owner of the vehicle and such person is
afflicted with or suffering from a medical illness, ailment or disease which
would require such person to be shielded from the direct rays of the sun.
It shall be unlawful for any automobile dealership or vendor to sell or lease
any motor vehicle with obstructed windshields, sidewings or side windows in
violation of this subsection C. (1951 Code 14-8-61; Ord. 92-23-83)
11-7-8: HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   Every motor vehicle of the first and second division when operated upon
a highway shall be equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of
emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than
two hundred feet (200'), but no horn or other warning device shall emit an
unreasonable loud or harsh sound or a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle
shall, when reasonably necessary to insure safe operation, give audible warning
with his horn but shall not otherwise use such horn when upon a street.
   B.   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
Section. Any authorized emergency vehicle as defined in Section
11-2-1 of this Title may be equipped with a siren, whistle, or bell, capable of
emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than
five hundred feet (500'), but such siren, whistle or bell shall not be used
except when such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law in which said
latter events the driver of such vehicle shall sound said siren, whistle or
bell, when necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach
thereof. (1951 Code 14-9-63)
11-7-9: EXCESSIVE NOISE, SMOKE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Noisy Vehicles Generally: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle
which makes an unusually loud or unnecessary noise upon any street.
   B.   Mufflers; Prevention of Noise and Smoke: Every motor vehicle shall at
all times be equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a street.
   C.   Sound Amplification System: It shall be unlawful to operate or permit
the operation of any motor vehicle with any sound amplification system which
can be heard outside the motor vehicle from seventy five feet (75') or more,
away from said motor vehicle when said motor vehicle is being operated upon a
public right of way or within any parking area that is open to access by the
public generally, unless such system is being operated to request assistance or
warn of a hazardous situation. This subsection shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles. (1951 Code 14-9-62, 14-9-64, 14-9-67; Ord. 98-22-101)
11-7-10: SAFETY GLASS:
   A.   The term "safety glass" shall mean any product composed of glass, so
manufactured, fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent shattering and
flying of glass when struck or broken, or such other or similar product having
equal resistance.
   B.   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered thereafter which is designed or used for the purpose of
transporting passengers for compensation or as a school bus unless such vehicle
is equipped with safety glass wherever glass is used in doors, windows, and
windshields.
   C.   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle unless such vehicle is
equipped with safety glass wherever glass is used in the doors, windows and
windshields.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person having possession of any
motor vehicle knowingly to replace shattered or broken glass in any door,
window or windshield of such motor vehicle with any type of glass other than
safety glass of a type approved by the Secretary of State as provided by law.
(1969 Code 13-196)
11-7-11: SEAT BELTS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this Section:
   NEW MOTOR VEHICLE: A motor vehicle manufactured or assembled after June 30,
1964, and designated by the manufacturer as a 1965 or later model.
   SEAT SAFETY BELTS: A set of belts or a harness meeting the specifications
established by the Department of Public Safety as provided by law and installed
in such manner as to prevent or materially reduce the movement of the person
using the same in the event of collision or upset of the vehicle.
   B.   Sale Of Vehicle, Seat Belts Required: No person shall sell any new
motor vehicle of the first division unless the front seat of such motor vehicle
is equipped with two (2) sets of seat safety belts for the front seat.
   C.   Required For Operation: No person shall operate any 1961 or later model
motor vehicle of the first division unless the front seat of such motor vehicle
is equipped with two (2) sets of seat safety belts for the front seat.
   D.   Installation Requirements, Penalty: No person shall sell or install a
set of seat safety belts which does not meet the performance specifications
established by the Department of Public Safety, and any violation of this
subsection is punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (1969 Code 13-197; 1985 Code; Ord. 99-5-11)
11-7-12: PROJECTING LOADS, FLAGS:
Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet (4') or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified in subsection 11-7-2A of this
Chapter, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern
required under this Section shall be in addition to the red rear light required
upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than twelve inches (12")
square. (1951 Code 14-7-37)
11-7-13: SECOND DIVISION VEHICLES, WARNING FLAGS AND FLARES:
   A.   No person shall operate any motor vehicle of the second division upon a
street outside of a business or residence district at any time unless there is
carried in such vehicle a sufficient number, not less than three (3), of the
following:
      Red warning flags, or
      Flares, or
      Electric lanterns or other signals capable of continuously producing
three (3) warning lights, or
      Red emergency reflectors conforming to the specifications prescribed by
the Interstate Commerce Commission, each visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') for a period of at least twelve (12) hours, except
that a motor vehicle transporting flammable liquid shall carry solely such red
reflectors.
   B.   Disabled Vehicle:
      1.   Whenever any motor vehicle of the second division is disabled during
the period between sunrise and sunset and such vehicle cannot immediately be
removed from the main traveled portion of a street outside of a business or
residence district, the driver or other person in charge of such vehicle shall
cause such red warning flags to be placed upon the street, one at a distance of
approximately two hundred feet (200') in advance of such vehicle and one each
at a distance of approximately two hundred feet (200') and one hundred feet
(100') respectively to the rear of the vehicle.
      2.   Whenever any motor vehicle of the second division is disabled during
the period between sunset and sunrise and such motor vehicle cannot immediately
be removed from the main traveled portion of a street outside of a business or
residence district, the driver or other person in charge of such vehicle shall
cause such flares, lanterns, red reflectors, or other signals to be lighted
and/or placed upon the street, one at a distance of approximately one hundred
feet (100') in advance of such vehicle, one at a distance of approximately one
hundred feet (100') to the rear of the vehicle, and the third upon the roadway
side of the vehicle, except that if the vehicle is transporting flammables,
three (3) such red reflectors shall be so placed and no open burning flare
shall be placed adjacent to any such last mentioned vehicle.
   C.   Transporting Explosives: No person shall at any time operate a vehicle
transporting explosives as a cargo or part of a cargo upon a street unless it
carries red warning flags and flares or electric lanterns or red reflectors as
herein required, but such flares or electric lanterns must be capable of
producing a red light and shall be displayed upon the roadway when and as
required in this section. (1969 Code 13-199)
11-7-14: VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES, FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
   A.   Explosives: Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive
as a cargo or part of a cargo upon a street shall at all times comply with the
provisions of this section.
      1.   Said vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word "Explosives" in letters not less than four inches (4") high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
twenty four inches (24") square marked with the word "Danger" in white letters
six inches (6") high.
      2.   Every said vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two (2) fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, placed at a convenient point
on the vehicle used.
   B.   Flammable Liquids: No person shall operate upon the streets in the
village any second division motor vehicle customarily used in cargo
transportation of flammable liquids during the hours when lighted lamps are
required under subsection 11-7-2A of this chapter unless such vehicle is marked
or placarded in reflectorized paint on each side and rear with the word
"Flammable" in letters not less than four inches (4") high.
   C.   Use Of Streets Restricted: No person shall drive a vehicle containing
explosives or flammable liquids upon any street of the village, except U.S. or
state marked highways, unless said vehicle has a destination to deliver said
cargo in the village. (1969 Code 13-200, 13-201; 1985 Code)
11-7-15: SEAT SAFETY BELTS AND CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEMS:
   A.   For purposes of this section, "seat safety belts" shall mean a set of
belts or a harness meeting the specifications established by the Illinois
department of transportation and installed in such a manner as to prevent or
materially reduce the movement of the person using the same in the event of a
collision or upset of the motor vehicle. The Illinois department of
transportation shall establish and maintain the performance specifications for
seat safety belts and for the attachment and installation thereof.
   B.   For purposes of this section, "child restraint system" shall mean any
device which meets the standards of the United States department of
transportation designed to restrain, seat or position children.
   C.   No person shall sell any 1965 or later model motor vehicle of the first
division unless the front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped with at least
two (2) sets of seat safety belts. Motorcycles are exempt from the provisions
of this subsection.
   D.   No person shall operate a 1965 or later model motor vehicle of the
first division that is titled or licensed by the secretary of state for the
state of Illinois unless the front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped with
at least two (2) sets of seat safety belts. Motorcycles are exempt from the
provisions of this subsection.
   E.   Each driver and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle operated on a
roadway, street or highway within the village shall wear a properly fastened
and adjusted seat safety belt; except that children under six (6) years of age
shall be protected as required pursuant to the child passenger protection act 1
. Each driver under the age of eighteen (18) years, of a motor vehicle operated
on a roadway, street or highway within this village, and each of said driver's
passengers under the age of eighteen (18) years, shall wear a properly adjusted
and fastened seat safety belt. Each driver of a motor vehicle transporting a
child six (6) years of age or older, but less than sixteen (16) years of age,
in the front seat of the motor vehicle shall secure the child in a properly
fastened and secured seat safety belt.
   F.   When any person is transporting a child in the village under four (4)
years of age in a noncommercial motor vehicle of the first division, a motor
vehicle of the second division with a gross vehicle weight rating of nine
thousand (9,000) pounds or less, or a recreational vehicle, on the roadways,
streets or highways in the village, such person shall be responsible for
providing protection of such child by properly securing him or her in a child
restraint system. The parent or legal guardian of a child under four (4) years
of age shall provide a child restraint system to any person who transports his
or her child. Any person who transports the child of another shall not be found
to be in violation of this subsection unless a child restraint system was
provided to said person by the parent or legal guardian of the child, but was
not used to transport the child.
   G.   Every person, when transporting a child four (4) years of age or older
but under six (6) years of age, in a motor vehicle within the village, shall be
responsible for securing that child in either a child restraint system or a
properly fastened and secured seat safety belt.
   H.   Every person under the age of eighteen (18) years, when transporting a
child six (6) years of age or older but under the age of eighteen (18) years,
in a motor vehicle within the village, shall be responsible for securing that
child in a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt.
   I.   The provisions of subsection E of this section shall not apply to any
of the following:
      1.   A driver or passenger frequently stopping and leaving the motor
vehicle or delivering property from the motor vehicle, if the speed of the
motor vehicle between stops does not exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      2.   A driver or passenger possessing a written statement from a
physician that such person is unable, for medical or physical reasons, to wear
a seat safety belt.
      3.   A driver or passenger possessing an official certificate or license
endorsement issued by the appropriate agency in another state or country
indicating that the driver is unable for medical, physical, or other valid
reasons to wear a seat safety belt.
      4.   A driver operating a motor vehicle in reverse.
      5.   A motor vehicle with a model year prior to 1965.
      6.   A motorcycle, motor driven cycle or motorized pedalcycle.
      7.   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with seat
safety belts under federal law.
      8.   A motor vehicle operated by a rural letter carrier duly employed by
the United States postal service while engaged in the performance of his or her
duties as a rural letter carrier.
   J.   The provisions of subsection F of this section shall not apply to a
child passenger with a physical disability of such a nature as to prevent
appropriate restraint in a seat, provided that the disability is duly certified
by a physician who shall state the nature of the disability, as well as the
reason the restraint is inappropriate.
   K.   Failure to wear a seat safety belt in violation of this section shall
not be considered evidence of negligence, shall not limit the liability of any
insurer, and shall not diminish any recovery for damages arising out of the
ownership, maintenance and/or operation of a motor vehicle.
   L.   In no event shall a person's failure to secure a child under six (6)
years of age in an approved child restraint system, or a properly fastened and
secured seat safety belt if such child is four (4) or five (5) years of age,
constitute contributory negligence or be admissible as evidence of such in the
trial of any civil action.
   M.   Any Oak Lawn police officer may stop any motor vehicle, or driver and/
or passenger of any such motor vehicle, solely on the basis of a violation or
suspected violation of this section at any time while such motor vehicle is
being operated on any roadway, street and/or highway within the village.
   N.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined not
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 02-09-22)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 8
SIZE, WEIGHT AND VEHICLE LOAD
SECTION:
11-8-1: Scope and Effect
11-8-2: Width of Vehicles
11-8-3: Height of Vehicles
11-8-4: Projecting Loads on Passenger Vehicles
11-8-5: Protruding Members of Vehicles
11-8-6: Length of Vehicles
11-8-7: Planking Edge of Pavement
11-8-8: Spilling Loads
11-8-9: Covers or Tarpaulins Required for Certain Loads
11-8-10: Towed Vehicles
11-8-11: Wheel and Axle Loads and Gross Weights
11-8-12: Officers to Weigh Vehicles and Require Removal of Excess Loads
11-8-13: Violations, Penalties
11-8-14: Violations, Sentence of Permit Moves
11-8-15: Violations, Sentence of Permit Moves Exceeding Axle Weights
11-8-16: Violations, Sentence of Permit Moves Exceeding Gross Weight
11-8-17: Pushing of Disabled Vehicles
11-8-18: Vehicles Exceeding Prescribed Weight Limits, Preventing Use of Streets
and Highways By
11-8-19: Enforcement
11-8-20: Permits for Excess Size and Weight
11-8-21: Fees for Special Permits
11-8-22: Transmission Fees
11-8-23: Fees for House Trailer Combinations
11-8-24: Fees for Legal Weight But Over Dimension Vehicles, Combinations, and
Loads, Other than House Trailer Combinations
11-8-25: Fees for Overweight - Axle Loads
11-8-26: Fees for Overweight - Gross Loads
11-8-27: Fees for Police Escort
11-8-28: Supplemental Permit Fee
11-8-29: Payment of Fees
11-8-30: Exemptions to Requirement of Fees
11-8-31: Authority to Restrict Use of Streets
11-8-32: Liability if Street, Highway or Structure Damaged
11-8-33: Weight on Residential Streets
11-8-1: SCOPE AND EFFECT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or move on, upon or across
or for the owner to cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon or
across any highway or street any vehicle or vehicles of a size and weight
exceeding the limitations stated in this Chapter or otherwise in violation of
this Chapter, and the maximum size and weight herein specified shall be lawful
throughout this Village.
   B.   The provisions of this Chapter governing size, height and load do not
apply to fire apparatus or equipment for snow and ice removal operations owned
or operated by any governmental body or to implements of husbandry temporarily
operated or towed in a combination upon a highway or street provided such
combination does not consist of more than three vehicles or, in the case of
hauling fresh, perishable fruits or vegetables from farm to the point of first
processing, not more than three wagons being towed by an implement of
husbandry, or to a vehicle operated under the terms of a special permit issued
by the Village. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-2: WIDTH OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this Section or this Code, the total
outside width of any vehicle or load thereon shall not exceed eight feet (8').
   B.   Except during those times when, due to insufficient light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the highway or
street are not clearly discernable at a distance of one thousand feet (1,000'),
the following vehicles may exceed the eight feet (8') limitation during the
period from a half hour after sunrise to half hour before sunset:
      1.   Loads of hay, straw or other similar farm products provided that the
load is not more than twelve feet (12') wide;
      2.   Implements of husbandry being transported on another vehicle; and
      3.   Portable buildings designed and used for agricultural and livestock
raising operations that are not more than fourteen feet (14') wide and with not
more than a one foot (1') overhang along the left side of the hauling vehicle.
However, such buildings shall not be transported more than ten (10) miles and
not on any route that is part of the National System of Interstate and Defense
Highways.
All such buildings when being so transported shall display at least two (2) red
cloth flags, not less than twelve inches (12") square, mounted as high as
practicable on the left and right side of the building.
A Police escort shall be required if it is necessary for this load to use part
of the left lane when crossing any two (2) laned bridge.
   D.   Exemptions are also granted to vehicles designed for the carrying of
more than ten (10) persons under the following conditions:
      1.   When operated wholly within the limits of the Village. Any such
vehicle so operated may be nine feet (9') in width except that no vehicle more
than eight feet eight inches (8' x 8") inches in width shall be operated on any
route of the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways; or
      2.   When operated within any public transportation service with the
approval of the Village or an appropriate public body authorized by law to
provide public transportation. Any such vehicle so operated may be eight feet
six inches (8' x 6") in width; or
      3.   When a County Superintendent of Highways, after giving due
consideration to the mass transportation needs of the area and to the width and
condition of the road, has determined that the operation of buses wider than
eight feet (8') will not pose an undue safety hazard on a particular county or
township road segment, may authorize buses not to exceed eight feet six inches
(8' x 6") in width on any highway under said Superintendent's jurisdiction.
   E.   A vehicle and load traveling upon the National System of Interstate and
Defense Highways or any other highway in the system of State highways that has
been designated by the Illinois Department of Transportation or any street or
highway designated by the Village or road district commissioners may have a
total outside width of eight feet six inches (8' x 6"), provided that certain
safety devices which the Illinois Department of Transportation determines as
necessary for the safe and efficient operation of motor vehicles shall not be
included in the calculation of width.
Vehicles operating under this subsection E shall have access for a distance of
five (5) highway miles on a street or highway included in the system of State
highways and upon any street or highway designated by the Village or road
district commissioners to points of loading and unloading and to facilities for
food, fuel, repairs and rest. In addition, any trailer or semitrailer not
exceeding twenty eight feet six inches (28' x 6") inches in length, which was
originally in combination with a truck tractor, and all household goods
carriers, when operating under this subsection E, shall have access to points
of loading and unloading.
   F.   Mirrors required by Section
11-7-6 of this Code and other safety devices identified by the Illinois
Department of Transportation may project up to six inches (6") beyond each side
of a vehicle and such projection shall not be deemed a violation of the width
restrictions of this Section.
   G.   Any person who is convicted of violating this Section is subject to the
penalty, as provided in subsection B of Section
11-8-13. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-3: HEIGHT OF VEHICLES:
The height of a vehicle from the under side of the tire to the top of the
vehicle, inclusive of load, shall not exceed thirteen feet six inches (13' x
6").
Any person convicted of violating this Section is subject to the penalty
provided in subsection B of Section
11-8-13. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-4: PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES:
No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on any highway or street with any
load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side
of such vehicle nor extending more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the
fenders on the right side thereof. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-5: PROTRUDING MEMBERS OF VEHICLES:
No vehicle with boom, arm, drill rig or other protruding component shall be
operated upon the highway or street unless such protruding component is
fastened so as to prevent shifting, bouncing or moving in any manner. (Ord. 90-
9-41)
11-8-6: LENGTH OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided for in this Chapter, no single vehicle, with
or without load, other than a semitrailer that is not a house trailer, shall
exceed an overall length of forty two feet (42').
   B.   Subject to the provisions of subsection F and unless otherwise provided
in this Chapter, no truck tractor and semitrailer, unladen or with load, except
a semitrailer other than a house trailer, shall exceed a length of fifty five
feet (55') extreme overall dimension, except that such combination when
specially designed to transport motor vehicles may have a length of sixty feet
(60') extreme overall dimension, subject to those exceptions and special rules
otherwise stated in this Chapter. No other combination of vehicles, unladen or
with load, shall exceed a length of sixty feet (60') extreme overall dimension.
   C.   A truck tractor semitrailer may draw one trailer or may draw one
vehicle which is special mobile equipment if the extreme length of such
combination does not exceed sixty feet (60'), and a truck in transit may draw
three (3) trucks in transit coupled together by the triple saddlemount method.
Except as otherwise provided, no other combinations of vehicles coupled
together shall consist of more than two (2) vehicles. For the purposes of this
subsection, a tow-dolly which merely serves as substitute wheels for another
legally licensed vehicle will be considered part of the vehicle and not as a
separate vehicle.
Vehicles in combination, whether being operated intrastate or interstate, shall
be operated and towed in compliance with all requirements of Federal Highway
Administration, Title 49, C.F.R., Motor Carrier Safety Regulations, pertaining
to coupling devices and towing methods and all other equipment safety
requirements set forth in said regulations.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter, there is no
overall length limitation on motor vehicles operating in truck tractor-
semitrailer or truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combinations, except that
maxi-cube combinations as defined in this Section, a truck in transit
transporting three (3) trucks coupled together by the triple saddlemount
method, and a combination of vehicles specifically designed to transport motor
vehicles or boats, shall not exceed sixty five feet (65') overall length, and
provided that a stinger steered combination of vehicles specifically designed
to transport motor vehicles or boats shall not exceed seventy five feet (75')
overall length, with such length limitations inclusive of front and rear
bumpers but exclusive of the overhang of the transported vehicles as provided
for in subsection I, upon the National System of Interstate and Defense
Highways or any other highways in the system of State highways that have been
designated Class I highways by the Illinois Department of Transportation or any
street or highway designated by the Village or road district commissioners;
provided that the length of the semitrailer unit, unladen or with load,
operated in a truck tractor-semitrailer combination shall not exceed fifty
three feet (53') and the distance between the kingpin and the rear axle of a
semitrailer longer than forty eight feet (48') shall not exceed forty feet
(40'); and provided that the length of any semitrailer or trailer, unladen or
with load, operated in a truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination shall
not exceed twenty eight feet six inches (28' x 6") inches.
The length limitations described in this subsection D shall be exclusive of
safety and energy conservation devices, such as rear view mirrors, turn
signals, marker lamps, steps and handholds for entry and egress, flexible
fender extensions, bumpers, mudflaps and splash and spray suppressant devices,
load-induced tire bulge, refrigeration units or air compressors and other
devices, which the Department may interpret as necessary for safe and efficient
operation; except that no device excluded under this subsection shall have by
design or use the capability to carry cargo.
Vehicles operating under this subsection D shall have access for a distance of
five (5) highway miles on a street or highway in the system of State highways,
and upon any street or highway designated by the Village or road district
commissioners, to points of loading and unloading and facilities for food,
fuel, repairs and rest. Household goods carriers shall have access to points of
loading and unloading.
For purposes of this Section, a maxi-cube vehicle shall be defined as a
combination of vehicles consisting of a truck-tractor, upon which is mounted a
separable cargo carrying semi-trailer, and a trailing unit which is attached by
a pintle hook or similar connection, with the separable cargo carrying
semitrailer designed so as to be loaded and unloaded through the trailing unit,
except that the entire combination shall not exceed sixty five feet (65') in
length and that neither the semitrailer nor the trailing unit in such
combination shall by itself exceed thirty four feet (34') in length.
   E.   In addition to the designation of streets and highways under subsection
D the Illinois Department of Transportation and the Village may designate other
streets or highways under their respective jurisdictions as streets and
highways upon which a truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination may be
operated provided that the wheelbase between the front axle and rear axle shall
not exceed sixty five feet (65') and the length of any semitrailer or trailer,
unladen or with load, in such a combination shall not exceed twenty eight feet
six inches (28' x 6").
A maxi-cube combination, a truck in transit transporting three (3) trucks
coupled together by the triple saddlemount method, and a combination of
vehicles specifically designed to transport motor vehicles or boats may operate
on said designated streets or highways provided the overall length shall not
exceed sixty five feet (65'), and provided that a stinger steered combination
of vehicles specifically designed to transport motor vehicles or boats shall
not exceed seventy five feet (75') overall length, with such length limitations
inclusive of front and rear bumpers but exclusive of the overhang of the
transported vehicles as provided for in subsection I.
The length limitations described in this subsection E shall be exclusive of
safety and energy conservation devices, such as rear view mirrors, turn
signals, marker lamps, steps and handholds for entry and egress, flexible
fender extensions, bumpers, mudflaps and splash and spray suppressant devices,
load-induced tire bulge, refrigeration units or air compressors and other
devices, which the Department may interpret as necessary for safe and efficient
operation; except that no device excluded under this subsection shall have by
its design or use the capability to carry cargo.
Vehicles operating under this subsection E shall have access for a distance of
five (5) highway miles on a street or highway in the system of State highways,
and upon any street or highway designated by the Village or road district
commissioners, to points of loading and unloading and to facilities for food,
fuel, repairs and rest. Household goods carriers shall have access to points of
loading and unloading.
   F.   On any street or highway in the system of State highways or under the
jurisdiction of the Village that has not been designated by the Illinois
Department of Transportation or the Village under subsection D, or under the
jurisdiction of the Village, the wheelbase between the front axle and the rear
axle in a truck tractor-semitrailer combination shall not exceed fifty five
feet (55'), the length of the semitrailer, unladen or with load, shall not
exceed fifty three feet (53') and the distance between the kingpin and the rear
axle of a semitrailer longer than forty eight feet (48') shall not exceed forty
feet (40'). On any street or highway in the State system of highways, or under
the jurisdiction of the Village, that has not been designated by the Illinois
Department of Transportation or the Village under subsections D or E, no truck
tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination shall exceed a length of sixty feet
(60') extreme overall dimension.
   G.   Length limitations in the preceding subsections of this Section
11-8-6 shall not apply to vehicles operated in the daytime, except on
Saturdays, Sundays or legal holidays, when transporting poles, pipe, machinery
or other objects of a structural nature which cannot readily be dismembered,
nor to vehicles transporting such objects operated on Saturdays, Sundays or
legal holidays or at nighttime by a public utility when required for emergency
repair of public service facilities or properties, but in respect to such night
operation every such vehicle and the load thereon shall be equipped with a
sufficient number of clearance lamps on both sides and marker lamps upon the
extreme ends of any projecting load to clearly mark the dimensions of such
load, provided that the overall length of vehicle and load shall not exceed one
hundred feet (100') and no such object exceeding eighty feet (80') in length
shall be so transported, except by a public utility when required for emergency
repairs, unless a permit has first been obtained as authorized in Section
11-8-20. A combination of vehicles, including tow truck and a disabled vehicle
or disabled combination of vehicles, which exceeds the length restriction
imposed by this Chapter, may be operated on a public highway or street in the
Village upon the following conditions:
      1.   The towing must be:
         a.   Specifically designed as a tow truck having a gross vehicle
weight rating of at least eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds and equipped with
air brakes;
         b.   Equipped with flashing, rotating or oscillating amber lights,
visible for at least five hundred feet (500') in all directions; and
         c.   Capable of utilizing the lighting and braking systems of the
disabled vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      2.   The towing of such vehicles on the streets and highways in the
Village shall not exceed fifty (50) miles from the initial point of wreck or
disablement. Any additional movement of such vehicles shall only occur upon
issuance of authorization for that movement pursuant to the provisions of
Sections
11-8-20 through
11-8-32 of this Chapter.
For the purpose of this subsection, gross vehicle weight rating, or GVWR, shall
mean the value specified by the manufacturer as the loaded weight of the tow
truck. Legal holidays referred to in this Section shall be specified as the day
on which the following traditional holidays are celebrated:
      New Year's Day;
      Memorial Day;
      Independence Day;
      Labor Day;
      Thanksgiving Day; and
      Christmas Day.
   H.   The load upon any vehicle operated alone, or the load upon the front
vehicle of a combination of vehicles, shall not extend more than three feet
(3') beyond the front wheels of such vehicle or the front bumper of such
vehicle if it is equipped with such a bumper.
   I.   The load upon the front vehicle of a combination of vehicles
specifically designed to transport motor vehicles shall not extend more than
three feet (3') beyond the foremost part of the transporting vehicle and the
load upon the rear transporting vehicle shall not extend more than four feet
(4') beyond the rear of the bed or body of such vehicle. This subsection shall
only be applicable upon highways and streets designated in subsections D and E
above.
   J.   Articulated vehicles comprised of two (2) sections, neither of which
exceeds a length of forty two feet (42'), designed for the carrying of more
than ten (10) persons, may be up to sixty feet (60') in length, not including
energy absorbing bumpers, provided that such vehicles are:
      1.   Operated by or for any public body or motor carrier authorized by
law to provide public transportation services; or
      2.   Operated in local public transportation service by any other person
and the municipality in which such service is to be provided approved the
operation of such vehicle.
   K.   Any person who is convicted of violating this Section is subject to the
penalty as provided in subsection B of Section
11-8-13. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-7: PLANKING EDGE OF PAVEMENT:
No tractor, traction engine of other metal tired vehicle, weighing more than
four tons, including the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall drive up
onto, off or over the edge of any paved public highway or street in the
Village, without protecting such edge by putting down solid planks or other
suitable device to prevent such vehicle from breaking off the edges or corners
of such pavement. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-8: SPILLING LOADS:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway or street in this
Village unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
its load from dropping, shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom,
except that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water
or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining
such roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any highway or street in this Village any
vehicle with any load unless said load and any covering thereon is securely
fastened so as to prevent said covering or load from becoming loose, detached,
or in any manner a hazard to other users of the highway or street. (Ord. 90-9-
41)
11-8-9: COVERS OR TARPAULINS REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN LOADS:
No person shall operate or cause to be operated, on a highway or street, any
second division vehicle loaded with dirt, aggregate, garbage, refuse, or other
similar material, when any portion of the load is falling, sifting, blowing,
dropping or in any way escaping from the vehicle.
This Section shall not apply to the operation of highway maintenance vehicles
engaged in removing snow and ice from the roadway, nor to implements of
husbandry or other farm vehicles while transporting agricultural products to or
from the original place of production.
For the purpose of this Section "aggregate" shall include all ores, minerals,
sand, gravel, shale, coal, clay, limestone or any other ore or mineral which
may be mined.
Notwithstanding any other penalty, whenever a police officer determines that
the operator of a vehicle is in violation of this Section, as evidenced by the
issuance of a citation for a violation of Section
11-8-9 of this Code, the police officer shall require the operator to stop the
vehicle in a suitable place and keep such vehicle stationary until the load has
either been reduced, secured or covered with a cover or tarpaulin of sufficient
size to prevent any further violation of this Section. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-10: TOWED VEHICLES:
   A.   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed thereby and the
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') from one
vehicle to the other, except for the connection between any two (2) vehicles
transporting poles, pipes, machinery or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
   B.   Outside a business, residential or suburban district or on any
controlled access highway, no vehicle other than a pole trailer or a
semitrailer which is being towed by a truck tractor and is connected by the
means of a fifth wheel shall be towed on a roadway except by a drawbar and each
such vehicle so towed shall, in addition, be coupled with two (2) safety chains
or cables to the towing vehicle. Such chains or cables shall be of sufficient
size and strength to prevent the towed vehicle parting from the drawing vehicle
in case the drawbar should break or become disengaged.
   C.   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any second division
vehicle owned, operated or controlled by any person who is registered with the
Bureau of Motor Carrier Safety of the Federal Highway Administration and has
complied with Federal safety provisions of the Bureau of Motor Carrier Safety
of the Federal Highway Administration and the rules and regulations of the
Bureau. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-11: WHEEL AND AXLE LOADS AND GROSS WEIGHTS:
   A.   No vehicle or combination of vehicles equipped with pneumatic tires
shall be operated, unladen or with load, upon the highways and streets of this
Village when the gross weight on the road surface through any single axle
thereof exceeds eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds, except when a different
limit is established and posted in accordance with Section
11-8-31 and except any single axle of a two-axle motor vehicle weighing thirty
six thousand (36,000) pounds or less and not a part of a combination of
vehicles, shall not exceed twenty thousand (20,000) pounds. No vehicle or
combination of vehicles equipped with other than pneumatic tires shall be
operated, unladen or with load, upon the highways or streets of this Village
when the gross weight on the road surface through any wheel thereof exceeds
eight hundred (800) pounds per inch width of tire tread or when the gross
weight on the road surface through any axle thereof exceeds sixteen thousand
(16,000) pounds. An axle load shall be defined as the total load transmitted to
the road by all wheels whose centers may be included between two (2) parallel
transverse vertical planes forty inches (40") apart extending across the full
width of the vehicle.
Any two (2) or more single axles whose centers are more than forty inches (40")
and not more than ninety six inches (96") apart, measured to the nearest inch
between extreme axles in the series, shall be defined as tandem axles, and the
gross weight transmitted to the road surface through such series shall not
exceed thirty two thousand (32,000) pounds and no axle of the series shall
exceed the maximum weight permitted under this Section for a single axle.
Provided that on a 4-axle vehicle or on a 5-or-more-axle combination of
vehicles the weight on a series of three (3) axles whose centers are more than
ninety six (96) inches apart, measured between extreme axles in the series,
shall not exceed those allowed on three (3) axles in the table contained in
subsection E of this Section and no axle or tandem axle of the series shall
exceed the maximum weight permitted under this Section for a single or tandem
axle. Provided also that a 3-axle vehicle or 3-axle truck mixer, used
exclusively for the mixing and transportation of concrete, specially equipped
with a road surface engaging mixer trailing fourth axle manufactured prior to
the model year of 1990 and first registered in Illinois prior to January 1,
1991, with a distance greater than seventy two inches (72") but not more than
ninety six inches (96") between any series of two (2) axles may transmit to the
road surface a maximum weight of eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds on each of
these axles. Any such vehicle manufactured in the model year of 1990 or
thereafter or first registered in Illinois after December 31, 1990 may transmit
to the road surface a maximum of thirty two thousand (32,000) pounds through
these two (2) axles and none of the axles shall exceed eighteen thousand
(18,000) pounds.
A truck specially equipped with a self-compactor, or an industrial roll-off
hoist and roll-off container, used exclusively for garbage or refuse
operations, and beginning July 1, 1989 a vehicle used exclusively for the
collection of rendering materials may, however, when laden, transmit upon the
road surface of any highway or street except when part of the National System
of Interstate and Defense Highways, a gross weight upon a single axle not more
than twenty two thousand (22,000) pounds, and upon a tandem axle not more than
forty thousand (40,000) pounds. When unladen, however, such trucks shall comply
with the axle limitations applicable to all other trucks.
   B.   The gross weight of vehicles and combination of vehicles including the
weight of the vehicle or combination and its maximum load shall be subject to
the foregoing limitations and further shall not exceed the following gross
weights dependent upon the number of axles and distance between extreme axles
of the vehicle or combination measured longitudinally to the nearest foot.
VEHICLES HAVING 2 AXLES 36,000 pounds
VEHICLES OR COMBINATIONS HAVING 3 AXLES
With Tandem Axles                 With or Without
Minimum Distance to Maximum Gross Tandem Axles Minimum
Nearest Foot        Weight        Distance to Nearest  Maximum Gross Weight
Between Extreme     (pounds)      Foot Between Extreme (pounds)
Axles                             Axles
(feet)                            (feet)
With Tandem Axles                 With or Without
Minimum Distance to Maximum Gross Tandem Axles Minimum
Nearest Foot        Weight        Distance to Nearest  Maximum Gross Weight
Between Extreme     (pounds)      Foot Between Extreme (pounds)
Axles                             Axles
(feet)                            (feet)
10                  41,000        15                   45,000
11                  42,000        16                   46,000
12                  43,000        17                   47,000
13                  44,000        18                   47,500
14                  44,500        19                   48,000
                                20                   49,000
                                21 or more           50,000
 
VEHICLES OR COMBINATIONS HAVING 4 AXLES
Minimum Distance to  Maximum      Minimum Distance      Maximum
Nearest Foot Between Gross Weight to Nearest Foot       Gross Weight
Extreme Axles        (pounds)     Between Extreme Axles (pounds)
(feet)                            (feet)
Minimum Distance to  Maximum      Minimum Distance      Maximum
Nearest Foot Between Gross Weight to Nearest Foot       Gross Weight
Extreme Axles        (pounds)     Between Extreme Axles (pounds)
(feet)                            (feet)
15                   50,000       26                    57,500
16                   50,500       27                    58,000
17                   51,500       28                    58,500
18                   52,000       29                    59,500
19                   52,500       30                    60,000
20                   53,500       31                    60,500
21                   54,000       32                    61,500
22                   54,500       33                    62,000
23                   55,500       34                    62,500
24                   56,000       35                    63,500
25                   56,500       36 or more            64,000
 
COMBINATIONS HAVING 5 OR MORE AXLES
 
Minimum Distance to  Maximum
Nearest Foot Between Gross Weight
Extreme Axles        (pounds)
(feet)
42 or less           72,000
43                   73,000
44 or more           73,280
 
VEHICLES OPERATING ON CRAWLER TYPE TRACKS 40,000 pounds
TRUCKS EQUIPPED WITH SELFCOMPACTORS OR ROLL-OFF HOISTS AND ROLL-OFF CONTAINERS
FOR GARBAGE OR REFUSE
HAULS ONLY AND, BEGINNING JULY 1, 1989, VEHICLES USED FOR THE COLLECTION OF
RENDERING MATERIALS   on Highway or Street Not Part of National System of
Interstate and Defense Highways
 
with 2 axles 36,000 pounds
with 3 axles 54,000 pounds
 
   C.   Weight limitations shall not apply to vehicles (including loads)
operated by a public utility when transporting equipment required for emergency
repair of public utility facilities or properties or water wells.
A combination of vehicles, including a tow truck and a disabled vehicle or
disabled combination of vehicles, which exceeds the weight restriction imposed
by this Chapter, may be operated on a public highway or street in the Village
provided that neither the disabled vehicle nor any vehicle being towed nor the
tow truck itself shall exceed the weight limitations permitted under this
Chapter. During the towing operation, neither the tow truck nor the vehicle
combination shall exceed the following axle weight limitations:
24,000 pounds--Single rear axle;
44,000 pounds--Tandem rear axle;
Gross weight limits shall not apply to the combination of the tow truck and
vehicles being towed. The tow truck license plate must cover the operating
empty weight of the tow truck only. In addition, the following conditions must
be met:
      1.   The towing vehicle must be:
         a.   Specifically designed as a tow truck having a gross vehicle
weight rating of at least eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds and equipped with
air brakes;
         b.   Equipped with flashing, rotating or oscillating amber lights,
visible for at least five hundred feet (500') in all directions; and
         c.   Capable of utilizing the lighting and braking systems of the
disabled vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      2.   The towing of such vehicles on the highways and streets of the
Village shall not exceed fifteen (15) miles from the initial point of wreck or
disablement. Any additional movement of such vehicles shall only occur upon
issuance of authorization for that movement pursuant to the provisions of
Sections
11-8-20 through
11-8-32 of this Chapter.
Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit a tow-truck under instructions of a
police officer from legally clearing a disabled vehicle, that may be in
violation of weight limitations of this Chapter, from the roadway to the berm
or shoulder of the highway or street.
For the purpose of this subsection, gross vehicle weight rating, or GVWR, shall
mean the value specified by the manufacturer as the loaded weight of the tow
truck.
   D.   No vehicle or combination of vehicles equipped with pneumatic tires
shall be operated, unladen or with load, upon the highways or streets of the
Village in violation of the provisions of any permit issued under the
provisions of Sections
11-8-20 through
11-8-32 of this Chapter.
   E.   Notwithstanding any other provision in this Chapter, except for those
special provisions of subsections A and B of this Section relating to garbage
or refuse operations, those vehicles exempted by subsection C of this Section,
and those vehicles for which the Village issues overweight permits under
authority of Section
11-8-20 of this Code, the weight limitations contained in this subsection E
shall apply to the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways and other
highways in the system of State highways that have been designated by the
Illinois Department of Transportation and all streets and highways in the
Village. No vehicle shall be operated on said streets and highways with a
weight in excess of twenty thousand (20,000) pounds carried on any one axle or
with a tandem axle weight in excess of thirty four thousand (34,000) pounds, or
a gross weight in excess of eighty thousand (80,000) pounds for vehicle
combinations of five axles or more, or a gross weight on a group of two (2) or
more consecutive axles in excess of that weight produced by the application of
the following formula:
      W = 500 times the sum of (LN divided by N-1) + 12N + 36
Where "W" equals overall gross weight on any group of two (2) or more
consecutive axles to the nearest five hundred (500) pounds; "L" equals the
distance measured to the nearest foot between extremes of any group of two (2)
or more consecutive axles; and "N" equals the number of axles in the group
under consideration, except that two (2) consecutive sets of tandem axles is 1)
thirty six feet (36') or more, or 2) thirty feet (30') or more for a vehicle
combination which includes either a tank trailer, a dump trailer, or a trailer
which is hauling an ocean transport container before September 1, 1989.
Provided also that a 3-axle vehicle manufactured prior to the model year of
1990, and first registered in Illinois prior to January 1, 1991, with a
distance greater than seventy two inches (72") but not more than ninety six
inches (96") between the two (2) rear axles may transmit to the road surface a
maximum weight of eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds on each of the two (2) rear
axles. Any such vehicle manufactured in the model year of 1990 or thereafter or
first registered in Illinois after December 31, 1990, may transmit to the road
surface a maximum of thirty four thousand (34,000) pounds through the two (2)
rear axles and neither of the rear axles shall exceed twenty thousand (20,000)
pounds. For purposes of this subsection E, tandem axles shall be defined as any
two (2) or more single axles whose centers are more than forty inches (40") and
not more than ninety six inches (96") apart, measured to the nearest inch
between extreme axles in the series.
The above formula when expressed in tabular form results in allowable loads as
follows:
 2 axles 3 axles 4 axles 5 axles 6 axles
   2 axles 3 axles 4 axles 5 axles 6 axles
4  34,000                        
5  34,000                        
6  34,000                        
7  34,000                        
8  34,000  42,000                 
9  39,000  42,500                 
10 40,000  43,500                 
11        44,000                 
12        45,000  50,000          
13        45,500  50,500          
14        46,500  51,500          
15        47,000  52,000          
16        48,000  52,500  58,000   
17        48,500  53,500  58,500   
18        49,500  54,000  59,000   
19        50,000  54,500  60,000   
20        51,000  55,500  60,500  66,000
21        51,500  56,000  61,000  66,500
22        52,500  56,500  61,500  67,000
23        53,000  57,500  62,500  68,000
24        54,000  58,000  63,000  68,500
25        54,500  58,500  63,500  69,000
26        55,500  59,500  64,000  69,500
27        56,000  60,000  65,000  70,000
28        57,000  60,500  65,500  71,000
29        57,500  61,500  66,000  71,500
30        58,500  62,000  66,500  72,000
31        59,000  62,500  67,500  72,500
32        60,000  63,500  68,000  73,000
33               64,000  68,500  74,000
34               64,500  69,000  74,500
35               65,500  70,000  75,000
36               66,000  70,500  75,500
37               66,500  71,000  76,000
38               67,500  72,000  77,000
39               68,000  72,500  77,500
40               68,500  73,000  78,000
41               69,500  73,500  78,500
42               70,000  74,000  79,000
43               70,500  75,000  80,000
44               71,500  75,500   
45               72,000  76,000   
46               72,500  76,500   
47               73,500  77,500   
48               74,000  78,000   
49               74,500  78,500   
50               75,500  79,000   
51               76,000  80,000   
52               76,500          
53               77,500          
54               78,000          
55               78,500          
56               79,500          
57               80,000          
 
In applying the above formula to a vehicle having more than four (4) axles
which is not a combination, only four (4) axles shall be considered in
determining the maximum gross weight, and for a combination of vehicles having
more than six (6) axles, only (6) axles shall be considered in determining the
maximum gross weight.
Notwithstanding the above table, two (2) consecutive sets of tandem axles may
carry a gross weight of thirty four thousand (34,000) pounds each if the
overall distance between the first and last axles of such consecutive sets of
tandem axles is 1) thirty six feet (36') or more, or 2) thirty feet (30') or
more for a vehicle combination which includes either a tank trailer, a dump
trailer, or a trailer which is hauling an ocean transport container before
September 1, 1989.
Combinations of vehicles, which include a semitrailer manufactured prior to the
model year of 1990, and first registered in Illinois prior to January 1, 1991,
having five (5) axles with a distance of forty two feet (42') or less between
extreme axles shall be limited to the weights prescribed in subsections A and B
of this Section and not subject to the bridge formula on the National System of
Interstate and Defense Highways and other highways in the system of State
highways designated by the Illinois Department of Transportation or streets or
highways designated by the Village. For all such combinations of vehicles,
which include a semitrailer manufactured subsequent to the effective date of
the amendatory Act of 1986 (amending Illinois Revised Statute, chapter 951/2,
paragraph 15-111) the overall distance between the first and last axles of the
two (2) sets of tandems must be eighteen feet six inches (18' x 6") or more.
All such combinations of vehicles which include a semitrailer manufactured in
the model year of 1990 or thereafter or first registered in Illinois after
December 31, 1990, or which has had its cargo container replaced in its
entirety after December 31, 1990, are limited to the gross weight allowed by
the above formula.
Vehicles operating under this subsection E shall have access for a distance of
five (5) highway miles on a street or highway included in the system of State
highways and upon any street or highway designated by the Village or road
district commissioners to points of loading and unloading and to facilities for
food, fuel, repairs and rest.
   F.   No person shall operate a vehicle or combination of vehicles over a
bridge or other elevated structure constituting part of a highway or street
with a gross weight which is greater than the maximum weight permitted by the
Illinois Department of Transportation or the Village, when such structure is
sign posted as provided in this Section.
   G.   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of subsection F
of this Section, proof of the determination of the maximum allowable weight by
the Illinois Department of Transportation or the Village and the existence of
the signs, constitutes conclusive evidence of the maximum weight which can be
maintained with safety to such bridge or structure. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-12: OFFICERS TO WEIGH VEHICLES AND REQUIRE REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOADS:
   A.   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and load is unlawful shall require the driver to stop and submit to a
weighing of the same either by means of a portable or stationary scales. If
such scales are not available at the place where such vehicle is stopped, the
police officer shall require that such vehicle be driven to the nearest
available scale that has been tested and approved by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture.
   B.   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and the load, determines
that the weight is unlawful, such officer shall require the driver to stop the
vehicle in a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load
is removed as may be necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit
permitted under this Chapter, or to the limit permitted under the terms of a
permit, issued pursuant to Sections
11-8-20 through
11-8-32 of this Chapter and shall forthwith arrest the driver or owner. All
material so unloaded shall be cared for by the owner or operator of the vehicle
at the risk of such owner or operator.
   C.   Whenever any axle load of a vehicle exceeds the axle or tandem axle
weight limits permitted by subsection
11-8-11A or
11-8-11E by two thousand (2000) pounds or less, the owner or operator of the
vehicle must shift or remove the excess so as to comply with subsection
11-8-11A or
11-8-11E. No overweight arrest ticket shall be issued to the owner or operator
of the vehicle by any officer if the gross weight is shifted or removed as
required by this subsection.
   D.   Whenever the gross weight of a vehicle with a registered gross weight
of seventy three thousand two hundred eighty (73,280) pounds or less exceeds
the weight limits of subsection
11-8-11B or
11-8-11E of this Chapter by two thousand (2000) pounds or less, the owner or
operator of the vehicle must remove the excess. Whenever the gross weight of a
vehicle with a registered gross weight of seventy three thousand two hundred
eighty one (73,281) pounds or more exceeds the weight limits of subsection
11-8-11B or
11-8-11E by one thousand (1,000) pounds or less, the owner or operator of the
vehicle must remove the excess. In either case no arrest ticket for any
overweight violation of this Chapter shall be issued to the owner or operator
of the vehicle by any officer if the excess weight is removed as required by
this subsection.
   E.   Whenever the gross weight of a vehicle exceeds the registration weight
limits established under article VIII of chapter 3 of Illinois Revised Statute,
chapter 951/2, by two thousand one (2,001) pounds or more, the driver or owner,
in addition to any other violation or penalty, shall be fined in accordance to
the schedule enumerated in Section
11-8-13 of this Chapter.
   F.   Whenever an axle load of a vehicle exceeds axle weight limits allowed
by the provisions of a permit an arrest ticket shall be issued, but the owner
or operator of such vehicle may shift the load so as to comply with the
provisions of the permit. Where such shifting of a load to comply with the
permit is accomplished, the owner or operator of the vehicle may then proceed.
   G.   Any driver of a vehicle who refuses to stop and submit his vehicle and
load to weighing after being directed to do so by an officer or removes or
causes the removal of the load or part of it prior to weighing is guilty of a
business offense and shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500)
nor more than two thousand dollars ($2,000). (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-13: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES:
   A.   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of
Section
11-8-11, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty of such
violation and either the owner or the driver of such vehicle may be prosecuted
for such violation. Any person, convicted of any violation of Section
11-8-11 including, but not limited to, a maximum axle or gross limit specified
on a regulatory sign posted in accordance with subsection
11-8-11F, shall be fined according to the following schedule:
Up to and including      2000 pounds = $50
                         overweight
from 2001 through        2500 pounds = the fine is $135
                         overweight
from 2501 through        3000 pounds = the fine is $165
                         overweight
from 3001 through        3500 pounds = the fine is $260
                         overweight
from 3501 through        4000 pounds = the fine is $300
                         overweight
from 4001 through        4500 pounds = the fine is $425
                         overweight
from 4501 through        5000 pounds = the fine is $475
                         overweight
                                       the fine shall be computed by assessing
                                       $750 for the first 5000 pounds
from 5001 or more pounds overweight  = overweight and $75 for each additional
                                       increment of 500 pounds overweight or
                                       fraction thereof.
 
In addition any person, firm or corporation convicted of four (4) or more
violations of Section
11-8-11 within any twelve (12) month period shall be fined an additional amount
of two thousand five hundred ($2,500) for the fourth and each subsequent
conviction within the twelve (12) month period. Provided, however, that with
regard to a firm or corporation, a fourth or subsequent conviction shall mean a
fourth or subsequent conviction attributable to any one employee-driver.
   B.   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of
Sections
11-8-2,
11-8-3 or
11-8-6, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty of such
violation and either may be prosecuted for such violation. Any person,
convicted of any violation of Sections
11-8-2,
11-8-3 or
11-8-6 shall be fined for the first or second conviction an amount equal to not
less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500), and
for the third and subsequent convictions by the same person, within a period of
one year after the date of the first offense, not less than five hundred
dollars ($500) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000). (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-14: VIOLATIONS, SENTENCE OF PERMIT MOVES:
Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of a permit
issued under the provisions of Sections
11-8-20 through
11-8-32 of this Chapter by operating under a fraudulent permit or under a
permit not specifically covering the move, the owner or driver of such vehicle
shall be deemed guilty of a business offense and either the owner or the driver
of such vehicle may be prosecuted for such violation. When any person, is
convicted of such violation, the permit shall be null and void and such person,
shall be fined in an amount not less than ten cents ($0.10) per pound for each
pound the gross weight of the vehicle exceeds the gross weight of such vehicles
allowable under Section
11-8-11 of this Chapter. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-15: VIOLATIONS, SENTENCE OF PERMIT MOVES EXCEEDING AXLE WEIGHTS:
Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of a permit
issued under the provisions of Section
11-8-20 through
11-8-32 of this Chapter by operating with axle weights in excess of those
authorized in such permit, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed
guilty of a business offense and either the owner or the driver of such vehicle
may be prosecuted for such violation. Any person, convicted of such violation
shall be fined in an amount not less than two cents ($0.02) nor more than five
cents ($0.05) per pound for each pound of excess weight on such axle or tandem
axle in excess of the weight authorized in the permit when the excess is one
thousand (1,000) pounds or less; not less than five cents ($0.05) nor more than
ten cents ($0.10) per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess
exceeds one thousand (1,000) pounds and is two thousand (2,000) pounds or less;
not less than ten cents ($0.10) nor more than fifteen cents ($0.15) per pound
for each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds two thousand (2,000)
pounds and is three thousand (3,000) pounds or less; and not less than fifteen
cents ($0.15) nor more than twenty cents ($0.20) per pound for each pound of
excess weight when the excess exceeds three thousand (3,000) pounds.
Penalties for violation of this Section shall be in addition to any penalties
imposed for violation of subsection 11-8-20J of this Chapter. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-16: VIOLATIONS, SENTENCE OF PERMIT MOVES EXCEEDING GROSS WEIGHT:
Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of a permit
issued under the provisions of Sections
11-8-20 through
11-8-32 of this Chapter by operating with the gross weight in excess of that
authorized in such permit, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed
guilty of a business offense and either the owner or the driver of such vehicle
may be prosecuted for such violation. Any person, convicted of such violation
shall be fined in an amount not less than two cents ($0.02) nor more than five
cents ($0.05) per pound for each pound of excess weight in excess of the gross
weight authorized in the permit when the excess is one thousand (1,000) pounds
or less; not less than four cents ($0.04) nor more than seven cents ($0.07) per
pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds one thousand
(1,000) pounds and is two thousand (2,000) pounds or less; not less than seven
cents ($0.07) nor more than ten cents ($0.10) per pound for each pound of
excess weight when the excess exceeds two thousand (2,000) pounds and is three
thousand (3,000) pounds or less; not less than ten cents ($0.10) nor more than
fifteen cents ($0.15) per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess
exceeds three thousand (3,000) pounds and is four thousand (4,000) pounds or
less; not less than fifteen cents ($0.15) nor more than twenty cents ($0.20)
per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds four thousand
(4,000) pounds and is five thousand (5,000) pounds or less; and not less than
seventeen cents ($0.17) nor more than twenty five cents ($0.25) per pound for
each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds five thousand (5,000)
pounds.
Penalties for violations of this Section shall be in addition to any penalties
imposed for violation of subsection 11-8-20J of this Chapter. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-17: PUSHING OF DISABLED VEHICLES:
It is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle to push any other
vehicle on or along any street or highway in this Village, except in an extreme
emergency and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther than is reasonably
necessary to remove it from the roadway or from the immediate hazard that
exists. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-18: VEHICLES EXCEEDING PRESCRIBED WEIGHT LIMITS, PREVENTING USE OF STREETS
AND HIGHWAYS BY:
The Village Police Department is authorized to institute and maintain a program
designed to prevent the use of public streets and highways by vehicles which
exceed the maximum weights allowed by this Chapter or which exceeds the maximum
weights allowed as evidenced by the license plates attached to such vehicle.
(Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-19: ENFORCEMENT:
Such program shall make provision for an intensive campaign by the Village
Police Department to apprehend any violators of the acts above mentioned, and
at all times to maintain a vigilant watch for possible violators of such acts.
(Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-20: PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT:
   A.   The Village, with respect to streets and highways under its
jurisdiction may, in its discretion, upon application and good cause being
shown therefor, issue a special permit authorizing the applicant to operate or
move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or
load exceeding the maximum specified in this Chapter or otherwise not in
conformity with this Chapter upon any street or highway under its jurisdiction
and for the maintenance of which the Village is responsible. Applications and
permits other than those in written or printed form may only be accepted from
and issued to the company or individual making the movement. Except for an
application to move directly across a street or highway the application shall
show that the load to be moved by such vehicle or combination of vehicles
cannot reasonably be dismantled or disassembled.
   B.   The application for any such permit shall: 1) state whether such permit
is requested for a single trip or for limited continuous operation; 2) state if
the applicant is an authorized carrier under the Illinois Motor Carrier of
Property Law, if so, his certificate, registration or permit number issued by
the Illinois Commerce Commission; 3) specifically describe and identify the
vehicle or vehicles and load to be operated or moved; 4) state the routing
requested including the points of origin and destination; and 5) state if the
vehicles or loads are being transported for hire. No permits for the movement
of a vehicle or load for hire shall be issued to any applicant who is required
under the Illinois Motor Carrier of Property Law to have a certificate,
registration or permit and does not have such certificate, registration or
permit.
   C.   The Police Department when not inconsistent with traffic safety is
authorized to issue or withhold such permit at its discretion; or, if such
permit is issued at its discretion to prescribe the route or routes to be
traveled, to limit the number of trips, to establish seasonal or other time
limitations within which the vehicles described may be operated on the highways
indicated, or otherwise to limit or prescribe conditions of operations of such
vehicle or vehicles, when necessary to assure against undue damage to the road
foundations, surfaces or structures, and may require such undertaking or other
security as may be deemed necessary to compensate for any injury to any roadway
or road structure. The Police Department shall maintain a daily record of each
permit issued along with the fee and the stipulated dimensions, weights,
conditions and restrictions authorized and this record shall be presumed
correct in any case of questions or dispute. The Police Department shall
install an automatic device for recording applications received and permits
issued by telephone. In making application by telephone, the Police Department
and applicant waive all objections to the recording of the conversation.
   D.   The Police Department shall, upon application in writing from any local
authority, issue a semi-annual permit authorizing the local authority to move
oversize highway construction, transportation, utility and maintenance
equipment over roads under the jurisdiction of the Village. The permit shall be
applicable only to equipment and vehicles owned by or registered in the name of
the local authority, and no fee shall be charged for the issuance of such
permits.
   E.   As an exception to subsection A, the Village with respect to streets
and highways under its jurisdiction, in its discretion and upon application in
writing may issue a special permit for limited continuous operation,
authorizing the applicant to move loads of sweet corn, soybeans, corn, wheat,
milo, other small grains and ensilage during the harvest season only on a two
(2) axle single vehicle registered by the Secretary of State with axle loads
not to exceed thirty five percent (35%) above those provided in section 15-111.
1  Permits may be issued for a period not to exceed forty (40) days and moves
may be made of a distance not to exceed twenty five (25) miles from a field to
a specified processing plant over any highway except the National System of
Interstate and Defense Highways. All such vehicles shall be operated in the
daytime except when weather or crop conditions require emergency operation at
night, but with respect to such night operation, every such vehicle with load
shall be equipped with flashing amber lights as specified under Illinois
Revised Statute, chapter 951/2, section 12-215.
   F.   The form and content of the permit shall be determined by the Police
Department. Every permit shall be carried in the vehicle or combination of
vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection by any police
officer or authorized agent of the Village and no person shall violate any of
the terms or conditions of such special permit. Violation of the terms and
conditions of the permit shall not be deemed a revocation of the permit. No
rule or regulation, nor anything herein shall be construed to authorize any
police officer, or authorized agent of the Village to remove the permit from
the possession of the permittee. However, upon arrest for a violation of
permit, the permittee, or his agent, must produce the permit at any court
hearing concerning the alleged violation of permit.
If the permit designates and includes a routing to a certified scale, the
permittee, while enroute to the designated scale, shall be deemed in compliance
with the weight provisions of the permit provided the axle or gross weights do
not exceed any of the permitted limits by more than the following amounts:
 
Single Axle 2000 pounds
Tandem Axle 3000 pounds
Gross       5000 pounds
 
   G.   The Police Department is authorized to adopt, amend, and to make
available to interested persons a policy concerning reasonable rules,
limitations and conditions or provisions of operation upon streets and highways
under the Village's jurisdiction in addition to those contained in this Section
for the movement by special permit of vehicles, combinations, or loads which
cannot reasonably be dismantled or disassembled. All rules, limitations and
conditions or provisions adopted in the policy shall have due regard for the
safety of the traveling public and the protection of the highway and street
system. The requirements of the policy for flagmen and escort vehicles shall be
the same for all moves of comparable size and weight. When escort vehicles are
required, they shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   All operators shall be eighteen (18) years of age or over and
properly licensed to operate the vehicle.
      2.   Vehicles escorting oversized loads more than twelve feet (12') wide
must be equipped with a rotating or flashing amber light mounted on top as
specified under Illinois Revised Statute chapter 95, paragraph 12-215.
Applicants shall be required to furnish a bond in the sum of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) to the Village conditioned so as to save the
Village, its officers, agents and employees harmless from any claim, loss or
damage that may result from the granting of such permit or that may arise from
or on account of any work done thereunder, and further conditioned that the
grantee shall restore at his own cost, to a condition satisfactory to the Board
of Trustees, any pavement, subway, tunnel, sewer, pipe, conduit, or other
public utility that may be injured by reason of the transportation of such
article under such permit. In addition, the applicant shall carry general
liability insurance in an amount of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) and shall tender to the Village a certificate of insurance
evidencing same. Police vehicles may be required for escort under circumstances
as required by rules and regulations of the Police Department.
   H.   Violation of any rule, limitation or condition or provision of any
permit issued in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall not
render the entire permit null and void but the violator shall be deemed guilty
of exceeding any size, weight or load limitations in excess of those authorized
by the permit.
   I.   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be operated or movement made
under a fraudulent permit and said permit shall be void. The Police Department
shall not issue permits to the person, convicted of such violation for a period
of one year after the date of conviction. Penalties for violations of this
Section shall be in addition to any penalties imposed for violation of other
Sections of this Chapter.
   J.   Whenever any vehicle is operated or movement made in violation of a
permit issued in accordance with this Section, the person to whom such permit
was granted, or the driver of such vehicle, is guilty of such violation and
either, but not both, persons may be prosecuted for such violation as stated in
this subsection J. Any person, convicted of such violation shall be guilty of a
petty offense and shall be fined for the first offense, not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and, for the
second offense by the same person, within a period of one year, not less than
two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00)
and, for the third offense by the same person, within a period of one year
after the date of the first offense, not less than three hundred dollars
($300.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and the Police
Department shall not issue permits to the person convicted of a third offense
during a period of one year after the date of conviction for such third
offense.
Penalties for violations of this Section shall be in addition to any penalties
imposed for violation of other Sections of this Chapter. (Ord. 90-9-41)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. ch. 95 /2.
11-8-21: FEES FOR SPECIAL PERMITS:
The Police Department with respect to highways and streets under the Village's
jurisdiction shall collect a fee from the applicant for the issuance of a
permit to operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles or load as
authorized in Section
11-8-20. The charge for each permit shall consist of:
   A.   A service charge for special handling of a permit when requested by an
applicant;
   B.   Fees for any dimension, axle weight or gross weight in excess of the
maximum size or weight specified in this Chapter; and
   C.   Additional fees for special investigation or special police escort when
required.
With respect to overweight fees, the charge shall be sufficient to compensate
in part for the cost of the extra wear and tear on the mileage of streets or
highways over which the load is to be moved. With respect to over-dimension
permits, the fee shall be sufficient to compensate in part for the special
privilege of transporting oversize vehicle or vehicle combination and load and
to compensate in part for the economic loss of operators of vehicles in regular
operation due to inconvenience occasioned by the oversize movements.
Fees to be paid by the applicant are to be at the rates specified in this
Chapter. In determining the fees in section 15-306 and paragraph (f) of section
15-307, 1  all weights shall be to the next highest one thousand (1,000) pounds
and all distances shall be determined from the Illinois Official Highway Map or
official Village maps.
For repeated moves of like objects which cannot be dismantled or disassembled
and which are monolithically structured for permanent use in the transported
form, the fees specified in Sections
11-8-24,
11-8-25 and
11-8-26 for other than the first move shall be reduced by four dollars ($4.00)
provided the objects are to be moved from the same origin to the same
destination, the number of trips will not be less than five (5), the trips will
be completed within thirty (30) days, and all applications are submitted at one
time. Round trip permits shall be the same as a single trip permit except the
fee shall be computed based upon the total distance traveled, and shall be for
the same vehicle, vehicle combination or like load traveling both directions
over the same route, provided a description including make and model of the
equipment being transported is furnished to the Police Department. Limited
continuous operation permits are to be valid for a period of ninety (90) days,
and shall be for the same vehicle, vehicle combination or like load. (Ord. 90-
9-41)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. ch. 95 /2.
11-8-22: TRANSMISSION FEES:
When special transmission of permits is requested by an applicant, a service
charge in an amount sufficient to defray the cost shall be charged. (Ord. 90-9-
41)
11-8-23: FEES FOR HOUSE TRAILER COMBINATIONS:
Fees for special permits to move a house trailer or modular home section in
combination with a towing vehicle shall be paid by the applicant to the Police
Department at the following rates:
 
                                                       Single Limited
                                                       Trip   Continuous
                                                              Operation
A. Maximum overall width of 10 feet or less; maximum
overall height of 14 feet 6 inches or less; or maximum $12.00 $100.00
overall length, including the towing vehicle, of 70
feet or less:
B. Maximum overall width of 12 feet or less; maximum
overall height of 14 feet 6 inches or less; or maximum $15.00 $150.00
overall length, including the towing vehicle, of of 85
feet or less:
C. Maximum overall width of 14 feet or less; maximum
overall overall height of 15 feet or less; or maximum  $25.00 Single Trip only
overall length, including the towing vehicle, of 85
feet of less:
D. Maximum overall width of 14 feet 4 inches or less,
maximum overall height of 15 feet or less; or maximum  $30.00 Single Trip only
overall length, including the towing vehicle, of 95
feet or less:
 
(Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-24: FEES FOR LEGAL WEIGHT BUT OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES, COMBINATIONS, AND
LOADS, OTHER THAN HOUSE TRAILER COMBINATIONS:
Fees for special permits to move overdimension vehicles, combinations, and
loads, other than house trailer combinations, shall be paid by the applicant to
the Police Department at the following rates:
 
                                                        Single Limited
                                                        Trip   Continuous
                                                               Operation
A. Overall width of 10 feet or less; overall height of  $12.00 $100.00
14 feet 6 inches or overall length of 70 feet or less
B. Overall width of 12 feet or less; overall height of
14 feet 6 inches or less; and overall length of 85 feet $15.00 $150.00
or less
C. Overall width of 14 feet or less, overall height of  $25.00 Single Trip only
15 feet or less,and overall length of 100 feet of less;
D. Overall width of 18 feet or less, (authorized only
under special conditions and for limited distance),     $30.00 Single Trip only
overall height of 16 feet or less; and overall length
of 120 feet or less
E. Overall width of more than 18 feet (authorized only
under special conditions and for limited distances),    $50.00 Single Trip only
overall height more than 16 feet, and overall length
more than 120 feet
 
Permits issued under this Section shall be for a vehicle, or vehicle
combination and load not exceeding legal weights; and, in the case of the
limited continuous operation, shall be for the same vehicle, vehicle
combination or like load.
Escort requirements shall be as prescribed in the Police Department's Rules and
Regulations. Fees for the Police vehicle escort, when required, shall be in
addition to the permit fees. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-25: FEES FOR OVERWEIGHTAXLE LOADS:
Fees for special permits to move legal gross weight vehicles, combinations of
vehicles and loads with overweight-axle loads shall be paid by the applicant to
the Police Department as follows:
For each overweight single axle or tandem axle group, the flat rate fees herein
scheduled for increments of forty five (45) miles or fraction thereof including
issuance fee predicated upon an eighteen thousand (18,000) pound single axle
equivalency.
Single trip permits only shall be issued:
18,000 Pound Single Axle Equivalency Fees
 
Axle Weight                      2-Axle        3-Axle
in excess          Single Axle     Tandem    Tandem
of legal
1-6000 lbs.        $5            $5            $5
6001-11,000 lbs.   8             7             6
11,001-17,000 lbs. not permitted 8             7
17,001-22,000 lbs. not permitted not permitted 9
22,001-29,000 lbs. not permitted not permitted 11
 
(Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-26: FEES FOR OVERWEIGHT-GROSS LOADS:
Fees for special permits to move vehicles, combinations of vehicles and loads
with overweight-gross loads shall be paid at the flat rate fees established in
this Section for weights in excess of legal gross weights, by the applicant to
the Police Department. Single trip permits only shall be issued.
   A.   With respect to fees for overweight-gross loads listed in this Section,
and for overweight-axle loads listed in section 15-306,1 one fee only shall be
charged, whichever is the greater, but not for both.
   B.   In lieu of the fees stated in this Section and Section
11-8-24, with respect to combinations of vehicles consisting of a 3-axle truck
tractor with a tandem axle composed of two (2) consecutive axles drawing a
semitrailer, or other vehicle approved by the Police Department, equipped with
a tandem axle composed of three (3) consecutive axles, weighing over seventy
three thousand two hundred eighty (73,280) pounds but not more than eighty
eight thousand (88,000) pounds gross weight, the fees shall be at the following
rates:
      Single Trip Rate: $10.00
      For such combinations weighing over eighty eight thousand (88,000) pounds
but not more than one hundred thousand (100,000) pounds gross weight, the fees
shall be at the following rates:
      Single Trip Rate: $15.00
      For such combination weighing over one hundred thousand (100,000) pounds
but not more than one hundred ten thousand (110,000) pounds gross weight, the
fees shall be at the following rates:
      Single Trip Rate: $20.00
      For such combinations weighing over one hundred ten thousand (110,000)
pounds but not more than one hundred twenty thousand (120,000) pounds gross
weight, the fees shall be at the following rates:
      Single Trip Rate: $30.00
      Payment of overweight fees for the above combinations also shall include
fees for overwidth dimensions of four feet (4') or less, overheight and
overlength. Any overwidth in excess of four feet (4') shall be charged an
additional fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00).
   C.   In lieu of the fees stated in this Section and Section
11-8-24 of this Chapter, with respect to combinations of vehicles consisting of
a 3-axle truck tractor with a tandem axle composed of two (2) consecutive axles
drawing a semitrailer, or other vehicle approved by the Department, equipped
with a tandem axle composed of two (2) consecutive axles, weighing over seventy
three thousand two hundred eighty (73,280) pounds but not more than eighty
eight thousand (88,000) pounds gross weight, the fees shall be at the following
rates:
      Single Trip Rate: $20.00
      For such combination weighing over eighty eight thousand (88,000) pounds
but not more than on hundred thousand (100,000) pounds gross weight, the fees
shall be at the following rates:
      Single Trip Rate: $30.00
      Payment of overweight fees for the above combinations also shall include
fees for overwidth dimension of four feet (4') or less, overheight and
overlength. Any overwidth in excess of four feet (4') shall be charged an
additional overwidth fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00).
   D.   In lieu of the fees stated in this Section and in Section
11-8-25 of this Chapter, with respect to a three (3) (or more) axle mobile
crane or water well-drilling vehicle consisting of a single axle and a tandem
axle or two (2) tandem axle groups composed of two (2) consecutive axles each,
with a distance of extreme axles not less than eighteen feet (18'), weighing
not more than sixty thousand (60,000) pounds gross with no single axle weighing
more than twenty one thousand (21,000) pounds, or any tandem axle group to
exceed forty thousand (40,000) pounds, the fees shall be at the following
rates:
      Single Trip Rate: $12.50
      For such vehicles weighing over sixty thousand (60,000) pounds but not
more than sixty eight thousand (68,000) pounds with no single axle weighing
more than twenty one (21,000) pounds and no tandem axle group exceeding forty
eight thousand (48,000) pounds, the fees shall be at the following rates:
      Single Trip Rate: $20.00
      Payment of overweight fees for the above vehicle shall include overwidth
dimension of four feet (4') or less, overheight and overlength. Any overwidth
in excess of four feet (4') shall be charged an additional overwidth fee of
fifteen dollars ($15.00).
   E.   In lieu of the fees stated in this Section and in Section
11-8-25 of this Chapter, with respect to a four (4) (or more) axle mobile crane
or water well drilling vehicle consisting of two (2) sets of tandem axles
composed of two (2) or more consecutive axles each with a distance between
extreme axles of not less than twenty three feet (23') weighing not more than
seventy two thousand (72,000) pounds with axle weights on one set of tandem
axles not more than thirty four thousand (34,000) pounds, and weight in the
other set of tandem axles not to exceed forty thousand (40,000) pounds, the
fees shall be at the following rates:
      Single Trip Rate: $15.00
      For such vehicles weighing over seventy two thousand (72,000) pounds but
not more than seventy six thousand (76,000) pounds with axle weights on either
set of tandem axles not more than forty four thousand (44,000) pounds, the fees
shall be at the following rates:
      Single Trip Rate: $20.00
      Payment of overweight fees for the above vehicle shall include overwidth
dimension of four feet (4') or less, overheight and overlength. Any overwidth
in excess of four feet (4') shall be charged an additional fee of fifteen
dollars ($15.00).
   F.   In lieu of fees stated in this Section and in Section
11-8-25 of this Chapter, with respect to a two axle mobile crane or water well-
drilling vehicle consisting of two (2) single axles weighing not more than
forty eight thousand (48,000) pounds with no single axle weighing more than
twenty five thousand (25,000) pounds, the fees shall be at the following rates:
      Single Trip Rate: $15.00
      For such vehicles weighing over forty eight thousand (48,000) pounds but
not more than fifty four thousand (54,000) pounds with no single axle weighing
more than twenty eight thousand (28,000) pounds, the fees shall be at the
following rates:
      Single Trip Rate: $20.00
      Payment of overweight fees for the above vehicle shall include overwidth
dimension of four feet (4') or less, overheight and overlength. Any overwidth
in excess of four feet (4') shall be charged an additional overwidth fee of
fifteen dollars ($15.00).
   G.   Fees for special permits to move vehicles, combinations of vehicles,
and loads with overweight gross loads not included in the fee categories shall
be paid by the applicant to the Police Department at the rate of fifty dollars
($50.00) plus 3.5 cents per ton-mile in excess of legal weight. Single trip
permits only shall be issued for such movements.
With respect to fees for overweight gross loads not included in the schedules
specified in subsections A through E of this Section and for overweight axle
loads listed in Section
11-8-25 one fee only shall be charged, whichever is the greater, but not both.
An additional fee in accordance with the schedule set forth in Section
11-8-24 shall be charged for each overdimension. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-27: FEES FOR POLICE ESCORT:
When Village Police escorts are required by the Police Department for the
safety of the motoring public, the following fees shall be paid by the
applicant to the Police Department: Forty dollars ($40.00) per hour per vehicle
based upon pre-estimated time of movement to be agreed upon between Police
Department and applicant. Minimum fee eighty dollars ($80.00) per vehicle.
(Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-28: SUPPLEMENTAL PERMIT FEE:
The Police Department shall collect a fee of five dollars ($5.00) and other
applicable fees to cover the cost of processing an application for supplemental
special permit. This fee shall be charged for each supplemental special permit
issued. In addition, if the supplemental permit provides for an increase in
size or weight or both over that specified in the original special permit,
additional fees shall be charged as provided in Sections
11-8-22 through
11-8-27 as applicable, to correct for the increase. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-29: PAYMENT OF FEES:
The Police Department shall prescribe the time and method of payment of all
appropriate fees authorized by Sections
11-8-21 through
11-8-28.
The Police Department may, at its discretion, establish credit accounts with
billing to be made at intervals not exceeding one month.
Failure to pay invoices in full within a period of thirty (30) days after the
billing date shall be sufficient cause for the Police Department to withhold
issuance of any further permits or credit to the individual, company, or
subsidiary firm.
The Police Department is authorized to charge a service fee of three dollars
($3.00) for a check returned for any reason. All money received by the Police
Department under the provisions of this Section shall be deposited in the Road
Fund. No refund shall be made to applicant following issuance of a permit if
move is not completed. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-30: EXEMPTIONS TO REQUIREMENT OF FEES:
   A.   The requirements as to fees authorized by Sections
11-8-21 through
11-8-29 shall not apply to the owner of the vehicle or vehicle combination if
owned by the United States, this State, or any political subdivision of this
State, or any municipality therein.
   B.   The provisions of Sections
11-8-21 through
11-8-29 requiring fees for a permit shall not modify, alter or in any manner
affect either the provisions of Section
11-8-20, or the policy of the Police Department adopted for the administration
of this Chapter. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-31: AUTHORITY TO RESTRICT USE OF STREETS:
   A.   The Board of Trustees, with respect to highways and streets under its
jurisdiction, may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the operation of vehicles
upon any such street or impose restrictions as to the weight of vehicles to be
operated upon any such street, for a total period of not to exceed ninety (90)
days in any one calendar year, whenever any said street by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic conditions will be seriously
damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited or the
permissible weights thereof reduced.
   B.   The Village shall erect or cause to be erected and maintained signs
designating the provision of the ordinance or resolution at each end of that
portion of any street affected thereby, and the ordinance or resolution shall
not be effective unless and until such signs are erected and maintained.
   C.   The Village, with respect to streets under its jurisdiction, may also,
by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the operation of trucks or other
commercial vehicles, or may impose limitations as to the weight thereof, on
designated streets, which prohibition and limitations shall be designated by
appropriate signs placed on such streets. (Ord. 90-9-41)
11-8-32: LIABILITY IF STREET, HIGHWAY OR STRUCTURE DAMAGED:
   A.   Any person driving any vehicle, object or contrivance upon any street,
highway or highway structure is liable for all damage which the highway or
structure may sustain as a result of any illegal operation, driving or moving
of such vehicle, object or contrivance, or as a result of operating, driving,
or moving any vehicle, object, or contrivance exceeding the maximum dimensions
or weighing in excess of the maximum weight specified in this Chapter but
authorized by a special permit issued as provided in this Chapter. The measure
of liability is the cost of repairing a facility partially damaged or the
depreciated replacement cost of a facility damaged beyond repair together with
all other expenses incurred by the authorities is in control of the highway or
highway structure in providing a temporary detour, including a temporary
structure to serve the needs of traffic during the period of repair or
replacement of the damaged highway or highway structure.
   B.   Whenever such driver is not the owner of such vehicle, object, or
contrivance, but is so operating, driving, or moving the same with the express
or implied permission of such owner, then the owner and driver are jointly and
severally liable to the extent provided in subsection A above.
   C.   Recovery may be had in a civil action brought by the Village. (Ord. 90-
9-41)
11-8-33: WEIGHT ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS:
   A.   On all residential streets except as otherwise provided herein, the
gross weight of any type motor vehicle including the weight of the vehicle and
its maximum load shall not exceed ten thousand (10,000) pounds, except when
such vehicle is making a local delivery, and then such vehicle shall proceed to
its destination via a section street line or highway which is closest to it.
   B.   On the following residential streets, the gross weight of any type
motor vehicle, including the weight of the vehicle and its maximum load shall
not exceed twenty thousand (20,000) pounds, except when such vehicle is making
a local delivery:
      49th Street - 93rd Street to Columbus Avenue
      52nd Avenue - 87th Avenue to 103rd Street
      54th Street - 95th Street to Drury Lane
      91st Street - Central Avenue to Cicero Avenue
      93rd Street - Crawford Avenue to Kilbourne Avenue
      93rd Street - Southwest Highway to Austin Avenue
      95th Place - Oak Park Avenue to Nottingham Avenue
      95th Street, Frontage Road - 69th Avenue to 93rd Street
      99th Street - Crawford Avenue to Mansfield Avenue
      101st Street - Central Avenue to Mayfield Avenue
      101st Street - Cicero Avenue to Kostner Avenue
      105th Street - Austin Avenue to Laramie Avenue
      107th Street - Central Avenue to Long Avenue
      107th Street - Laramie Avenue to Crawford Avenue
      109th Street - Lawler Avenue to Cicero Avenue
      Austin Avenue - 103rd Street to 105th Street
      Columbus Drive - Cicero Avenue to 51st Avenue
      Keeler Avenue - 93rd Street to 99th Street
      Keeler Avenue - 107th Street to 111th Street
      Kenton Avenue - 95th Street to Rumsey Avenue
      Kilbourne Avenue - 95th Street to Southwest Highway
      Kilpatrick Avenue - 103rd Street to 111th Street
      Kostner Avenue - 93rd Street to 111th Street
      Laramie Avenue - 103rd Street to Lawler Avenue
      Mayfield Avenue - 99th Street to 103rd Street
      Minnick Avenue - Drury Lane to 103rd Street
      Oak Center Drive - Central Avenue to Cicero Avenue
      Oak Park Avenue - 93rd Street to 95th Street
      Rumsey Avenue - Kenton Avenue to Kilbourne Avenue
   C.   On the following residential streets the gross weight of any type motor
vehicle, including the weight of the vehicle and its maximum load, shall not
exceed eight thousand (8,000) pounds, except when such vehicle is making a
local delivery:
      Oak Park Avenue - 87th Street to 93rd Street
      Oak Park Avenue - 95th Street to 99th Street
      Natoma-Normandy-Rutherford - 95th Street to 99th Street
   D.   On the following streets the gross weight of any type motor vehicle,
including the weight of the vehicle and its maximum load, shall not exceed
twenty thousand (20,000) pounds, except when such vehicle is making a local
delivery.
      Southwest Highway - Cicero Avenue to 95th Street
   E.   There shall be erected and maintained appropriate signs designating the
provisions of this Section at the ends of the above streets affected thereby.
(Ords. 90-9-41, 92-02-06)
CHAPTER 9
BICYCLES/TRICYCLES
SECTION:
11-9-1: Definitions
11-9-2: Voluntary Registration
11-9-3: Issuance of Registration, Duration
11-9-4: Type of Registration Sticker, Display
11-9-5: Transfer of Ownership of Bicycle/Tricycle
11-9-6: Damaging, Defacing Bicycle/Tricycle Numbers, Stickers
11-9-7: Rental Bicycles/Tricycles
11-9-8: Reports Required
11-9-9: Impounding Bicycles/Tricycles
11-9-10: Equipment
11-9-11: Operation Requirements and Restrictions
11-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is over sixteen inches (16") in
diameter.
CHIEF OF POLICE: The Chief of Police of the Village or any member of the Police
Department of the Village designated by the Chief of Police to act in his place
and stead.
DEALER IN BICYCLES/TRICYCLES:A person engaged in the business of buying and
selling new or used bicycles/tricycles.
RENTAL AGENCY: Any person engaged in the business of offering for rental and
renting bicycles/tricycles for use by the public.
TRICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having three (3) wheels in which one is over sixteen inches (16") in diameter.
(Ord. 213; 1985 Code; Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9-2: VOLUNTARY REGISTRATION:
Any resident of the Village may register any bicycle/tricycle owned by him/her
with the Village Police Department, and procure a registration sticker
therefor. Said registration sticker shall be issued without charge. (Ord. 94-
19-80)
11-9-3: ISSUANCE OF REGISTRATION, DURATION:
The Police Department is hereby authorized and directed to issue upon written
application, bicycle/tricycle registration stickers which shall be permanent
without need for any renewal thereof. (Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9-4: TYPE OF REGISTRATION STICKER, DISPLAY:
The Village shall provide decal registration stickers, said decal registration
stickers having a number printed thereon in numerical order, beginning with
number one, and the name Oak Lawn printed thereon. Such stickers shall be
suitable for attachment upon the bicycle/tricycle, and shall remain attached
during the existence of such registration. The sticker shall be displayed on
the frame of the bicycle/tricycle below the riders seat. (Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9-5: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OF BICYCLE/TRICYCLE:
It shall be the duty of every person who sells or transfers ownership of any
bicycle/tricycle, for which a registration sticker has been issued, to report
such sale or transfer to the Police Department, together with the name and
address of the person to whom said bicycle/tricycle was sold or transferred.
Such report shall be made within five (5) days of the date of said sale or
transfer (Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9-6: DAMAGING, DEFACING BICYCLE/TRICYCLE NUMBERS, STICKERS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, willingly or
maliciously remove, destroy, mutilate or alter the serial or frame number of
any bicycle/tricycle.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any bicycle/tricycle
that has its serial or frame numbers removed, destroyed, mutilated or altered.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, destroy, mutilate or
alter any registration sticker on any bicycle/tricycle during the time in which
such registration sticker is operative. (Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9-7: RENTAL BICYCLES/TRICYCLES:
Bicycles/tricycles offered for rent by a rental agency shall be equipped with
such safety equipment as is required by this Chapter, and shall be kept in good
and safe working order. Rental agencies shall comply, in all respects, with all
of the provisions of this Chapter, and shall be responsible for the condition
of the bicycles/tricycles they rent. The Chief of Police shall make periodical
inspections of rental agencies to ascertain that they are complying with the
provisions of this Chapter. (Ords. 213, 94-19-80)
11-9-8: REPORTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Secondhand Bicycle/Tricycle Buyers: All persons engaged in the business
of buying secondhand bicycles/tricycles are hereby required to make daily
reports to the Police Department, giving the name and address of the person
from whom each bicycle/tricycle is purchased, the description of each bicycle/
tricycle purchased, the frame number thereof, and the number of the
registration sticker found thereon, if any.
   B.   Bicycle Sellers: All persons in the business of selling new or
secondhand bicycles/tricycles are hereby required to make daily reports to the
Police Department, giving a list of all sales made by such dealers, which list
shall include the name and address of each person to whom sold, the kind of
bicycle/tricycle sold, together with a description and frame number thereof,
and the number of registration sticker attached thereto, if any. (Ords. 213,
94-19-80)
11-9-9: IMPOUNDING BICYCLES/TRICYCLES:
The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and empowered to administer the
provisions of this Chapter, and to impound for a period of thirty (30) days any
improperly registered bicycle/tricycle, or the bicycle/tricycle of any person
who violates any of the provisions of this Chapter, or of the ordinances of the
Village relating to street traffic, insofar as they are applicable. The action
of the Chief of Police in impounding a bicycle/tricycle as provided in this
Section shall be conclusive and final. The impounding of a bicycle/tricycle
shall not preclude the infliction of any other penalties upon the person whose
bicycle/tricycle is impounded. (Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9-10: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Every bicycle/tricycle when in use at night shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least five hundred feet (500') to the front, and with a red reflector on the
rear which shall be visible from all distances from one hundred feet (100') to
six hundred feet (600') to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle; or a red light visible from a distance
of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to a red
reflector.
   B.   Every bicycle/tricycle shall be equipped with a horn or bell in good
working order and capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions for
a distance of over one hundred feet (100'), but no horn or other device shall
emit a harsh sound. No bicycles/tricycles shall be equipped with nor shall any
person use a siren or whistle upon a bicycle/tricycle.
   C.   Every bicycle/tricycle operated in the Village shall be kept in good
running order and equipped with adequate brakes, readily operated by foot or
hand. Such brakes shall enable the operator to make the braked wheels skid on
dry, level, clean pavement.
   D.   The Chief of Police shall inspect each bicycle/tricycle previous to the
issuance of a registration sticker therefor, and he may refuse to approve any
bicycle/tricycle which is not properly equipped or is not in safe condition.
   E.   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any provision of
this Chapter. (Ord. 213; 1985 Code; Ord. 94-19-80)
11-9-11: OPERATION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Compliance with Traffic Laws, Regulations: Every person operating a
bicycle/tricycle in the Village shall conform to the provisions of the Uniform
Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, and shall also be subject to the
regulations of this Section.
   B.   Riding Abreast: When two (2) or more persons in a group are operating
bicycles/tricycles, they shall not ride abreast but shall ride single file.
   C.   Keep to Right: All bicycles/tricycles shall be operated as near to the
right-hand curb as conditions will permit, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   D.   Emerging from Alley, Driveway, Garage: Any person operating a bicycle/
tricycle emerging from an alley, driveway or garage, shall stop the bicycle/
tricycle immediately prior to driving onto or across a sidewalk or onto or
across a sidewalk line projected across any alley, and shall exercise extreme
care in these cases.
   E.   Clinging, Attaching to Moving Vehicles: No person operating a bicycle/
tricycle shall cling to or attach himself to any other moving vehicle.
   F.   Attaching Other Vehicles to Bicycles/Tricycles: No bicycle/tricycle
shall have attached to it any other vehicle such as a wagon or sled.
   G.   Riding on Sidewalks:
      1.   No person shall ride a bicycle/tricycle on the sidewalk in the
business district.
      2.   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle/tricycle upon a sidewalk other
than in the business district, such person shall yield the right of way to any
pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing such
person.
   H.   Pedestrians' Right of Way: The pedestrian has the right of way over
bicycles/tricycles at all times.
   I.   Obstructing Streets, Sidewalk: No bicycle/tricycle shall be left lying
upon any street or sidewalk or in such position as to obstruct or interfere
with the use of any street or sidewalk.
   J.   Passengers: No bicycle/tricycle shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an
adult rider may carry a child securely attached to his person in a back pack or
sling.
   K.   Riding "No Hands", Fancy Riding: No rider of a bicycle/tricycle shall
remove both hands from the handlebars or practice any acrobatic or fancy riding
on any street or sidewalk.
   L.   Hand Signals: Proper hand signals should be used at all times.
   M.   Carrying Articles: No person operating a bicycle/tricycle shall carry
any package, article or bundle which prevents the rider from keeping both hands
on the handlebars or obstructs his vision.
   N.   Obedience to Traffic Signs: Every person operating a bicycle/tricycle
must obey all traffic signs. (Ords. 213, 93-18-74, 94-19-80)
CHAPTER 10
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
11-10-1: Definitions
11-10-2: Unlawful Abandonment, Removal Authorized
11-10-3: Temporary Custody By Nonowner, Removal By Towing Service
11-10-4: Exemption From Civil Liability
11-10-5: Abatement Of Nuisance
11-10-6: Penalty
11-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of disrepair
rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or one that
does not have a current, annual vehicle license and tag purchased for it and
attached thereto (except vehicles for sale by new and used motor vehicle
dealers and vehicle repair shops); or other vehicle that has not been moved or
used for seven (7) consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle twenty five (25) years of
age or older.
HIGHWAY: Any street, alley, or public way within the Village. (Ords. 70-19-24,
73-24-40)
11-10-2: UNLAWFUL ABANDONMENT, REMOVAL AUTHORIZED 1 :
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on any
highway in the Village is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth
herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof
on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of the general
public, anywhere in the Village is unlawful. A motor vehicle or other vehicle
or any part thereof so abandoned on private property may be authorized for
removal by or upon the order of the Chief of the Police Department after a
waiting period of seven (7) days or more has expired.
An abandoned vehicle on the private property of the owner or other person
legally entitled to have possession of the vehicle (except repair shops and
vehicle dealers) is hereby declared to be a nuisance. In addition to the
definition provided in this Chapter for "abandoned vehicle", an abandoned
vehicle shall include and mean any unlicensed motor vehicle, or one that does
not have the current annual year license attached to it, which has not been
used or moved for seven (7) consecutive days.
An abandoned vehicle in a repair shop or vehicle dealership, or on any premises
used in connection therewith, where said vehicle is in open view of the public
for more than forty five (45) days is hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ords.
70-19-24, 73-24-40)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section 11-5-11 of this Title.
11-10-3: TEMPORARY CUSTODY BY NONOWNER, REMOVAL BY TOWING SERVICE:
When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this State, not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Police
Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the Village. Upon
receipt of such notification, the Chief of the Police Department shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the
tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally
entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this
Chapter. (Ord. 70-19-24)
11-10-4: EXEMPTION FROM CIVIL LIABILITY:
Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or his legal representative, or any other
person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle
when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this
Chapter. (Ord. 70-19-24)
11-10-5: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: The owner or other person legally entitled to have
possession of the vehicle shall be served with a written notice to abate the
nuisance. Said notice shall substantially inform him of the following:
      1.   That he is committing a nuisance on his property.
      2.   To abate the same in seven (7) days.
      3.   That if he does not, the Village will abate the same by towing the
vehicle to an auto pound and charge the cost to him.
      4.   That he may also be charged in court with violating this Chapter and
fined for each day said nuisance continues.
      5.   That the Village may use any other remedies, ordinances or statutory
procedures against him.
   B.   Failure To Abate, Notice, Complaint: In the event said owner or other
person legally entitled to have possession of the vehicle to whom notice is
given does not remove the abandoned vehicle after seven (7) days, the nuisance
shall be summarily abated by causing said vehicle to be towed to an auto pound.
The owner or other person legally entitled to have possession of the vehicle
shall be notified of the tow and place where held.
All notices required shall be served on such owner or other person legally
entitled to have possession of the vehicle in person by certified mail
addressed to the premises of the violator at his last known address.
A complaint may be filed in the Circuit Court for violating the provisions of
this Section, in lieu of or in addition to the provisions of this Section for
abating the nuisance by towing. (Ord. 73-24-40)
11-10-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined an amount not less
than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each offense. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable hereunder as such.
(Ord. 70-19-24; 1985 Code; Ord. 99-5-11)
CHAPTER 11
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF VEHICULAR REGULATION VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
11-11-1: Purpose
11-11-2: Administrative Composition
11-11-3: Procedures
11-11-4: Administrative Hearings
11-11-5: Additional Notices
11-11-6: Administrative Review
11-11-7: Final Determination Of Liability
11-11-8: Nonappearance Procedures
11-11-9: Schedule Of Fines/Penalties
11-11-10: Judicial Review
11-11-11: Debt To Municipality
11-11-12: Judgments
11-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a fair and efficient method of
enforcement of Village vehicular standing, parking, and equipment violations,
and other Village regulation violations as may be allowed by law, through an
administrative adjudication of said violations, and to provide a schedule of
uniform fines and penalties and authority and procedures for collection of
unpaid fines and penalties. The provisions of this chapter, may be used in lieu
of issuing a citation that requires an appearance in the Fifth Municipal
District Court on one of the Village's traffic and ordinance court dates.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Code, the fine schedule set out in
this chapter shall apply as the penalty for all violations covered by the
administrative adjudication system and no amount greater than that set out
herein shall be applied as a fine for any violation hereunder. Pursuant to 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3(a), the provisions of this chapter shall
apply to the following violations:
   A.   Vehicular standing and parking violations; and
   B.   Violations of any Village code or ordinance governing the condition or
use of equipment on a vehicle.
The aforementioned violations shall be collectively referred to as "vehicular
regulation violations" for purposes of this chapter. (Ords. 99-22-74, 18-10-25)
11-11-2: ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION:
The system of administrative adjudication of vehicular regulation violations
shall be composed of a Traffic Compliance Administrator, Hearing Officer,
Computer Operator/System Coordinator and Hearing Room Personnel (Deputy), with
the power, authority and limitations as are hereinafter set forth:
   A.   Traffic Compliance Administrator Duties: He/she shall be empowered and
is hereby authorized and directed to:
      1.   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
vehicular regulation violations.
      2.   Adopt, distribute and process violation notices and other notices as
may be required under this chapter or as may be reasonably required to carry
out the purpose of this chapter.
      3.   Collect monies paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a final
determination of vehicular regulation violation liability.
      4.   Conduct hearings, as a Hearing Officer with the same power and
authority as is hereinafter set forth, during the absence of the appointed
Hearing Officer.
      5.   Certify copies of final determinations of vehicular regulation
violation liability and factual reports verifying that the final determination
of vehicular regulation violation liability was issued in accordance with this
Code and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3.
      6.   Certify reports to the Secretary of State concerning initiation of
suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this Code
and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5.
      7.   Certify to the Chief of Police the eligibility for immobilization of
any motor vehicle whose owner, notwithstanding any other provision in this
Code, has accumulated ten (10) or more unpaid determinations of liability under
this chapter.
      8.   Review determinations of vehicular regulation violation liability,
or the validity of notices of impending drivers license suspension, in an
administrative review capacity in accordance with the provisions of this Code.
      9.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the administrative adjudication system hereby created.
      10.   Collect unpaid fines and penalties by filing complaints in the
Circuit Court, or by selecting or appointing an individual or agency to act on
behalf of the Village in filing complaints, seeking judgments for unpaid fines
or penalties and pursue all post-judgment remedies available by current law.
   B.   Hearing Officer Duties: He/she shall be empowered and is hereby
authorized and directed to:
      1.   Preside over the administrative hearings, established herein, as the
adjudicator.
      2.   Administer oaths.
      3.   Issue subpoenas to secure the attendance of witnesses and production
of relevant papers or documentation.
      4.   Assess fines and penalties for the violation of vehicular
regulations as are established in section
11-11-9 of this chapter.
      5.   Make final determinations of:
         a.   Vehicular regulation violation liability.
         b.   Validity of notices of impending drivers license suspension.
      6.   Provide for the accurate recordation of the administrative
adjudication hearings.
      7.   Issue certified notices to the Chief of Police regarding the
immobilization of vehicles whose owners have received ten (10) or more final
determinations of liability which remain unpaid.
   C.   System Coordinator Duties: He/she is hereby authorized and directed to
operate and maintain the computer programs for the administrative adjudication
system hereby created, on a day- to-day basis, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Input of violation notice information.
      2.   Input of hearing dates and notice dates.
      3.   Input of fine and penalty assessments and payments.
      4.   Issue payment receipts.
      5.   Issue succeeding notices of hearing dates and/or final
determinations of liability or notices of impending drivers license
suspensions, as directed by the traffic compliance administrator in accordance
with the provisions hereinafter set forth.
      6.   Issue certified notices to the Secretary of State and Chief of
Police regarding persons who have received ten (10) or more final
determinations of liability which remain unpaid.
      7.   Keep accurate records of appearances and nonappearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered, fines and penalties assessed and paid.
   D.   Hearing Room Personnel Duties: He/she is hereby authorized and directed
to:
      1.   Maintain hearing room decorum.
      2.   Have and execute authority as is granted to courtroom deputies of
the Circuit Court.
      3.   Perform such other duties or acts as may reasonably be required and
as directed by the hearing officer or traffic compliance administrator.
This position shall be limited to off-duty, full-time, part-time or auxiliary
police officers.
   E.   Appointments: The Village Manager shall assign the duties of traffic
compliance administrator, system coordinator and hearing room personnel to
Village employees. The Village President, with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees, is hereby authorized to appoint a person to hold the
position of hearing officer.
   F.   Compensation: Compensation, if any, to be paid for each of the above
stated positions shall be as determined by the President and Board of Trustees
in the annual budget ordinance. (Ord. 99-22-74)
11-11-3: PROCEDURES:
The system of administrative adjudication of vehicular regulation violations
shall be in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   Violation Notice: Vehicular regulation violation notices shall be
issued by the persons authorized herein and shall contain information and shall
be served, certificated and have evidentiary admissibility as is hereinafter
set forth.
   B.   Authorization: All full-time, part-time and auxiliary police officers
as well as other specifically appointed individuals shall have the authority to
issue vehicular regulation violation notices.
   C.   Detection Of Violations: Any individual authorized hereby to issue
vehicular regulation violation notices and who detects such a violation shall
issue a notice of violation thereof and shall make service thereof as is
hereinafter set forth.
   D.   Hang-On Violation Notice: The vehicular regulation "hang-on violation
notice" shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance).
      2.   The particular vehicular regulation violated.
      3.   Vehicle make and state registration number.
      4.   The fine and any penalty which may be assessed for late payment.
      5.   The signature and identification number of the person issuing the
notice.
      6.   A section entitled "Request for Hearing" which shall clearly set
forth that the registered owner, operator or lessee may appear at the initial
administrative hearing to contest the validity of the violation notice on the
date and at the time and place as specified in the "hang-on violation notice"
by:
         a.   Checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly
identified, "Request for Hearing".
         b.   Placing his/her name and current address in the place provided.
         c.   Signing his/her name in the appropriate indicated place.
         d.   Filing the "hang-on violation notice", with the "Request for
Hearing" portion fully completed, with the traffic compliance administrator
postmarked by the twenty fifth of the month, if the violation notice was issued
between the first through the fifteenth day of the month, or postmarked by the
tenth of the following month, if the violation notice was issued between the
sixteenth and the end of the month. The request shall be deemed filed upon
receipt by the traffic compliance administrator.
      7.   The date, time and place of an administrative hearing at which the
violation may be contested on its merits.
      8.   That payment of the indicated fine and any late payment penalty
shall operate as a final disposition.
      9.   A section entitled, "Request for Hearing - Nonappearance", which
clearly sets forth that any registered owner, operator or lessee may appear at
the initial administrative hearing to contest the validity of the violation
notice without personally appearing by:
         a.   Checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly
identified, "Request for Hearing - Nonappearance".
         b.   Placing his/her name and current address in the place provided.
         c.   Signing his/her name in the appropriate indicated place.
         d.   Filing the violation notice with the "Request for Hearing -
Nonappearance" portion fully completed, with the traffic compliance
administrator postmarked by the twenty fifth of the month, if the violation
notice was issued between the first through the fifteenth day of the month, or
postmarked by the tenth of the following month, if the violation notice was
issued between the sixteenth and the end of the month.
         e.   Filing a notarized statement of facts, specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice, with the traffic compliance administrator
postmarked by the twenty fifth of the month, if the violation notice was issued
between the first through the fifteenth day of the month, or postmarked by the
tenth of the following month, if the violation notice was issued between the
sixteenth and the end of the month.
         f.   A clearly marked statement that execution of the "Request for
Hearing - Nonappearance" is a waiver of the person's right to a personal
appearance and that the adjudication will be made based upon the notarized
statement of facts submitted by the individual and the facts contained in the
violation notice.
   E.   Service Of Notice: Service of the vehicular regulation violation notice
shall be made by the person issuing such notice by:
      1.   Affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to any unlawfully
standing or parked vehicle or any vehicle found to be in an unlawful condition,
or
      2.   Handing the notice to the registered owner, operator or lessee of
the vehicle, if present.
   F.   Certification Of Facts: The correctness of facts contained in the
vehicular regulation violation notice shall be certified by the person issuing
said notice by:
      1.   Signing his/her name to the notice at the time of issuance, or
      2.   In the case of a notice produced by a computer device, by signing a
single certificate, to be kept by the traffic compliance administrator,
attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the device while under
his/her control.
   G.   Retention Of Notice: The original or a facsimile of the vehicular
regulation violation notices shall be retained by the traffic compliance
administrator and kept as a record in the ordinary course of business.
   H.   Prima Facie Evidence Of Correctness: Any vehicular regulation violation
notice issued, signed and served in accordance herewith, or a copy of the
notice, shall, pursuant to statute, be deemed prima facie correct and shall be
prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown on the notice.
   I.   Admissibility: The vehicular regulation violation notices shall be
admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal proceeding. (Ord. 99-22-
74)
11-11-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
An administrative hearing to adjudicate the alleged vehicular regulation
violation on its merits or the validity of a notice of impending driver's
license suspension:
   A.   Shall be granted to the registered owner, operator or lessee of the
"cited vehicle", pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3 or 5/6-
306.5.
   B.   Shall be on the date, at the time and at the place as is set forth in
the vehicular regulation violation notice ("hang- on violation notice") issued
and served, as is set forth in any subsequent notice issued in accordance with
this Code or as is set by the traffic compliance administrator and served upon
the registered owner, operator or lessee for hearings contesting the validity
of notices or of impending driver's license suspension.
   C.   Shall be tape-recorded.
   D.   Shall include consideration of any written, notarized statement of
facts timely submitted by persons filing a "Request for Hearing -
Nonappearance".
   E.   Shall allow persons appearing to contest the alleged violation on its
merits to be represented by counsel at their own expense.
   F.   Shall be subject to review as hereinafter set forth.
   G.   Shall culminate in a determination of liability or nonliability, made
by the hearing officer, who shall consider facts and/or testimony without the
application of the formal or technical rules of evidence. Such determination
shall provide the opportunity to petition for administrative review as herein
explained. The hearing officer shall, upon a determination of liability, assess
fines and penalties in accordance with Section
11-11-9 of this Chapter. (Ord. 99-22-74)
11-11-5: ADDITIONAL NOTICES:
   A.   Upon failure of the registered owner, operator or lessee of the "cited
vehicle" to appear at the initial administrative hearing indicated in the
vehicular regulation violation notice ("hang-on violation notice") the traffic
compliance administrator shall send or cause to be sent additional notices
which:
      1.   Shall be sent to the registered owner or operator of the "cited
vehicle" at the address as is recorded with the Secretary of State.
      2.   Shall be sent to the lessee of the "cited vehicle" at the address
last known to the lessor of the "cited vehicle" at the time of the lease.
      3.   Shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid.
      4.   Shall be complete as to service as of the date of deposit in the
United States mail.
      5.   Shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information:
         a.   Date and location of violation cited in the vehicular regulation
violation notice.
         b.   Particular regulation violated.
         c.   Vehicle make and state registration.
         d.   Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment.
         e.   Notice to the registered owner, operator or lessee of their
current status, other than paid in full.
         f.   Date, time and place of the second administrative hearing at
which the alleged violation may be contested on its merits.
         g.   A statement that failure to either pay the fine and any
applicable penalty, or failure to appear at the hearing on the date and at the
time and place specified, will result in a determination of vehicular
regulation violation liability for the "cited" violation in the amount of the
fine and penalty indicated.
         h.   A statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
vehicular violation liability and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust,
available administrative and/or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid fine
or penalty will constitute a debt due and owing the Village. This statement
shall also advise said owner, operator or lessee of the time constraints in
relation to available administrative and judicial procedures for review.
   B.   Upon failure of the registered owner, operator or lessee of the "cited
vehicle" to appear at the initial administrative hearing indicated in the
vehicular regulation violation notice ("hang-on violation notice"), and after
failure to appear at the second hearing scheduled, a notice of determination of
vehicular regulation violation liability shall be sent detailing, the rights of
the offender to petition for the determination to be set aside on certain
grounds; and notice that ten (10) or more outstanding determinations and
failure to pay within forty five (45) days will result in a report being sent
to the Secretary of State's office that the offender is eligible for license
suspension. Such notice shall inform the recipient that if ten (10) or more
unpaid final determinations of liability are outstanding the Chief of Police
will be informed of the vehicle's eligibility for immobilization. (Ord. 99-22-
74)
11-11-6: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
A petition to set aside a determination of vehicular regulation violation
liability may be filed by a person owing an unpaid fine or penalty in the
manner and subject to the restrictions and grounds hereinafter set forth:
   A.   A written petition to set aside a determination of liability must be
filed in the office of the traffic compliance administrator within, but not
later than, fourteen (14) days from the date the determination of liability is
made.
   B.   The traffic compliance administrator shall act upon those petitions
timely filed and render a decision thereon within fourteen (14) days of the
date filed.
   C.   The grounds for setting aside a determination of liability shall be
limited to the following:
      1.   The person against whom the determination of liability is made was
not the registered owner, operator or lessee of the "cited vehicle" on the date
the vehicular regulation violation notice was issued;
      2.   The person has paid the fine or penalty prior to the determination
of liability for the violation(s) in question; or
      3.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
   D.   Should the determination of liability be set aside, the traffic
compliance administrator shall:
      1.   Notify the registered owner, operator or lessee, as the case may be,
that the determination of liability has been set aside.
      2.   Notify the registered owner, operator or lessee, as the case may be,
of a date, time and place for a hearing on the merits of the violation for
which determination of liability has been set aside.
      3.   The notices referenced in subsections D1 and D2 of this Section
shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address set forth on
the petition to set aside the determination of liability.
      4.   Service of the notices shall be complete on the date the notices are
deposited in the United States mail.
   E.   Should the determination of liability not be set aside, the traffic
compliance administrator, shall:
      1.   Notify the registered owner, operator or lessee, as the case may be,
that the determination has not been set aside and is now deemed to be a final
determination reviewable by the Circuit Court under the Administrative Review
Law upon filing a lawsuit with the Circuit Court within thirty five (35) days
of receipt of the notice. (Ord. 99-22-74)
11-11-7: FINAL DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
A final determination of vehicular regulation violation liability shall occur:
   A.   Following the failure to pay the fine or penalty after the hearing
officer's determination of vehicular regulation violation liability and the
exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust any administrative review procedures
hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Where a person fails to appear at the second hearing to contest the
alleged violation(s) on the date and at the time and place specified in the
mailed notice, the hearing officer's determination of vehicular regulation
violation liability shall become final:
      1.   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination
pursuant to section
11-11-6 of this chapter; or
      2.   Upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition pursuant to
section
11-11-6 of this chapter without a filing having been made. (Ord. 99-22-74)
11-11-8: NONAPPEARANCE PROCEDURES:
Individuals who have been served with a vehicular regulation violation notice
may contest the alleged violation on its merits, or may contest the validity
without personally appearing at an administrative hearing by:
   A.   Completing, in full, the "request for hearing - nonappearance" section
of the "hang on violation notice", served upon him/her.
   B.   Signing the "request for hearing - nonappearance" in the space
specified in the "hang on violation notice", and acknowledging that his/her
personal appearance is waived and submitting to an adjudication based upon the
notarized statement filed by him/her and the facts contained in the "hang on
violation notice".
   C.   Filing the "hang on violation notice" with the "request for hearing -
nonappearance" section fully completed with the traffic compliance
administrator postmarked by the twenty fifth of the month, if the violation
notice was issued between the first through the fifteenth day of the month, or
postmarked by the tenth of the following month, if the violation notice was
issued between the sixteenth and the end of the month.
   D.   Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice with the traffic compliance administrator
postmarked by the twenty fifth of the month, if the violation notice was issued
between the first through the fifteenth day of the month, or postmarked by the
tenth of the following month, if the violation notice was issued between the
sixteenth and the end of the month.
   E.   The hearing officer shall make an adjudication based upon the facts set
forth in the notarized statement of facts filed and the facts contained in the
"hang on violation notice".
   F.   Notice of the determination of the hearing officer shall be served by
first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the address set forth in the
statement of facts submitted in the same manner as set forth in subsection 11-
11-5B of this chapter.
   G.   Persons who receive a determination of liability pursuant to a "request
for hearing - nonappearance" shall also have the opportunity to petition for
review and to claim in writing the defenses listed in subsection 11-11-6C of
this chapter. Upon denial of a petition for such review or upon a hearing after
such petition is granted, a final determination shall issue indicating the
offender's right to file a lawsuit with the circuit court under the
administrative review law within thirty five (35) days of receipt of the final
determination.
   H.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notice is
placed in the United States mail. (Ord. 99-22-74)
11-11-9: SCHEDULE OF FINES/PENALTIES:
The fines and penalties which shall be imposed for the violation of vehicular
regulations shall be as follows:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provisions to the contrary in this code, for
violations of any code provision regulating, restricting or prohibiting the
standing or parking of motor vehicles along the streets, byways, alleyways,
regulated parking lots or such other locations as may be controlled by off
street parking agreements, located within the geographical boundaries of the
village, including handicapped parking, for violations regarding the use or
condition of vehicular equipment and for violations regarding municipal vehicle
stickers, the fines shall be as set forth in the following schedule:
   FINE PAYMENT SCHEDULE
 
                                              General Fine Handicapped Commuter
       Fine Schedule                          Amount       Fine Amount Lot Fine
                                                                       Amount
       Upon service of a "hang on violation                $250.00     $ 25.00
Step 1 notice" the fine amount owed prior to  $ 50.00                  
       or on the first hearing date shall be:
       Upon failure to pay the fine amount
       specified in step 1 of this schedule
Step 2 prior to or on the first hearing date, 75.00        300.00      50.00
       the fine amount after the first
       hearing date shall be:
       Upon failure to pay the fine amount
       specified in step 2 of this schedule
Step 3 prior to the second hearing date, the  100.00       325.00      75.00
       fine amount after the second hearing
       date shall be:
       Upon failure to pay the fine amount
Step 4 specified in step 2 of this schedule   125.00       350.00      100.00
       and failing to appear at the second
       hearing the fine amount shall be:
 
   B.   As a courtesy to an individual who files a written request for hearing
pursuant to subsection
11-11-3D6 of this chapter, or who files a "request for hearing - nonappearance"
pursuant to subsection
11-11-3D9 and section
11-11-8 of this chapter, the fine amount shall be frozen at step 1 of the fine
payment schedule until after the first hearing. The hearing officer is
authorized to impose costs in the amount of seven dollars ($7.00) for each
violation upon a determination of liability.
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of any other section of this code, the
fines and penalties herein set forth shall be uniformly applied for each
violation of any code provision regulating, restricting or prohibiting the
standing or parking of motor vehicles, the use or condition of vehicular
equipment and the requirement for display of a municipal vehicle sticker
presently in effect or hereafter adopted.
   D.   Notwithstanding payment of any of the aforesaid penalties and fines any
vehicle found to have ten (10) or more other unpaid final determinations under
this chapter or ten (10) or more unpaid vehicle code violations adjudicated by
the circuit court shall be eligible for immobilization under the provisions of
section
11-5-14 of this title. (Ord. 08-16-41)
11-11-10: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Final determinations of vehicular regulation violation liability made pursuant
to sections
11-11-1 through
11-11-12 of this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of the
administrative review law as is set forth in 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
3-101 et seq. (Ord. 99-22-74)
11-11-11: DEBT TO MUNICIPALITY:
Any fine, penalty or part of any fine or any penalty assessed in accordance
with the provisions of sections
11-11-1 through
11-11-12 of this chapter, and remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, administrative remedies and the conclusion of any judicial
review procedures, shall be a debt due and owing the village and, as such, may
be collected in accordance with the applicable law. Payment in full of any fine
or penalty resulting from a violation under this chapter shall constitute a
final disposition of that violation. (Ord. 99-22-74)
11-11-12: JUDGMENTS:
The traffic compliance administrator shall, following the expiration of the
period within which administrative and judicial review may be sought for a
determination of vehicular regulation violation liability take all necessary
actions, execute all required documents and appoint or retain any individual or
agency deemed appropriate to obtain a judgment against and collect monies from
the person(s) who have been assessed fines or penalties which remain unpaid,
and have become a debt due and owing the village, in accordance with the
provisions of section
11-11-11 of this chapter and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3, in the
following manner:
   A.   By filing a complaint in the circuit court praying for the entry of a
judgment against the person for whom a final determination of vehicular
regulation violation liability has been made. The complaint filed by the
traffic compliance administrator or individual or agency on behalf of the
village, seeking entry of a judgment against an individual for unpaid fines
and/or penalties pursuant to a final determination of vehicular regulation
violation liability, shall have attached to it:
      1.   A certified copy of the final determination of vehicular regulation
violation liability.
      2.   A certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the final
determination of vehicular regulation violation liability was issued in
accordance with this code and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3.
Nothing shall prevent the village from consolidating multiple final
determinations of vehicular regulation violation liability in an action in the
circuit court against an individual. The summons and a copy of the complaint
may be served upon the person against whom a judgment is sought under the
provisions of this code by any method provided under state statute; or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, provided the total amount of fines
and penalties for final determination of vehicular regulation violation
liability does not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   By pursuing all available remedies, allowed by law, to collect money
judgments. (Ord. 99-22-74)
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF NONVEHICULAR REGULATIONS VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
11-12-1: Purpose
11-12-2: Administrative Composition
11-12-3: Procedure
11-12-4: Administrative Hearing
11-12-5: Administrative Review, Judgment And Collection
11-12-6: Judgment And Collection
11-12-7: Election Of Remedies Nonexclusive
11-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide a fair and efficient method of
enforcement of the Village's regulations through administrative adjudication of
charges of nonvehicular violations of this Code. All provisions of this Code
may be enforced through the administrative adjudication system provided the
system shall have no authority to impose a penalty of incarceration or
adjudicate an offense under the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code which is a traffic
regulation governing moving vehicles, or to impose a fine in excess of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00). The Village reserves its right to employ all
other means and methods available under the law to enforce this Code, including
direct application to the courts.
PA 90-0516 to be found at section 1-2.1-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1
allows home rule municipalities to provide by ordinance for a system of
administrative adjudication of municipal code violations to the extent
permitted by the Illinois constitution. The Village is a home rule
municipality. The Illinois constitution provides that a home rule unit may
exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and
affairs (Illinois Constitution, art. VII, sec. 6(a)(1970)). The Illinois
constitution also provides that a home rule unit may exercise and perform
concurrently with the State any power or function of a home rule unit to the
extent that the General Assembly by law does not specifically limit the
concurrent exercise or specifically declare the State's exercise to be
exclusive (Illinois Constitution, art. VII, sec. 6(i)(1970)). The Illinois
constitution further provides that the powers and functions of home rule units
shall be construed liberally (Illinois Constitution, art. VII, sec. 6(m)
(1970)). (Ord. 99-22-74)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2.1-2.
11-12-2: ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION:
The system of administrative adjudication of nonvehicular regulations
violations shall be composed of a Code Hearing Unit which shall be comprised of
a hearing officer, and may include any one or more of the following: an
administrator, computer operator/system coordinator and hearing room personnel
(deputy), with the power, authority and limitations hereinafter set forth:
   A.   Powers Of The Hearing Officer: The hearing officer shall have all of
the powers granted to hearing officers under State law, set forth at 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.1-4, the provisions of which are incorporated
herein by this reference, including the power to:
      1.   Preside over all administrative hearings as the adjudicator.
      2.   Administer oaths.
      3.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the existence
of the Code violation.
      4.   Issue subpoenas to secure the attendance of witnesses and the
production of relevant papers or documentation upon the request of the parties
or their representatives.
      5.   Rule upon objections and the admissibility of evidence.
      6.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits
and evidence introduced at the hearing.
      7.   Issue a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, of whether a Village Code violation exists. The determination shall be
in writing and shall include a written finding of fact, decision, and order
setting forth the fine, penalty, or action with which the person found liable
must comply.
      8.   Impose penalties consistent with applicable Village Code provisions
and assess costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation.
Notwithstanding those violations for which the Illinois Municipal Code limits
the fine or penalty to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) the hearing
officer shall have the authority to impose fines and penalties up to fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
      9.   In no event shall a hearing officer have the authority to:
         a.   Impose a penalty of incarceration.
         b.   Impose a fine in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
         c.   The maximum mandatory fine under subsection A9b of this Section,
shall be exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs imposed to secure
compliance with the Municipality's ordinances and shall not be applicable to
cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed and collected by the
Municipality.
   B.   Powers Of The Administrator: The administrator shall be empowered and
is authorized and directed to:
      1.   Operate and manage this administrative adjudication system.
      2.   Adopt, distribute and process Village Code violation notices and
other notices as may be required to carry out the purpose of this Chapter.
      3.   Collect monies paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a final
determination of a Village Code violation.
      4.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain this administrative adjudication system.
      5.   Collect unpaid fines and penalties and otherwise pursue all post-
judgment remedies available under law.
   C.   Powers Of The System Coordinator: The system coordinator/computer
operator shall operate and maintain computer programs for the administrative
adjudication system created hereunder, on a day-to-day basis, including, but
not limited to:
      1.   Input of violation notice information.
      2.   Hearing and notice dates.
      3.   Fine and penalty assessments and payments.
      4.   Issue receipts for payment.
      5.   Issue succeeding notices of hearing or court dates and/or final
determination of liability, as directed by the administrator or by the hearing
officer in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth.
      6.   Keep accurate records of appearances and nonappearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered, fines and penalties assessed and paid.
   D.   Powers Of The Hearing Room Personnel: The hearing room personnel shall
be full-time, part-time, off-duty or auxiliary police officers. The hearing
room personnel shall:
      1.   Maintain hearing room decorum.
      2.   Have and carry out such authority as is granted to courtroom
deputies of the Circuit Court.
      3.   Perform such other duties or acts as may reasonably be required to
maintain hearing room decorum as directed by the hearing officer, or by the
administrator.
   E.   Selection And Appointment Of Personnel: The persons who shall hold the
positions of administrator, hearing officer, computer operator/systems
coordinator, and hearing room personnel under this Chapter shall be selected,
and appointed according to the following procedures:
      1.   Hearing Officer: The Village Manager is hereby authorized to appoint
a person(s) to hold the position of hearing officer.
      2.   Selection Criteria: In making selections, the Village Manager shall
consider all pertinent information, including at a minimum:
         a.   Candidate's ability to comply with the job descriptions as set
forth herein; and
         b.   Background and performance data made available to the Village
Manager, on file with the Village, or otherwise obtained by the Village; and
         c.   Whether the candidate meets the statutory criteria as an attorney
licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois for at least three (3) years.
      3.   Administrator, System Coordinator And Hearing Room Personnel:
         a.   The Village Manager shall assign the duties of administrator,
system coordinator and hearing room personnel to Village employees.
   F.   Compensation: Compensation to be paid for any of the above stated
positions shall be established annually as set forth in the Village's Pay and
Benefits Ordinance.
   G.   Training Of Personnel: Prior to a hearing officer conducting these
administrative adjudication proceedings, the hearing officer must successfully
complete a formal training program pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
1-2.1-4(c) that includes:
      1.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative hearings
which he or she will conduct;
      2.   Training in each subject area of the Code violations that he or she
will adjudicate;
      3.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
      4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders. (Ord. 99-22-74)
11-12-3: PROCEDURE:
The system of administrative adjudication of nonvehicular regulations
violations shall be conducted in accordance with the following procedures to
assure defendants are afforded due process of law:
   A.   Issuance Of Violation Notices: Village Code violation notices
("violation notices") may be issued by any authorized person and shall contain
information and shall be served, certified and have evidentiary value as
hereinafter stated.
   B.   Authorization: All full-time, part-time and auxiliary police officers
and other specifically appointed individuals including, but not limited to, the
Village's Code Enforcement Unit shall have the authority to issue violation
notices.
   C.   Detections Of Violations: Any individual authorized to issue a
violation notice who detects a violation of any nonvehicular regulation shall
issue a notice of violation thereof and shall serve the violation notice as
herein provided.
   D.   Content: Violation notices shall contain, at a minimum:
      1.   The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance).
      2.   The particular Village Code section or regulation violated.
      3.   The common address of the building or property alleged to be in
violation (the "cited property"), if applicable.
      4.   The fine and any penalty which may be assessed.
      5.   The signature and identification number, if applicable, of the
person issuing the violation notice.
      6.   The date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which the
charge may be contested on its merits. This date shall be no less than fifteen
(15) days after the date of service of the violation notice. A hearing may be
set at a date less than fifteen (15) days after the date of service of the
violation in an emergency situation where the violation constitutes a threat to
public interest, safety or welfare.
      7.   A statement of penalties for failure to appear at the hearing.
   E.   Service Of Violation Notices: Service of violation notice shall be made
in a manner reasonably calculated to give the defendant actual notice, by:
      1.   Handing a copy of the violation notice to the person charged; or
      2.   Delivering a copy of the violation notice to the person charged by
certified mail, return receipt. Such service shall be complete as of the date
of deposit in the United States mail.
      3.   If a building code violation is alleged where the person charged is
an owner or manager of the property, posting a copy on the cited property.
   F.   Certification: The correctness of facts contained in the violation
notice shall be certified by the issuing person by:
      1.   Signing his/her name to the violation notice at the time of
issuance, or
      2.   In the case of a violation notice produced by a computer device, by
signing a single certificate, to be kept by the administrator, attesting to the
correctness of all violation notices produced by the device while under his/her
control.
   G.   Business Records: The original or complete copy of the violation notice
shall be retained and kept as a record in the ordinary course of Village
business.
   H.   Prima Facie Evidence: Any violation notice issued, signed and served in
accordance herewith, or a complete copy of the notice, shall be deemed prima
facie correct and shall be considered prima facie evidence of the facts alleged
therein.
   I.   Admissibility: The violation notice shall be admissible in any
subsequent administrative or legal proceeding. (Ord. 99-22-74)
11-12-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
An administrative hearing shall be held to adjudicate an alleged Village Code
violation on its merits, or to contest the validity of a violation notice.
Specifically, hearings shall be held to adjudicate alleged violations of all
Village Code sections except those that are excluded by law from the Village's
administrative adjudication system.
   A.   Time And Date: Hearings shall be on the date, time and place as set
forth in the violation notice issued and served.
   B.   Recording: Hearings shall be tape-recorded.
   C.   Nonappearance: Persons who do not appear on their scheduled hearing
date shall have a default judgment entered against them.
   D.   Hearings Rights: Persons appearing to contest an alleged Village Code
violation may be represented by counsel of their own choice at their own
expense, may present witnesses, may present testimony and documents, may cross-
examine opposing witnesses, and may request the issuance of subpoenas to compel
the appearance of relevant witnesses or the production of relevant documents.
   E.   Evidentiary Standard: The formal and technical rules of evidence do not
apply in an administrative hearing conducted in compliance with this Chapter.
Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted, pursuant to State law set forth
at 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.1-6, only if it is of the type commonly
relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
   F.   Determination Of Liability: Hearings shall result in a default
judgment, or a determination of liability or nonliability, made by the hearing
officer, who shall consider facts and/or testimony. The hearing officer shall,
upon a determination of liability, assess fines and penalties in accordance
with this Chapter and issue a notice of final determination that shall contain,
at a minimum, the following information and warnings:
      1.   The findings, decision and order of the hearing officer.
      2.   A date by which the violation must be brought into compliance with
this Code.
      3.   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a debt
due and owing the Village.
      4.   A warning that the findings, decision and order of the hearing
officer may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of
competent jurisdiction. And in the case in which a defendant fails to comply
with a judgment ordering the correction of a Village Code violation or imposing
any fine or other sanction as a result of the Village Code violation, a
statement that any expenses incurred by the Village to enforce the judgment,
including, but not limited to, attorney fees, court costs and costs related to
property demolition or foreclosure, shall be a debt due and owing the
Municipality and may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
      5.   A notice of judgment entered by default shall be forwarded to any
person who fails to appear and shall contain the same information as a
determination of liability stating that the judgment may be set aside by the
hearing officer if, within twenty one (21) days of issuance of the judgment, a
petition is received stating what the hearing officer determines is good cause
for failure to appear. The hearing officer, upon making a determination of good
cause shall, within the twenty one (21) day period, provide the petitioner with
notice of a new hearing date or denial of the petition. The default judgment
shall state that it shall constitute a final determination of liability if such
petition is not received, if the petition is denied, or if after setting of a
new hearing date the person fails to appear.
   G.   Final Determination: The determination of liability shall constitute a
final determination for purposes of judicial review and shall be subject to
review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law as set forth in 735
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq. (Ord. 99-22-74)
11-12-5: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW, JUDGMENT AND COLLECTION:
Administrative review of final determinations issued by the hearing officer
under this Title shall be subject to the provisions of the Administrative
Review Law as is set forth in 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq.,
of the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure which sections are incorporated herein
by reference. (Ord. 99-22-74)
11-12-6: JUDGMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   Enforcement: Upon expiration of the period in which judicial review
under the Illinois Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final
determination of a Village Code violation unless stayed by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the findings, decision and order of the hearing officer may be
enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   B.   Court Costs, Attorney Fees And Costs Of Collection: In any case in
which a person has failed to comply with a hearing officer's judgment ordering
the correction of a Village Code violation or imposing any fine or other
sanction as a result of a Village Code violation, any expenses incurred by the
Village to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney fees,
court costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure, after
they are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or by the hearing officer,
shall be a debt due and owing the Village and may be collected in accordance
with applicable law.
      1.   Prior to any expenses being fixed by the hearing officer pursuant to
this subsection, the Village shall provide notice to the person that states
that the person shall appear at a hearing before the hearing officer to
determine whether the person has failed to comply with the judgment. The notice
shall set the date for such hearing, which shall not be less than seven (7)
days from the date that notice is served. If notice is served by mail, the
seven (7) day period shall begin on the date the notice was deposited in the
mail.
      2.   Upon being recorded in the manner required by article 12 of the Code
of Civil Procedure 1  or by the Uniform Commercial Code, a lien shall be
imposed on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the person in the
amount of any debt due and owing the Village under this Section. The lien may
be enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien would be enforced in a court
of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 99-22-74)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq.
11-12-7: ELECTION OF REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE:
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall prevent the Village from pursuing all
available remedies, allowed by law, to collect money judgments. (Ord. 99-22-74)
CHAPTER 13
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
11-13-1: Definitions
11-13-2: System Locations
11-13-3: Duties Of The Administrator
11-13-4: Violation Notices
11-13-5: Determination Of Violations
11-13-6: Hearing Procedures
11-13-7: Final Determination Of Violations
11-13-8: Petition For Review
11-13-9: Suspension Notice
11-13-10: Appeal Of Suspension Notice
11-13-11: Nonappearance Procedures
11-13-12: Penalty
11-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, words or terms shall have the following meanings
unless the context or usage clearly indicates that another meaning is intended:
ADMINISTRATOR: The village's traffic administrator, as appointed by the village
manager.
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: A device, whether mobile or fixed,
with one or more motor vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red light
signal to produce recorded images of motor vehicles entering an intersection
against a red light signal in violation of section 11-306 of the code or a
similar provision of a village ordinance.
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW VIOLATION: A violation described in section 11-208.6 of
the code.
CERTIFIED REPORT: A report concerning five (5) or more unpaid fines or
penalties for automated traffic law violations made by the village to the
secretary in accordance with section 6-306.5 of the code.
CODE: The Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq.
DETERMINATION NOTICE: A notice of final determination of automated traffic law
violation liability issued pursuant to section 11-208.3 of the code and
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
RECORDED IMAGES: Images showing the time, date and location of an automated
traffic law violation recorded by an automated traffic law enforcement system
on: a) two (2) or more photographs, b) two (2) or more microphotographs, c) two
(2) or more electronic images, or d) a video recording showing the motor
vehicle and, on at least one image or portion of the recording, clearly
identifying the registration plate number of the motor vehicle.
SECRETARY: The Illinois secretary of state.
SUSPENSION NOTICE: A notice of impending driver's license suspension issued
pursuant to section 11-208.3 of the code and pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
SYSTEM: Individually, an automated traffic law enforcement system or,
collectively, automated traffic law enforcement systems established in the
village pursuant to this chapter.
VILLAGE: The village of Oak Lawn, Cook County, Illinois.
VIOLATION NOTICE: An automated traffic law violation notice issued pursuant to
sections 11-208.3 and 11-208.6 of the code and pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter. (Ords. 07-08-28, 07-18-53)
11-13-2: SYSTEM LOCATIONS:
The village hereby determines to establish systems at the following
intersections located within the corporate limits of the village:
93rd Street and Pulaski Road.
95th Street and Pulaski Road.
99th Street and Pulaski Road.
103rd Street and Pulaski Road.
107th Street and Pulaski Road.
111th Street and Pulaski Road.
95th Street and K-Mart private drive (Karlov).
95th Street and Keeler Avenue.
95th Street and Kostner Avenue.
103rd Street and Kostner Avenue.
111th Street and Kostner Avenue.
87th Street and Cicero Avenue.
88th Street and Cicero Avenue.
91st Street and Cicero Avenue.
93rd Street (SW Highway) and Cicero Avenue.
94th Street and Cicero Avenue.
95th Street and Cicero Avenue.
99th Street and Cicero Avenue.
103rd Street and Cicero Avenue.
105th Street and Cicero Avenue.
107th Street and Cicero Avenue.
110th Street and Cicero Avenue.
111th Street and Cicero Avenue.
103rd Street and Lawler Avenue.
93rd Street (SW Highway) and 52nd Avenue.
95th Street and 52nd Avenue.
103rd Street and 52nd Avenue.
95th Street and Cook Avenue.
95th Street and 54th Avenue.
87th Street and Central Avenue.
91st Street and Central Avenue.
93rd Street (SW Highway) and Central Avenue.
95th Street and Central Avenue.
99th Street and Central Avenue.
103rd Street and Central Avenue.
107th Street and Central Avenue.
111th Street and Central Avenue.
95th Street and SW Highway.
97th Street and SW Highway.
99th Street and SW Highway.
Kilbourn Avenue and SW Highway.
95th Street and Melvina Avenue.
87th Street and Ridgeland Avenue.
89th Street and Ridgeland Avenue.
91st Street and Ridgeland Avenue.
93rd Street and Ridgeland Avenue.
87th Street and Oak Park Avenue.
95th Street and Oak Park Avenue.
111th Street and Jodan Drive.
103rd Street and Kilpatrick Avenue. (Ords. 07-08-28, 07-18-53)
11-13-3: DUTIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR:
The administrator or his designee shall be authorized to adopt, distribute and
process violation notices and other notices required by chapter 11 of this
title for the administrative adjudication of automated traffic law violations,
collect money paid as fines and penalties for automated traffic law violations
and operate an administrative adjudication system for automated traffic law
violations. The administrator is also authorized to make a certified report to
the secretary pursuant to section 6-306.5 of the code, and any such certified
report shall contain the information required under section 6-306.5(c) of the
code. (Ord. 07-08-28)
11-13-4: VIOLATION NOTICES:
A violation notice, the contents of which shall comply with the requirements of
chapter 11 of this title and with section 11-208.6 of the code, as amended,
shall be served by mail to the address of the registered owner of a vehicle
cited for an automated traffic law violation as recorded with the secretary
within thirty (30) days after the secretary notifies the village of the
identity of the owner of the vehicle, but in no event later than ninety (90)
days after the violation. Service of a violation notice shall be deemed
complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail. The original or a
facsimile of a violation notice or, in the case of a violation notice produced
by a computerized device, a printed record generated by the device showing the
facts entered on the violation notice, shall be retained by the administrator,
and shall be a record kept in the ordinary course of business. A violation
notice issued, signed and served in accordance with this chapter and chapter 11
of this title, a copy of the violation notice or the computer generated record
shall be prima facie correct and shall be prima facie evidence of the
correctness of the facts shown on the violation notice. The violation notice,
copy or computer generated record shall be admissible in any subsequent
administrative or legal proceedings. (Ord. 07-08-28)
11-13-5: DETERMINATION OF VIOLATIONS:
Before a citation may be issued for any automated traffic law violation, a
determination must be made by a technician employed or contracted by the
village that, based on inspection of recorded images generated by the system,
the motor vehicle was being operated in violation of section 11-208.6 of the
code or an ordinance of the village. If the technician determines that the
vehicle entered the intersection as part of a funeral procession or in order to
yield the right of way to an emergency vehicle, a citation shall not be issued.
(Ord. 07-08-28)
11-13-6: HEARING PROCEDURES:
The registered owner of the vehicle cited in a violation notice shall have the
opportunity for a hearing in which said owner may contest the merits of the
alleged violation as provided in chapter 11 of this title. The lessee of a
vehicle cited in a violation notice likewise shall be afforded the opportunity
for a hearing of the same kind afforded the registered owner. (Ord. 07-08-28)
11-13-7: FINAL DETERMINATION OF VIOLATIONS:
A determination shall become final as provided in section
11-11-7 of this title. A determination notice, the contents of which shall
comply with the requirements of chapter 11 of this title, shall be sent
following a final determination of automated traffic law violation liability. A
determination notice shall be sent by first class United States mail, postage
prepaid, to the address of the registered owner of the cited vehicle as
recorded with the secretary or, if any notice to that address is returned as
undeliverable, to the last known address recorded in a United States post
office approved database or, under section 11-1306 of the code, to the lessee
of the cited vehicle at the last address known to the lessor of the cited
vehicle at the time of the lease or, if any notice to that address is returned
as undeliverable, to the last known address recorded in a United States post
office database. Service of the determination notice shall be deemed complete
as of the date of deposit in the United States mail. (Ord. 07-08-28)
11-13-8: PETITION FOR REVIEW:
A person owing an unpaid fine or penalty for automated traffic law violation
penalty may file a petition to set aside a final determination of such
liability within ten (10) days after mailing by the village of a determination
notice. Such a petition shall be filed by sending the same, together with any
documentation in support thereof, to the administrator by certified mail,
return receipt requested, or by personal delivery to the administrator. The
grounds for such a petition shall be limited to: a) the person not having been
the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the date the violation notice was
issued, b) the person having already paid the fine or penalty for the violation
in question, and c) excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a
hearing. A hearing on such a petition shall be held within thirty (30) days
after the filing of same. In the event that such a petition is granted upon a
showing of just cause, and the subject determination of automated traffic law
violation liability is thereby set aside, the registered owner shall be
provided with a hearing on the merits for that violation. (Ord. 07-08-28)
11-13-9: SUSPENSION NOTICE:
A suspension notice, the contents of which shall comply with the requirements
of sections 6-306.5 and 11-208.3 of the code, as amended, shall be sent to the
person liable for any fine or penalty that remains due and owing on five (5) or
more unpaid automated traffic law violations. The suspension notice shall be
sent by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the address
recorded with the secretary or, if any notice to that address is returned as
undeliverable, to the last known address recorded in a United States post
office approved database. Service of a suspension notice shall be deemed
complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail. (Ord. 07-08-28)
11-13-10: APPEAL OF SUSPENSION NOTICE:
If the administrator provides a suspension notice to a vehicle owner and
subsequently makes a certified report to the secretary, the subject vehicle
owner may challenge the accuracy of the certified report in writing. To do so,
the vehicle owner must submit to the administrator a written statement under
oath, together with any supporting documentation, establishing one of the
following grounds for challenging the accuracy of the certified report: a) that
the person was not the owner or lessee of the subject vehicle or vehicles
receiving five (5) or more automated traffic law violations on the date or
dates such violation notices were issued, or b) that the person already paid
the fines or penalties for the five (5) or more automated traffic law
violations indicated on the certified report. Such statement and supporting
documentation must be sent to the administrator by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or hand delivered to the administrator within five (5) days
after the person receives notice from the secretary that the person's driver's
license will be suspended at the end of a specified period of time unless the
secretary is presented with a notice from the village certifying that the fines
or penalties due and owing have been paid or that the inclusion of the person's
name on the certified report was in error. (Ord. 07-08-28)
11-13-11: NONAPPEARANCE PROCEDURES:
As provided in section
11-11-8 of this title, nonresidents of the village who receive violation
notices may contest the merits of the alleged automated traffic law violation
without attending a hearing by sending a signed statement, under oath, together
with any supporting documentation, to the administrator via certified mail,
return receipt requested, within ten (10) days after service of the violation
notice. Such a statement shall set forth the reasons why a finding of liability
should not be entered. The hearing officer shall rule on such a statement
within ten (10) days after receipt of same, and shall inform the nonresident of
his decision within ten (10) days thereafter. (Ord. 07-08-28)
11-13-12: PENALTY:
Unless the driver of the motor vehicle cited for an automated traffic law
violation received a uniform traffic citation from a police officer at the time
of the violation, the owner of the motor vehicle is subject to a penalty of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per violation. In the event that such penalty is not
paid within thirty (30) days after the determination of liability, a final
determination of liability will be entered and the penalty shall increase to
two hundred dollars ($200.00). If the claim is not settled prior to the
hearing, then the officer or administrator is authorized to prosecute the
violation or otherwise pursue the collection thereof pursuant to the
administrative adjudication procedure set forth herein in the original amount
of the fine. (Ord. 15-21-81)
CHAPTER 14
IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
11-14-1: Impoundment Of Motor Vehicles Used In Connection With Illegal
Activities
11-14-2: Notice
11-14-3: Preliminary Hearing
11-14-4: Posttow Hearing
11-14-5: Administrative Fee
11-14-6: Vehicle Possession
11-14-1: IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES USED IN CONNECTION WITH ILLEGAL
ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Violations Authorizing Impoundment: A motor vehicle, operated with the
permission, express or implied, of the owner of record, that is used in
connection with the following violations, shall be subject to tow and
impoundment by the Village, and the owner of record of said vehicle shall be
liable to the Village for the applicable administrative fee in addition to any
towing and storage fees, as hereinafter provided:
      1.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission or attempted
commission of any offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and forfeited
pursuant to 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-1 et seq., shall subject the
owner to an administrative fee of six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      2.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs,
intoxicating compounds, in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
501, shall subject the owner to an administrative fee of six hundred dollars
($600.00).
      3.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the
commission or attempted commission of any felony offense in violation of the
provisions of the Illinois Cannabis Control Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
550/1, shall subject the owner to an administrative fee of six hundred dollars
($600.00).
      4.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the
commission or attempted commission of any offense in violation of the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/100, shall
subject the owner to an administrative fee of six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      5.   Unlawful use of a weapon in violation of 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/24-1; aggravated discharge of a firearm in violation of 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.5; and unlawful possession of a firearm and firearm
ammunition, in violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.1, shall
subject the owner to an administrative fee of six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      6.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 6-303 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code shall subject the owner to an administrative fee of six hundred
dollars ($600.00) except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or
impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or
due to failure to comply with emission testing.
      7.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, shall
subject the owner to an administrative fee of six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      8.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's
license, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, if the
period of expiration is greater than one (1) year, shall subject the owner to
an administrative fee of six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      9.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver's license or permit, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, or operation of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit due to a person's age, shall subject the owner to an
administrative fee of six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      10.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a Circuit Clerk in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated section 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, shall subject the owner to an administrative fee of six
hundred dollars ($600.00).
      11.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 or 16A of the Criminal
Code of 1961, shall subject the owner to an administrative fee of six hundred
dollars ($600.00).
      12.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or an
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of section 12-5.5 of the Illinois
Criminal Code of 2012 (Common Carrier Recklessness), shall subject the owner,
operator, driver, or other person having personal management or control over
the motor vehicle, to an administrative fee of six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      13.   Operation or use of a bus in violation of Title 11, Chapter 15 of
the Oak Lawn Village Code, shall subject the owner, operator or driver of the
bus to an administrative fee of six hundred dollars ($600.00).
   B.   General Regulations:
      1.   This chapter shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any existing
laws pertaining to vehicle seizure, towing and impoundment, and the owner shall
be subject to these penalties in addition to any penalties that may be assessed
by a court for any criminal charges.
      2.   This chapter shall not apply if the vehicle used in the violation
was stolen at the time and the theft was reported to the appropriate police
authorities within twenty four (24) hours after the theft was discovered.
      3.   Fees for towing and storage of a vehicle under this chapter shall be
those approved by the Chief of Police for all tow companies authorized to tow
for the Police Department. (Ord. 17-15-54, 24-01-02)
11-14-2: NOTICE:
Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to tow and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police officer
shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized by the
Village. Before or at a time the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall
notify or make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or person
identifying himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any
person who is found in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
offense, of the fact of the impoundment of the vehicle and of the owner's right
to request a preliminary vehicle impoundment hearing to be conducted under
section
11-14-3 of this chapter. The police officer shall also provide notice that the
motor vehicle will remain impounded pending the completion of the hearings
provided for in sections
11-14-3 and
11-14-4 of this chapter, unless the owner of the vehicle posts with the Village
a cash bond in the amount of six hundred dollars ($600.00) and pays the accrued
towing and storage charges. (Ord. 17-15-54)
11-14-3: PRELIMINARY HEARING:
If the owner of record of a vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter desires
to appeal the impoundment, said owner must make a request for hearing within
twenty four (24) hours of the impoundment. Said request shall be in writing and
filed with the Chief of Police or his designee, who shall conduct such
preliminary hearing within twenty four (24) hours after receipt of the request,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays, or Village holidays. All interested persons shall
be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the preliminary vehicle
impoundment hearing. The formal rules of evidence will not apply at the
hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be admissible only if it is the type
commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their
affairs. If after the hearing, the Chief of Police or his designee determines
there is probable cause to believe that the vehicle is subject to impoundment
pursuant to this chapter, he shall order the continued impoundment of the
vehicle as provided in this chapter unless the owner of the vehicle posts with
the Village a cash bond in the amount of six hundred dollars ($600.00) and pays
the tower any applicable towing and storage fees. If the Chief of Police or his
designee determines that there is no such probable cause, the vehicle will be
returned without penalty or other fees. (Ord. 17-15-54)
11-14-4: POSTTOW HEARING:
Within ten (10) days after a vehicle is impounded pursuant to this chapter, the
Village shall notify either by personal service or by first class mail to the
interested party's address as registered with the Secretary of State the owner,
lessee or any lienholder of record of the date, time, and location of a posttow
hearing that will be conducted, pursuant to this section. The hearing shall be
conducted by a Hearing Officer licensed to practice law in the State of
Illinois for at least three (3) years designated by the Village Manager. All
interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the
hearing. At any time prior to the hearing date, the Hearing Officer may, at the
request of either party, direct witnesses to appear and give testimony at the
hearing. The formal rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing, and
hearsay evidence shall be admissible only if it is the type commonly relied
upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
If, after the posttow hearing, the Hearing Officer determines, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that the vehicle was used in connection with a
violation set forth in this section, the Hearing Officer shall enter a written
order finding the owner of record of the vehicle civilly liable to the Village
for an administrative fee in the amount of six hundred dollars ($600.00) and
requiring the vehicle to continue to be impounded until the owner pays the
administrative fee to the Village plus fees to the tower for the towing and
storage of the vehicle. If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing,
the Hearing Officer shall enter a default order in favor of the Village. If the
Hearing Officer finds no such violation occurred, the Hearing Officer shall
order the immediate return of the owner's vehicle or cash bond without fees.
The decision of the Hearing Officer shall be subject to judicial review in the
manner provided by law. (Ord. 17-15-54)
11-14-5: ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
If an administrative fee is imposed pursuant to this chapter, such fee shall
constitute a debt due and owing the Village. If a cash bond has been posted
pursuant to this chapter the bond shall be applied to the fee. If a vehicle has
been impounded when such a fee is imposed, the Village may seek to obtain a
judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment against the vehicles as provided
by law. Except as provided otherwise in this chapter, a vehicle shall continue
to be impounded until the fee is paid to the Village and any applicable towing
fees are paid to the tower, in which case possession of the vehicle shall be
given to the person who is legally entitled to possess the vehicle or the
vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to satisfy a judgment to enforce a
lien as provided by law. If the administrative fee and other applicable fees
are not paid within thirty five (35) days after an administrative fee is
imposed against an owner of record who defaults by failing to appear at the
posttow hearing, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of
in the manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles. In all
other cases, if the administrative fee and applicable fee are not paid within
thirty (30) days after the expiration of time at which judicial review of the
Hearing Officer's determination may be sought, or within thirty (30) days after
an action seeking judicial review has been resolved in favor of the Village,
whichever is applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be
disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed
vehicles under the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. 12-01-04)
11-14-6: VEHICLE POSSESSION:
   A.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner, lienholder,
or other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a vehicle
impounded under this chapter until the administrative fee and fees applicable
under this chapter have been paid. However, whenever a person with a lien of
record against an impounded vehicle has commenced foreclosure proceedings,
possession of the vehicle shall be given to that person if he or she agrees in
writing to refund the Village the amount of the net proceeds of any foreclosure
sale, less any amounts required to pay all lienholders of record, not to exceed
the administrative fee, plus the applicable fees.
   B.   For purposes of this chapter, the "owner of record" of a vehicle is the
record titleholder as registered with the Secretary of State of the State of
Illinois. (Ord. 12-01-04)
CHAPTER 15
UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF BUSES
SECTION:
11-15-1: Definitions
11-15-2: Prohibited Conduct
11-15-3: Penalty
11-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
BUS: Any type of commercial motor vehicle with a weight of at least 36,000
pounds, which is designed to carry, or is actually carrying, more than ten (10)
individuals and operating as a common carrier.
REGULARLY SCHEDULED SERVICE: Bus service that operates trips involving
passengers disembarking in the Village on a predictable and recurring basis,
following a schedule that is published in advance and available to the general
public, and provides service in exchange for paying a fare.
UNSCHEDULED BUS STOP: The unloading or disembarking of passengers from a bus
subject to the requirements of Section 3-35 of this code that is not operating
pursuant to and in accordance with an application approved in accordance with
that section. (Ord. 24-01-02)
11-15-2: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Unscheduled bus stops. No person, including, but not limited to, the
owner, operator, or driver of any bus shall make an unscheduled bus stop in the
Village. This section shall not apply to motor vehicles which are not subject
to Title 3, Chapter 35 of this Code.
   B.   Operation of a bus without a Village license. Except as otherwise
provided by law, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bus on any
street, place or public highway in the Village without first having obtained a
specific grant of authority to do so from the Village Board in the form of an
ordinance designating the routes, terms and conditions under which such bus may
be operated, and regulating such other matters pertaining to the bus as is
within the scope of the powers granted to the Village. (Ord. 24-01-02)
11-15-3: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of, any of
the provisions of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by
a fine of $750 for each offense. The operation of each bus contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall be considered a separate offense for each day
that the same is so operated. Additionally, any bus in violation of this
chapter shall be subject to seizure and impoundment in the manner set forth in
Title 11, Chapter 14 of this Code. Such grounds for seizure and impoundment
shall be in addition to the Impounding and Relocation of Vehicles provisions of
Section
11-5-11 of the Code. (Ord. 24-01-02)
