COUNTY CODE
of
OGLE COUNTY, ILLINOIS
1982
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-0302, passed March 18, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the County of Ogle County, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2025-0302, passed March 18, 2025. Ordinances of the
County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
County office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
Official County Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions   3
General Penalty   4
Sheriff's Department Merit Commission   5
Freedom Of Information Act   6
Americans With Disabilities (ADA) Grievance Procedure   7
State Officials And Employees Ethics Act   8
Child Support Collection Fund   9
Administrative Adjudication Of Ordinance Violations   10
Sheriff Fees   11
Emergency Management Agency   12
DIVISION 1
OFFICIAL COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
2-1-1: Title
2-1-2: Acceptance
2-1-3: Amendments
2-1-4: Code Alterations
2-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the county board, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official code of Ogle County. This code of ordinances
shall be known and cited as the OGLE COUNTY CODE, and it is hereby published by
authority of the county board and shall be kept up to date as provided in
section
2-1-3 of this division under the direction of a county official, acting for
said county board. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein
shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and division heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal document. (1982 Code)
2-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the county of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
2-2-1 of this chapter. (1982 Code)
2-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the chapter, division and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
property identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1982 Code)
2-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
county board. The county clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the county
clerk. Any person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall
make every effort to maintain this code in an up to date and efficient manner.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the county
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the county and shall be
returned to the office of the county clerk when directed so to do by order of
the county board. (1982 Code)
DIVISION 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
2-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
2-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
2-2-3: Court Proceedings
2-2-4: Severability Clause
2-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the county passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
county; and all special ordinances. (1982 Code)
2-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, services or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1982 Code)
2-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect and such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to the ordinances
in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such
provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment
announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this division shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the county herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this division be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
county under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of
adoption of this code. (1982 Code)
2-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The county board hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1982 Code)
DIVISION 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Construction Of Words
2-3-2: Definitions, General
2-3-3: Catchlines
2-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be applied to any section of this code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the county has been changed
in the content of this code to "chapter", "division", "article", "section" and/
or "paragraph" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the county's ordinances is not meant to amend the
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1982 Code)
2-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the board of Ogle County.
CODE: The county code of Ogle County, and amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The county of Ogle, state of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Ogle
County".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the county for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NEGLIGENT: The word "negligent", as well as "neglect", "negligence" and
"negligently" imports a want of such attention to the nature of probable
consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in
acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the county; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied by a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Ogle County".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of
a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, this term shall be understood
to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: This term shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When implied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: These terms may include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to
write, by his proper mark. (1982 Code)
2-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1982 Code)
DIVISION 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
2-4-1: General Penalty
2-4-2: Application Of Provisions
2-4-3: Liability Of Officers
2-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one offense which is a first violation
of that section or provision, and a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for a second violation of the same section or provision, and a fine
not to exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a third or
subsequent violation of the same section or provision. (Ord., 11-21-2006)
2-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this division shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this division
shall apply. (1982 Code)
2-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the county board to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1982
Code)
DIVISION 5
SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT MERIT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Membership, Tenure, Vacancy
2-5-2: Organization, Officers, Meetings, Records
2-5-3: Compensation And Expenses Of Members
2-5-4: Merit System Rules And Regulations
2-5-5: Administrative Powers
2-5-6: Appeal Of Commission Decision
2-5-1: MEMBERSHIP, TENURE, VACANCY:
There is hereby created and established in the county, a sheriff's department
merit commission consisting of five (5) members to be appointed by the sheriff
and approved by the county board. Of the initial appointments, one shall serve
for a term of two (2) years, one for a term of three (3) years, one for a term
of four (4) years, one for a term of five (5) years, and one for a term of six
(6) years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for terms of six (6) years.
Vacancies in any office by reason of death, resignation or removal shall be
filled by the appointment of a successor to the unexpired term in office then
remaining. No more than three (3) of the members appointed to the merit
commission may be from the same political party. (1982 Code)
2-5-2: ORGANIZATION, OFFICERS, MEETINGS, RECORDS:
   A.   As soon as practicable after appointment, the members of the merit
commission shall meet and shall organize by selecting a chairman and a
secretary from its membership.
   B.   Meetings of the merit commission shall be held upon the call of the
chairman or upon the call of two (2) members.
   C.   The merit commission shall keep and maintain a record of its meetings
and the business conducted therein in a form directed by the county board.
   D.   The merit commission is authorized to employ such clerks and technical
assistants as may be necessary to transact its business, and to fix their
compensation, subject to the approval of the county board. (1982 Code)
2-5-3: COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES OF MEMBERS:
The members of the merit commission shall receive such compensation for their
services, and reimbursement for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred as
may be fixed by resolution of the county board. However, in no event may the
amount of per diem compensation established for members of the merit commission
exceed the per diem received by members of the county board. The per diem and
mileage to be paid to merit commission members shall be established by the
county board by resolution. (1982 Code)
2-5-4: MERIT SYSTEM RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Commission Rules And Regulations: Pursuant to recognized merit
principles of public employment, the merit commission shall promulgate rules,
regulations and procedures for the operation of the merit system and shall
administer the merit system. With the exception of purely internal
administrative procedures, all rules, regulations and procedures shall be
submitted to and approved by the county board before becoming effective.
   B.   Policy Manual: The "Policy Procedures Manual" for the sheriff's
department, containing written information on duties and responsibilities of
offices, is hereby incorporated into the merit book. (1982 Code)
2-5-5: ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS:
In the administration of the merit system, the merit commission shall have the
power to secure, by its subpoena, the attendance and testimony of witnesses and
the production of books and papers, both in support of any charges heard by the
merit commission and in defense thereto. Each member shall have the power to
administer oaths. In case of neglect or refusal of any person to obey a
subpoena issued by the merit commission, any circuit judge, upon application by
the merit commission, may order such person to appear before the commission and
give testimony or produce evidence, and failure to obey such an order is
punishable by the court as contempt thereof. The powers herein contained shall
not be limited to those herein stated but shall be in addition to such powers
as may be included within the rules and regulations approved by the county
board. (1982 Code)
2-5-6: APPEAL OF COMMISSION DECISION:
The provisions of the administrative review act, approved May 8, 1948, as
amended, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto, shall apply to and govern all
proceedings for the judicial review of any order of the merit commission
removing, demoting or suspending a deputy sheriff. (1982 Code)
DIVISION 6
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
SECTION:
2-6-1: Purpose
2-6-2: Definitions
2-6-3: Person To Whom Request Is Made
2-6-4: Form And Content Of Requests
2-6-5: Time In Which To Respond
2-6-6: Materials Exempt From Disclosure
2-6-7: Display Of Information About Public Body
2-6-8: Fees
2-6-9: Inspection And Copying Of Documents
2-6-10: Appeal Procedure
2-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this division is to ensure that all public bodies within Ogle
County understand the procedures to be followed in dealing with the intake,
evaluation and response to citizen requests for public records pursuant to the
Illinois freedom of information act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/1 et seq.
(Ord., 5-16-1989)
2-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this division, the following words shall have the meaning
given herein:
FOIA: Illinois freedom of information act as enacted at 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 140/1 et seq., as hereafter amended.
PUBLIC BODY: Any legislative, executive, administrative or advisory bodies of
Ogle County.
PUBLIC RECORDS: All records, reports, forms, writings, letters, memoranda,
books, papers, maps, photographs, microfilms, cards, tapes, recordings,
electronic data processing records, recorded information, and all other
documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, having
been prepared, or having been or being used, received, possessed, or under the
control of any public body.
REQUESTOR: Any person who submits a request for public records in accordance
with this division. (Ord., 5-16-1989)
2-6-3: PERSON TO WHOM REQUEST IS MADE:
Each public body shall have one or more designated freedom of information
officer (FOIO) to whom requests for public records may be directed. The
identity of the FOIO(s) shall be displayed in the office of the public body
pursuant to section
2-6-7 of this division. (Ord., 5-16-1989)
2-6-4: FORM AND CONTENT OF REQUESTS:
Each request shall be made in writing, directly to the public body that is
responsible for the requested information. Requests may be made on FOIA request
forms or in letter form provided that the following information is provided:
   A.   The requestor's full name, address and phone number; and
   B.   A specific description of the public records being requested; and
   C.   Whether the requester wishes to visually inspect the records, or be
provided copies of the records (copies may be certified upon request), or both.
(Ord., 5-16-1989)
2-6-5: TIME IN WHICH TO RESPOND:
   A.   Within seven (7) working days, the FOIO shall respond to the requestor
in one of the following fashions:
      1.   Notice that the request has been granted including when and where a
visual inspection may be made (if requested), when and where copies of the
records may be picked up, and what, if any, fees will be due at that time.
      2.   Notice in writing that the request has been denied, stating the
reasons for the denial, the name(s) and title(s) of the person(s) responsible
for the denial, and the requestor's right to appeal to the head of the public
body.
      3.   Notice in writing that the request has been approved in part and
denied in part stating specifically which portions were approved and which
portions were denied, providing all information required under paragraph A2 of
this section.
   B.   The seven (7) working day time limit required by paragraph A of this
section may be extended for up to an additional seven (7) working days for any
of the following reasons:
      1.   The records are stored in a location other than the office of the
public body responsible for such records;
      2.   A substantial number of specific records must be collected to fill
the request;
      3.   The request is categorical and required an extensive search for the
records responsive to it;
      4.   The records have not been located in the course of a routine search
and additional searching is necessary;
      5.   The records require expert evaluation to determine if they are
exempt from disclosures under section
2-6-6 of this division, or if appropriate deletions are necessary;
      6.   Fulfilling the request within the original time limit is not
possible without unduly burdening or interfering with the operations of the
public body; or
      7.   There is a need for consultation with another public body, or with
another branch of the same public body, in which case such consultation shall
take place with all practicable speed.
   C.   Written notification of any extension of time under paragraph B of this
section shall be made to the requestor within the original seven (7) working
days from the receipt of the request, stating the reason(s) for the extension
and the date by which some action will be taken on the request, said extension
shall never be more than an additional seven (7) working days.
   D.   Categorical requests that will be unduly burdensome to the public body
may only be denied after the requestor has been notified in writing of the
reasons for the burden, and the extent to which the request will burden the
public body, and after an opportunity has been afforded to the requestor to
confer with the public body to narrow the request to manageable proportions.
   E.   Failure to respond in any manner to a written request for information
within seven (7) working days after its receipt will be considered a denial of
that request. (Ord., 5-16-1989)
2-6-6: MATERIALS EXEMPT FROM DISCLOSURE:
   A.   The following materials shall be exempt from disclosure:
      1.   Information specifically prohibited from disclosure by federal or
state law.
      2.   Information which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of
personal privacy, unless such disclosure is consented to in writing.
      3.   Investigatory records compiled for the purpose of:
         a.   State or local law enforcement; or
         b.   Internal matters of the public body; or
         c.   The Illinois legislative investigative commission.
      4.   Criminal history record information maintained by law enforcement
agencies.
      5.   Records of law enforcement and correctional agencies related to the
detection of crime or the security of the correctional institution.
      6.   Documents in which opinions are expressed, or policies or actions
are formulated.
      7.   Confidential trade secrets and commercial or financial information
obtained from a person or business.
      8.   Proposals and bids for any contract, grant or agreement until an
award or final selection is made.
      9.   Research data in the possession of the public body when disclosure
could reasonably be expected to produce private gain or public loss.
      10.   Questions, keys or data used to administer an academic, licensing
or employment examination.
      11.   Architect's and engineer's plans for building.
      12.   Minutes of closed meetings of public bodies, until such time as
said minutes are made available to the general public.
      13.   Communications between a public body and its attorney or auditor,
that would not be subject to discovery in litigation.
      14.   Technical information associated with automatic data processing
operation that, if disclosed, would jeopardize the security of the system or
the data contained therein.
      15.   Records relating to collective negotiating matters between public
bodies and their employees, with the exception of any final contracts or
agreement.
      16.   Records pertaining to the financing and marketing transactions of
the public body.
      17.   Records relating to real estate purchase negotiations until those
negotiations have been completed.
      18.   Records related to the operation of an intergovernmental risk
management association or self-insurance pool or self- administered health and
accident cooperative or pool.
      19.   Information concerning a public body's adjudication of an employee
grievance or disciplinary case, except for the final outcome.
      20.   Information related solely to the internal personnel rules and
policies of the public body.
      21.   Manuals or instructions to staff relating to establishment or
collection of liability for any state tax, or which relate to investigations by
the public body of violations of criminal law.
   B.   If a public record which is exempt under paragraph A of this section
also contains some material which is not exempt, the public body shall separate
out the nonexempt material and make it available for inspection and copying.
(Ord., 5-16-1989)
2-6-7: DISPLAY OF INFORMATION ABOUT PUBLIC BODY:
   A.   Each public body will prominently display, make available for
inspection, or send through the mail:
      1.   A brief description of itself including:
         a.   A short summary of its purpose; and
         b.   A diagram illustrating its subdivision; and
         c.   The total amount of its operating budget; and
         d.   The number and location of all of its separate offices; and
         e.   The approximate number of its full and part time employees; and
         f.   Identification of its advisory boards.
      2.   A brief description of procedures to be followed in order to request
public records including:
         a.   A directory stating the titles and addresses of those employees
designated as freedom of information officers; and
         b.   A schedule of any fees which will be charged for copying public
records.
   B.   Each public body shall maintain and make available a reasonably current
list of all types of records under its control. (Ord., 5-16-1989)
2-6-8: FEES:
   A.   Reimbursement Fee: A public body may charge reasonable fees in order to
reimburse:
      1.   The actual cost of reproducing and certifying documents; and
      2.   The costs of necessary equipment.
   B.   Labor Charge: A public body may not charge for the labor necessary to
search for and/or evaluate the requested records.
   C.   Reduction Or Waiver Of Fees: If in the view of the public body, the
furnishing of the information will primarily benefit the general public, there
may be a reduction or waiver of the required fees. (Ord., 5-16-1989)
   D.   Vital Records; Copies:
      1.   Charge: The county clerk is hereby authorized to impose an
additional two dollar ($2.00) charge for certified copies of vital records as
defined in section 1 of the vital records act, 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes
535/1 and as may hereafter be amended.
      2.   Fund Established: The treasurer for the county is hereby authorized
to establish a special fund. The vital records automation fund has been
established for deposit of the additional fee to be imposed by this subsection.
Funds placed in the vital records automation fund shall be expended solely for
equipment, material and necessary expenses incurred to help defray the cost of
implementing and maintaining a document storage system for vital records
utilizing computers and micrographics. (Ord., 12-21-1999, eff. 1-1-2000)
   E.   Recorder Automation Fund: Effective January 1, 2016, an additional six
dollar twenty cent ($6.20) fee shall be levied by the county pursuant to 55
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-5018 to offset the cost of converting the county
recorder's document storage system to computers or micrographics. (Ord., 10-16-
2001, eff. 12-1-2001; amd. Ord. O-2016-0506, 5-17-2016)
2-6-9: INSPECTION AND COPYING OF DOCUMENTS:
   A.   Unless otherwise agreed by the requestor and the public body, the
inspection of records shall take place in the main office of the public body
responsible for such records during the course of regular business hours.
   B.   An employee of the public body may be present throughout the
inspection. A requestor may be prohibited from bringing bags, briefcases or
other containers into the inspection room.
   C.   Copies of public records shall be provided to the requestor only upon
payment of any charges which are due, with the exception of materials which
fall under paragraph 2-6-8C of this division. (Ord., 5-16-1989)
2-6-10: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Any requestor who is denied access to requested public records may
appeal that denial by sending a written notice of appeal to the head of the
public body.
   B.   Upon receipt of such notice, the head of the public body shall review
the request, decide whether the requested information is required to be
released under this division, and give written notice of his/her decision to
the requestor within seven (7) working days of the receipt of the notice of
appeal.
   C.   An affirmation of the denial, or failure to act within seven (7)
working days by the head of the public body, will be deemed the end of the
requestor's administrative remedies. (Ord., 5-16-1989)
DIVISION 7
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES (ADA) GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
SECTION:
2-7-1: Applicability
2-7-2: Authority
2-7-3: Policy
2-7-4: Grievance Procedure
2-7-5: Effective Date
2-7-1: APPLICABILITY:
The purpose of this policy and procedure is to establish an efficient grievance
procedure in part from material prepared by the U.S. department of health and
human services, and the department of justice, section 504 of the
rehabilitation act of 1973 of the civil rights act of 1964, title II: section
35.107 as set forth by the Office Of Coordination And Review, P.O. Box 66118,
Civil Rights Division, U.S. Department Of Justice, Washington, D.C. 20035-6118.
(Ord., 3-16-1993)
2-7-2: AUTHORITY:
   A.   The county board, through the office of the county sheriff, shall be
responsible for receiving, reviewing and processing valid ADA grievances as may
be filed, from time to time, by individuals who wish to have a particular
policy or physical situation reviewed for ADA compliance.
   B.   The standard form, attached to ordinance 3/16/93 and on file in the
office of the county clerk, will be given to any individual who wishes to file
an ADA grievance, or if the complaint is telephoned into a county office, will
be completed by the appropriate county employee or department head, and
immediately forwarded to the office of the county sheriff for appropriate
review and action. (Ord., 3-16-1993)
2-7-3: POLICY:
   A.   It shall be the policy of the county that no otherwise qualified
disabled individual shall, solely by reason of such disability, be excluded
from the participation in, or be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to
discrimination in programs of activities offered or sponsored by Ogle County.
(Ord., 3-16-1993)
2-7-4: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Should an individual feel he or she has been inappropriately
discriminated against solely due to a disability or disability condition, that
individual has the right under the laws of the United States Of America to file
a grievance with the county, if the county is the local entity which is accused
of discriminating against said individual.
   B.   All complaints shall be made in writing, when convenient, or may be
recorded by someone other than the complaining individual if they cannot write.
Such complaints shall be filed with the office of the county sheriff.
   C.   The complaint form shall include the full name, address and phone
number of the complaining individual and briefly state the nature of the
complaint, or description of the alleged violation of the ADA regulations.
   D.   The complaint should be filed within ten (10) business days after the
complainant becomes aware of the alleged violation.
   E.   The county reserves the right under section 504, title II of the
rehabilitation act of 1973 of the civil rights act of 1964 to schedule an
investigation, as may be appropriate, following the filing of any ADA
complaint. Said investigation will be assigned by the office of the county
sheriff, affording all interested persons and/or their representatives, if any,
an opportunity to submit evidence relevant to a complaint.
   F.   Under the U.S. department of justice regulations, the county will not
process complaints from applicants for employment.
   G.   A written determination as to the validity of the complaint and a
description of the resolution, if any, shall be issued by the office of the
county sheriff and a copy forwarded to the complainant no later than sixty (60)
days after its filing.
   H.   The office of the county sheriff shall maintain all records of
complaints and resolutions, if any, for five (5) years relating to all ADA
complaints filed with the county.
   I.   The complainant may request a reconsideration of the written
determination made by the office of the county sheriff, request for same to be
filed, in writing, no later than fifteen (15) days after written determination
has been sent to the complainant.
   J.   The right of the person to a prompt and equitable resolution of the
complaint filed hereunder shall not be impaired by the person's pursuit of
other remedies such as filing of an ADA complaint with the responsible federal
department or agency. Use of this grievance procedure is not a prerequisite to
the pursuit of other remedies.
   K.   This policy and procedure shall be construed to protect the substantive
rights of interested persons, to meet appropriate due process standards and to
assure that the county complies with the ADA and implementing regulations.
(Ord., 3-16-1993)
2-7-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date of this division shall be March 16, 1993. (Ord., 3-16-1993)
DIVISION 8
STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
SECTION:
2-8-1: Definitions
2-8-2: Prohibited Political Activities
2-8-3: Gift Ban
2-8-4: Exceptions
2-8-5: Disposition Of Gifts
2-8-6: Penalties
2-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this division, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this division, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by Ogle County whether on a full time or part time
basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction and
control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work is
to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER: Ogle County, Illinois.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit toward pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
   A.   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political meeting,
political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord., 5-18-
2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
2-8-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of Ogle County in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment, or
3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal time
off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this division.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord., 5-18-2004)
2-8-3: GIFT BAN:
Except as permitted by section
2-8-4 of this division, no officer or employee, and no spouse of or immediate
family member living with any officer or employee (collectively referred to
herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit or accept any gift from
any "prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by
law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift
that violates this section. (Ord., 5-18-2004)
2-8-4: EXCEPTIONS:
Section
2-8-3 of this division is not applicable to the following:
   A.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
   B.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
   C.   Any: 1) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code or
2) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
   D.   Educational materials and missions.
   E.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
   F.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the individual
as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt,
great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandfather,
grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son- in-
law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother,
stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, and
including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the individual's
spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
   G.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: 1) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; 2)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and 3) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
   H.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or 2) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
   I.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
   J.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of this
act, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or employee
from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means any gift
given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
   K.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
   L.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any calendar
year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other. (Ord., 5-18-2004)
2-8-5: DISPOSITION OF GIFTS:
An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an immediate family member living
with the officer or employee, does not violate this division if the recipient
promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a prohibited source to
its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its value to an appropriate
charity that is exempt from income taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended, renumbered, or
succeeded. (Ord., 5-18-2004)
2-8-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
2-8-2 of this division may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
2-8-3 of this division is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   C.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this division to the local enforcement authorities, the
state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined
in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   A violation of section
2-8-2 of this division shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for Ogle County by filing in the circuit court an information, or sworn
complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to
the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of
the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt. A violation of section
2-8-3 of this division may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for Ogle County, or, if an ethics commission has been created, by the
commission through the designated administrative procedure.
   E.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
2-8-2 or
2-8-3 of this division is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord., 5-18-2004)
DIVISION 9
CHILD SUPPORT COLLECTION FUND 1
SECTION:
2-9-1: Fee And Fund Established
 
Notes
1 1. Public act 91-612.
2-9-1: FEE AND FUND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The clerk of the circuit court in and for Ogle County shall collect an
annual fee of thirty six dollars ($36.00) from the person making maintenance
and child support payments for maintaining child support records and processing
support orders to the state of Illinois KIDS system and the recording of
payments issued by the state disbursement unit.
   B.   The fees collected as authorized above shall be deposited into the
maintenance and child support collection fund of which the clerk shall be the
custodian, ex officio. The fees collected as above authorized shall be
deposited into said fund to be used by the clerk of the circuit court to
further maintenance and child support collection efforts in this office. (Ord.,
1-18-2000, eff. 1-18-2000)
DIVISION 10
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
2-10-1: Code Hearing Unit
2-10-2: Hearing Officers
2-10-3: Rules And Regulations
2-10-4: Initiating Administrative Adjudication Proceedings
2-10-5: Subpoenas
2-10-6: Election Of Remedies
2-10-7: Administrative Hearing Not Exclusive
2-10-8: Notice
2-10-9: Administrative Hearings
2-10-10: Ex Parte Disclosures
2-10-11: Posthearing Motions
2-10-12: Enforcement Of Judgment
2-10-13: Waiver, Suspension Or Reduction Of Fines
2-10-14: Violations Of Orders
2-10-15: Fines Payable To The Ogle County Treasurer
2-10-16: Review Of Final Orders
2-10-17: Additional Rules, Regulations, And Provisions
2-10-1: CODE HEARING UNIT:
   A.   Establishment; Purpose:
      1.   There is hereby created and established a code hearing unit as a
separate agency in the Ogle County government structure, as authorized by the
counties code, 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-41, and all amendments
thereto, which shall be known as the "Ogle County code hearing unit". The
hearing unit shall have the power to conduct administrative adjudication
proceedings for the county, its departments, and its officers and to enforce
provisions of this code. The establishment of the code hearing unit does not
preclude the county of Ogle from using other methods to enforce the provisions
of this code.
      2.   The stated purpose of this division is to provide for fair and
efficient enforcement of applicable and authorized county ordinances; the
definition, identification, and abatement of public nuisances; the
accumulation, disposal and transportation of garbage, refuse, and other forms
of solid waste; sanitation practices and zoning as allowed by law and directed
by ordinance, through an administrative adjudication of violations of such
county ordinances and establishing authority and procedures for collection of
unpaid fines and penalties.
   B.   Jurisdiction: The code hearing unit is authorized to establish a system
of administrative adjudications for the enforcement of all provisions of this
code, except those preempted by state law or county ordinance.
   C.   Combined Code Hearing Unit Authorized: The code hearing unit may be
combined with any adjacent unit of local government to create a combined code
hearing unit for the efficient and just adjudication of all ordinance violation
cases for the various units of local government. (Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-
2008)
2-10-2: HEARING OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment: The chairman of the county board, with the advice and
consent of the county board, shall appoint one or more hearing officers who
shall report to the executive committee of the Ogle County board. A hearing
officer may not be a code enforcement officer or other law enforcement officer.
The director of the code hearing unit shall be designated by the county board
chairman, and shall have the power to create and amend regulations for the fair
and efficient conduct of administrative hearings pursuant to paragraph B of
this section.
   B.   Powers And Duties: Hearing officers shall have the following powers:
      1.   All powers authorized by 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-41005 et
seq., now in effect or as hereafter amended including, but not necessarily
limited to, the following:
         a.   To preside at administrative hearings called to determine whether
a code violation exists;
         b.   To hear testimony and accept evidence from the code enforcement
officer, the respondent, and all interested parties relevant to the existence
of a code violation;
         c.   To preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
the exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
         d.   To issue and sign written findings and a decision and order
stating whether a code violation exists; and
         e.   To impose penalties consistent with applicable code provisions
and to assess costs reasonably related to instituting the proceedings upon
finding the respondent liable for the charged violation. In no event, however,
shall the hearing officer have the authority to impose a penalty of
incarceration;
      2.   Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of issues;
      3.   Administer oaths and affirmations;
      4.   Rule upon motions, objections and the admissibility of evidence;
      5.   Subject to the provisions of this division, subpoena relevant
witnesses and the production of relevant documents, records or other
information;
      6.   Exercise all powers and duties necessary and proper to the
administration of fair hearings.
   C.   Training Requirements: Prior to conducting an administrative
adjudication proceeding, a hearing officer may be required to complete a
training program, which may include the following:
      1.   Instruction on the Ogle County regulations for conduct of
administrative hearings;
      2.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations which the
hearing officer will adjudicate;
      3.   Observation of Ogle County or another unit of local government's
administrative hearings; and
      4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders. (Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
2-10-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Available For Public Inspection: The rules and regulations promulgated
for the conduct of administrative hearings shall be printed and kept on file in
the office of the county clerk where they shall be available to the public for
inspection and copying during normal business hours.
   B.   Order And Other Pleading Forms: The planning and zoning administrator,
animal control department administrator, director of the solid waste management
department, and the administrator of the health department shall have the
authority to create and require the use of preprinted order and related
pleading forms in the hearing process. (Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
2-10-4: INITIATING ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEEDINGS:
Code enforcement officers of the county may initiate administrative
adjudication proceedings with the code hearing unit by forwarding a copy of a
notice of violation or a notice of hearing, which has been properly served
pursuant to section
2-10-8 of this division, to the code hearing unit.
   A.   When a code enforcement officer observes a code violation, the officer
shall note the violation on a violation notice and report form, indicating the
following:
         The name and address of the respondent, if known;
         The type and nature of the violation;
         The date and time the violation was observed;
         The names of witnesses to the violation;
         The address of the location or property where the violation is
observed; and
         The tax identification number of the subject parcel of land.
   B.   The violation notice and report form shall contain a file number and a
hearing date noted by the code enforcement officer in the blank spaces provided
for that purpose on the form. The violation notice and report shall state that
failure to appear at the hearing on the date indicated may result in a
determination of liability for the cited violation and the imposition of fines
and assessment of costs as provided by the applicable county ordinance. The
violation notice and report shall also state that upon a determination of
liability and the exhaustion of or failure to exhaust procedures for judicial
review, any unpaid fines or costs imposed will constitute a debt due and owed
to the county 1 . (Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/5-41020.
2-10-5: SUBPOENAS 1 :
   A.   The hearing officer may issue a subpoena only if the hearing officer
determines that the testimony of the witnesses or the documents or items sought
by the subpoena are necessary to present evidence that is:
      1.   Relevant to the case; and
      2.   Relates to a contested issue in the case.
   B.   A subpoena issued under this chapter shall identify:
      1.   The person to whom it is directed;
      2.   The documents or other items sought by the subpoena, if any;
      3.   The date for appearance of the witnesses and the production of the
documents or other items described in the subpoena;
      4.   The time for the appearance of the witnesses and the production of
the documents or other items described in the subpoena;
      5.   The place for the appearance of the witnesses and the production of
the documents or other items described in the subpoena.
   C.   In no event shall the date identified for the appearance of the
witnesses or the production of the documents or other items be less than seven
(7) days after the service of the subpoena. (Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
 
Notes
1 2. 55 ILCS 5/5-41025(a).
2-10-6: ELECTION OF REMEDIES:
In no case may the code hearing unit conduct an administrative adjudication
proceeding for an alleged violation of this code where the requested remedy is
a punishment of imprisonment. Nothing in this division, however, shall preclude
the county from seeking the remedy of imprisonment in a court of law, including
imprisonment for failure to comply with the order of a hearing officer. (Ord.,
7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
2-10-7: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division, neither the authority of
the code hearing unit to conduct administrative adjudication procedures nor the
initiation of such procedures under this division shall preclude the county
from seeking remedies for code violations through the use of any other
administrative procedures or court proceeding. (Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-
2008)
2-10-8: NOTICE 1 :
Notice shall be as provided by state law. A copy of the violation notice and
report form shall be served on the respondent either personally or by first
class mail, postage prepaid, sent to the address of the respondent. If the name
of the respondent property owner cannot be ascertained or if service on the
respondent cannot be made by mail, service may be made on the respondent
property owner by posting, not less than twenty (20) days before the hearing is
scheduled, a copy of the violation notice and report form in a prominent place
on the property where the violation is found. (Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/5-41020(c).
2-10-9: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   A.   Opportunity For Hearing: Any administrative proceeding conducted by the
office of administrative adjudication shall afford the parties an opportunity
for a hearing before an administrative law officer.
   B.   Written Appearance: An attorney who appears on behalf of any person
shall file with the hearing officer a written appearance on a form provided by
the code hearing unit for that purpose.
   C.   Presentation Of Case: The case for the county may be presented by the
code enforcement officer or by the state's attorney. In no event shall the case
for the county be presented by an employee of the code hearing unit; provided,
however, that documentary evidence, including the notice of violation, which
has been prepared by another department or office of the county, may be
presented at the hearing by the hearing officer.
   D.   Continuances: The hearing officer may grant continuances only upon a
finding of good cause.
   E.   Testimony: All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
   F.   Subpoenas: The hearing officer may issue subpoenas to secure the
attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and production of relevant
documents. Issuance of subpoenas shall be subject to the restrictions contained
in this division.
   G.   Rules Of Evidence: The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not
apply to the conduct of the hearing. Evidence, including hearsay, may be
admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent
persons in the conduct of their affairs.
   H.   Proof By Preponderance Of Evidence: No violation may be established
except upon proof by a preponderance of the evidence; provided, however, that a
violation notice, or a copy thereof, issued and signed in accordance with 55
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-41035 (or succeeding state law) shall be prima
facie evidence of the correctness of the facts contained therein.
   I.   Cross Examination: Upon timely request of any party to a proceeding,
any person, who the hearing officer determines may reasonably be expected to
provide testimony which is material and which does not constitute a needless
presentation of cumulative evidence, shall be made available for cross
examination prior to a final determination of liability.
   J.   Record: The record of all hearings before a hearing officer shall
include:
      1.   All documents presented at the hearing;
      2.   A copy of the notice of the violation or notice of the hearing; and
      3.   A copy of the findings and decisions of the hearing officer.
   K.   Record Medium: The record of a hearing before a hearing officer shall
include a record of the testimony presented at the hearing, which may be by
means of a tape or digital recording, transcription or other appropriate means.
   L.   Determination: At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer
shall make a determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing as to whether a code violation exists. The determination shall be in
writing and shall be designated as the hearing officer's findings, decision and
order. The findings, decision and order shall include the hearing officer's
findings of fact, a determination of whether a code violation exists based on
the findings of fact, and an order imposing a fine or other penalty, directing
the respondent to correct the violation, or dismissing the case if the
violation is not proved. If the hearing officer determines that the respondent
is liable for the cited violation, the hearing officer shall enter an order
imposing sanctions that are provided in this code for the violations proved,
including the imposition of fines and in addition may order the recovery of the
costs of the proceedings. Costs may be recovered in the same manner as fines
and penalties. A copy of the findings, decision and order shall be served by
personal service or by any method provided for service of the violation notice
and report form under this chapter.
   M.   Judicial Review: In the issuance of a final determination of liability,
a hearing officer shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to seek
judicial review of the final determination.
   N.   Default:
      1.   If at the time set for a hearing the recipient of a notice of
violation or a notice of hearing, or the recipient's attorney of record, fails
to appear, the hearing officer may find the recipient in default and proceed
with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of a code
violation and conclude with a finding, decision, and order. A copy of the order
of default shall be served in any manner permitted under this division.
      2.   Within twenty one (21) calendar days from the issuance of an order
of default, a recipient of a notice of violation or a notice of hearing who has
been found to be in default may petition the hearing officer to set aside the
determination and set a new hearing date on the basis that the failure to
appear at the hearing was for good cause. If the petition is granted, the
hearing officer shall serve notice of the new hearing date upon the petitioner
in any manner permitted by this division no less than seven (7) calendar days
prior to the hearing date. (Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
2-10-10: EX PARTE DISCLOSURES:
The county hereby adopts and incorporates canon 3(A)(6) of the "Code Of Conduct
For Administrative Law Officers". Therefore, hearing officers and other
personnel of the code hearing unit are required to refrain from public comment
about a pending or impending proceeding before the code hearing unit. (Ord., 7-
15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
2-10-11: POSTHEARING MOTIONS:
There shall be no posthearing motion practice before the code hearing unit.
Appeals or review of final orders shall be governed by section
2-10-16 of this division. (Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
2-10-12: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT:
   A.   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed by a hearing officer's order
and any expenses incurred by the county to enforce the order, including, but
not limited to, attorney fees, court costs, and costs related to property
demolition or foreclosure, that remain unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review of a hearing officer's final determination
of liability for a code violation shall be a debt due and owing the county and,
as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
   B.   In order to ensure that code violations are remedied or fines are paid
in a timely manner, a hearing officer, upon issuing a final determination of
liability, may require a code violator to post with the county a compliance
bond or, as appropriate, to consent to the granting and recording of a lien
against titled property. Bonds and liens shall be approved by the Ogle County
state's attorney as to form and amount.
      1.   The order to correct a code violation and the sanctions imposed by
the hearing officer against a respondent property owner as the result of a
finding of a code violation shall attach to the property, subject to the
interests of all lienholders of record, as well as to the owner of the
property, so that the owner cannot avoid the finding of a code violation
against the owner by conveying or transferring the property to another. Any
subsequent transferee or owner of property takes the property subject to the
findings, decision, and order of a hearing officer if a notice consisting of a
copy of the order to correct a code violation and imposing any sanctions and
costs, if applicable, and a description of the real estate affected that is
sufficient to identify the real estate has been filed in the office of the Ogle
County recorder by the county prior to the transfer or conveyance to the
subsequent transferee or owner.
      2.   Whenever it is necessary for the county to make repair or otherwise
expend funds to a code violation for which a bond was posted, or whenever fines
or costs remain unpaid after a code violator has exhausted or failed to exhaust
judicial review procedures, the hearing officer may, after giving the parties
notice and an opportunity to be heard, issue an order permitting the county to
draw against the bond in an appropriate amount, or to foreclose the lien. The
hearing officer shall order the bond or the titled property or proceeds from
the titled property, less the costs incurred by the county, returned to the
code violator upon proof of compliance with the applicable code provisions and
the payment of the applicable fines or costs. (Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
2-10-13: WAIVER, SUSPENSION OR REDUCTION OF FINES:
In instances where this code calls for the imposition of a mandatory minimum
fine upon a finding of liability by a hearing officer, a hearing officer may
not waive, suspend or reduce the imposition of said mandatory minimum fine.
(Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
2-10-14: VIOLATIONS OF ORDERS:
Any person, having received notice and an opportunity for a hearing as provided
in this code, who knowingly fails to comply with an order issued by a hearing
officer under this division, including the issuance of a subpoena, shall, if
the order is not stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction prior to its
effective date, be guilty of contempt. Contempt shall be punishable by a fine
not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense. Each day that the violation continues shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense. In a prosecution under this
section, it shall not be a defense that a person came into compliance with an
order, sought judicial review of it, or made efforts to comply with an order
subsequent to its effective date. (Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
2-10-15: FINES PAYABLE TO THE OGLE COUNTY TREASURER:
All fines and other monies paid to the county of Ogle in accordance with this
division shall be remitted to the appropriate enforcement agency (Ogle County
animal control department, health department, planning and zoning department,
or solid waste management department) for deposit to the Ogle County general
fund. (Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
2-10-16: REVIEW OF FINAL ORDERS:
   A.   Upon becoming final, an order of a hearing officer shall be subject to
review in the circuit court of Ogle County under the applicable avenue of
appeal.
   B.   In general, appeals of final orders for violations of this code's
provisions are governed by the Illinois administrative review act 1 . (Ord., 7-
15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
2-10-17: ADDITIONAL RULES, REGULATIONS, AND PROVISIONS:
The county board may adopt any other necessary and proper rules, regulations,
or provisions to carry into effect this division and the powers granted and
purposes stated in the county's code, 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-41.
(Ord., 7-15-2008, eff. 7-15-2008)
DIVISION 11
SHERIFF FEES
SECTION:
2-11-1: Title
2-11-2: Purpose
2-11-3: Increased Fees
2-11-1: TITLE:
This division shall be known, cited and referred to as the INCREASED SHERIFF
FEES ORDINANCE OF OGLE COUNTY. (Ord. 2011-1007, 10-18-2011, eff. 12-1-2011)
2-11-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this division is to defray the cost associated with the Sheriff
providing certain services. (Ord. 2011-1007, 10-18-2011, eff. 12-1-2011)
2-11-3: INCREASED FEES:
Subject to the provisions of this division, the Sheriff shall charge fees
authorized, set, or established by statute or ordinance, now existing or as
amended or passed from time to time, including those specified in 55 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-5001. (Ord. 2011-1007, 10-18-2011, eff. 12-1-2011)
   A.   Increased Fees: In addition to fees authorized or created by statute or
other ordinance, the Sheriff shall charge increased fees for the following
services and, excluding mileage fees, in the respective amounts:
Accident reports                            $ 30.00
Arrest warrant                              75.00
Attending court with prisoner               24.00
Civil process and return fee                60.00
Escort inmate to medical/dental (outside of 49.00
jail)
Failure to appear warrant fee               75.00
Inmate sickcall (doctor visit)              48.00
Inmate sickcall (nurse visit)               35.00
Stand by fee (not Sheriff sales)            $161.73 per hour (each deputy)
Take bond fee                               $45.00
Weekend service (per weekend)               28.00
Work release (per night)                    24.00
 
(Ord. 2011-1007, 10-18-2011, eff. 12-1-2011; amd. Res. R-2019-0506, 5-21-2019)
   B.   Mileage Fees: Subject to any limitations contained in 55 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-5001, mileage fees shall be assessed in addition to other
fees under this section, as well as other fees authorized or created by statute
or ordinance.
Mileage fees shall be assessed based upon the township in which service is made
or attempted, and shall be set in the following amounts:
Township Mileage Fee
Township              Mileage Fee
#001 Sheriff's office $ 0.00
#005 Brookville       20.00
#010 Buffalo          15.00
#015 Byron            15.00
#020 Dement           25.00
#025 Eagle Point      15.00
#030 Flagg            20.00
#035 Forreston        25.00
#040 Grand Detour     10.00
#045 Lafayette        15.00
#050 Leaf River       15.00
#055 Lincoln          15.00
#060 Lynnville        20.00
#065 Marion           18.00
#070 Maryland         15.00
#075 Monroe           25.00
#080 Mt. Morris       7.00
#085 Nashua           7.00
#090 Oregon           1.00
#095 Pine Creek       10.00
#100 Pine Rock        10.00
#105 Rockvale         7.00
#110 Scott            25.00
#115 Taylor           12.00
#120 White Rock       15.00
#125 Woosung          20.00
 
   C.   Additional Service Fee: The Sheriff is authorized to charge an
additional service fee of forty five dollars ($45.00) for each additional
service at the same address.
   D.   Other Fees: Nothing in this division invalidates or prohibits the
Sheriff from charging other fees set by other statute or ordinance. (Ord. 2011-
1007, 10-18-2011, eff. 12-1-2011)
DIVISION 12
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2-12-1: Establishment; Purposes; Membership; Statutory Authority
2-12-2: Limitations
2-12-3: Definitions
2-12-4: Functions; Statutory Responsibilities
2-12-5: EMA Director; Office
2-12-6: Compensation; State Reimbursement
2-12-7: Local Disaster Declarations
2-12-8: Testing Of Disaster Warning Devices
2-12-9: Mutual Aid Between Political Subdivisions
2-12-10: Immunity
2-12-11: Authority To Accept Services, Gifts, Grants Or Loans
2-12-12: Orders; Rules And Regulations
2-12-13: Utilization Of Existing Agency, Facilities, And Personnel
2-12-14: Oath
2-12-15: No Private Liability
2-12-16: Prohibition Of Political Activity
2-12-17: Severability
2-12-1: ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSES; MEMBERSHIP; STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
   A.   There is hereby created within the county governmental organization an
entity to be known as the emergency management agency, hereinafter referred to
as the EMA. This entity shall be responsible for the coordination of all
emergency management programs within its jurisdiction and with private
organizations, other political subdivisions, and the state and federal
governments in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois emergency
management agency act 1 , hereinafter "the act".
   B.   The purpose of the EMA shall be the coordination of emergency services
functions which may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize, repair and
alleviate injury and damage resulting from any natural or technological causes.
   C.   The EMA shall consist of the director and such additional members as
may be selected by the director and approved by the county board.
   D.   All emergency services functions of the EMA shall at all times be in
accordance with the provisions of the act and all rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder. (Ord. O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305.
2-12-2: LIMITATIONS:
Nothing in this division shall be construed to:
   A.   Interfere with the course or conduct of a labor dispute, except that
actions otherwise authorized by this division or other laws may be taken when
necessary to mitigate imminent or existing danger to public health or safety;
   B.   Interfere with dissemination of news or comment of public affairs; but
any communications facility or organization (including, but not limited to,
radio and television stations, wire services, and newspapers) may be requested
to transmit or print public service messages furnishing information or
instructions in connection with a disaster;
   C.   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting forces, units of the armed forces of the United States, or of any
personnel thereof, when on active duty; but state and political subdivision
emergency operations plans shall place reliance upon the forces available for
performance of functions related to emergency management;
   D.   Limit, modify, or abridge the authority of the governor to proclaim
martial law or exercise any other powers vested in the governor under the
constitution, statutes, or common law of this state, independent of or in
conjunction with any provisions of this act; limit any home rule unit; or
prohibit any contract or association pursuant to article VII, section 10 of the
Illinois constitution. (Ord. O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
2-12-3: DEFINITIONS:
DIRECTOR: The staff assistant to the principal executive officer of a political
subdivision with the duty of coordinating the emergency management programs and
response of that political subdivision.
DISASTER: An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or technological cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods
of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation, critical shortages of
essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot, or hostile military or
paramilitary action.
DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE: A planned event designed specifically to simulate
an actual disaster which will provide emergency operations training for
emergency response personnel. Actual response by EMA volunteers to local
emergency situations not qualifying as disasters, as defined in this section,
is considered a disaster training exercise. Provided, however, that performance
of the usual and customary emergency functions of a political subdivision
(e.g., police, fire or emergency medical services) is not included within this
definition of a disaster training exercise.
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: The efforts of the state and the political subdivisions
to develop, plan, analyze, conduct, implement and maintain programs for
disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery.
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY: The agency established by ordinance within a
political subdivision to coordinate the emergency management program within
that political subdivision and with private organizations, other political
subdivisions, and the state and federal governments.
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN: The written plan of the state and political
subdivisions describing the organization, mission, and functions of the
government and supporting services for responding to and recovering from
disasters.
EMERGENCY SERVICES: The coordination of such functions by the state and its
political subdivisions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, as may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize,
repair and alleviate injury and damage resulting from any natural or
technological causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting
services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering,
warning services, communications, radiological, chemical and other special
weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken or threatened areas,
emergency assigned functions of plant protection, temporary restoration of
public utility services and other functions related to civilian protection,
together with all other activities necessary or incidental to protecting life
or property.
ILLINOIS EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY OR IEMA: The agency established by this
act within the executive branch of state government responsible for
coordination of the overall emergency management program of the state and with
private organizations, political subdivisions and the federal government.
MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM: The utilization of personnel to be dispatched by the
governor or, if the governor so authorizes the director, by the director to
supplement local political subdivisions for emergency management programs in
response to a disaster.
MUNICIPALITY: Any city, village or incorporated town.
POLITICAL SUBDIVISION: Any county, city, village, incorporated town or township
if the township is in a county having a population of more than two million
(2,000,000).
PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER: Chairman of the county board, supervisor of a
township if the township is in a county having a population of more than two
million (2,000,000), mayor of a city or incorporated town, president of a
village, or, in their absence or disability, the interim successor as
established pursuant to section 7 of the emergency interim executive succession
act. (Ord. O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
2-12-4: FUNCTIONS; STATUTORY RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Each county shall maintain an EMA which has jurisdiction over and
serves the entire county, except as otherwise provided in the act.
   B.   The county EMA shall not have jurisdiction within a political
subdivision that has its own emergency services and disaster agency, but shall
cooperate with the emergency services and disaster agency of a city, village or
incorporated town within the county's borders.
   C.   The county EMA shall work with the liaison appointed by each
municipality within its jurisdiction which is not required to and does not have
an emergency services and disaster agency in order to facilitate the
cooperation and protection of that municipality with the county EMA in which it
is located in the work of disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and
recovery.
   D.   The principal executive officer of the county shall notify the Illinois
emergency management agency of the manner in which the political subdivision is
providing or securing emergency management, identify the executive head of the
EMA and furnish additional information relating thereto as the Illinois
emergency management agency requires.
   E.   The EMA shall prepare and keep current an emergency operations plan for
its geographic boundaries. It shall be submitted to the IEMA for review and
approval, in accordance with paragraph g of section 10 of the act.
   F.   The EMA shall prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials in
written form a clear and complete statement of the emergency responsibilities
of all local departments and officials and of the disaster chain of command.
   G.   The EMA shall coordinate emergency management functions within the
territorial limits of the political subdivision within which it is organized as
are prescribed in and by the state emergency operations plan and programs,
orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Illinois emergency
management agency, and, in addition, shall conduct such functions outside of
those territorial limits as may be required pursuant to such mutual aid
agreements and compacts as are entered into under subparagraph 5 of paragraph c
of section 6 of the act.
   H.   The county, upon advice from the EMA director, may enter into contracts
and incur obligations necessary to place it in a position effectively to combat
such disasters in order to protect the health and safety of persons and to
protect property, and to provide emergency assistance to victims of those
disasters. If such a disaster occurs, the county may exercise the powers vested
under this section in the light of exigencies of the disaster and, excepting
mandatory constitutional requirements, without regard to the procedures and
formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of public
work, entering into contracts, the incurring of obligations, the employment of
temporary workers, the rental of equipment, the purchase of supplies and
materials, and the appropriation, expenditure, and disposition of public funds
and property.
   I.   The EMA personnel who, while engaged in a disaster or disaster training
exercise, suffer disease, injury or death, shall, for the purposes of benefits
under the workers' compensation act or workers' occupational diseases act only,
be deemed to be employees of the state, if: 1) the claimant is duly qualified
and enrolled (sworn in) as a volunteer of the Illinois emergency management
agency or an emergency management agency accredited by the Illinois emergency
management agency; and 2) if the claimant was participating in an actual
disaster as defined in paragraph (e) of section 4 of the act or the exercise
participated in was specifically and expressly approved by the Illinois
emergency management agency. The Illinois emergency management agency shall use
the same criteria for approving an exercise and utilizing state volunteers as
required for any political subdivision. The computation of benefits payable
under either of those acts shall be based on the income commensurate with
comparable state employees doing the same type work or income from the person's
regular employment, whichever is greater.
   J.   Prior to conducting a disaster training exercise, the principal
executive officer of the county or his designee shall provide area media with
written notification of the disaster training exercise. Such notification shall
indicate that information relating to the disaster training exercise shall not
be released to the public until the commencement of the exercise. The
notification shall also contain a request that the notice be so posted to
ensure that all relevant media personnel are advised of the disaster training
exercise before it begins. During the conduct of such disaster training
exercise, all messages, two-way radio communications, briefings, status
reports, news releases, and other oral or written communications shall begin
and end with the following statement:
      This is an exercise message.
(Ord. O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
2-12-5: EMA DIRECTOR; OFFICE:
   A.   The EMA shall have a director who shall be appointed by the principal
executive officer of the county in the same manner as are the heads of regular
governmental departments.
   B.   The EMA director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the EMA, subject to the direction and
control of the principal executive officer.
   C.   The EMA shall have an office and the county is authorized to designate
space in a county building, or elsewhere, as may be provided for the EMA. (Ord.
O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
2-12-6: COMPENSATION; STATE REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   EMA members who are paid employees or officers of the county, if called
for training by the state director, shall receive for the time spent in such
training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held; members who
are not such county employees or officers shall receive for such training such
compensation as may be established by the county board.
   B.   The state treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund
any reimbursement by the state to the county for expenses incident to training
members of the EMA prescribed by the state director, compensation for services
and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving outside the
county in response to a call by the governor or state director, as provided by
law, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to EMA activities
as provided by law. (Ord. O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
2-12-7: LOCAL DISASTER DECLARATIONS:
   A.   A local disaster may be declared only by the principal executive
officer of the county, or by the principal executive officer's interim
emergency successor, as provided in section 7 of the emergency interim
executive succession act 1 . It shall not be continued or renewed for a period
in excess of seven (7) days except by or with the consent of the governing
board of the county. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or
terminating a local disaster shall be given prompt and general publicity and
shall be filed promptly with the county clerk, township clerk, or the municipal
clerk, as the case may be, in the area to which it applies.
   B.   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster is to activate the
emergency operations plan of the county and to authorize the furnishing of aid
and assistance thereunder. (Ord. O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 275 et seq.
2-12-8: TESTING OF DISASTER WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   The EMA shall be allowed to test disaster warning devices including
outdoor warning sirens on the first Tuesday of each month at ten o'clock (10:
00) A.M.
   B.   The EMA may also test disaster warning devices including outdoor
warning sirens during disaster training exercises that are specifically and
expressly approved in advance by the Illinois emergency management agency.
(Ord. O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
2-12-9: MUTUAL AID BETWEEN POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   The EMA director may, in collaboration with other public agencies
within his immediate vicinity, develop or cause to be developed mutual aid
arrangements with other political subdivisions within this state for reciprocal
disaster response and recovery assistance in case a disaster is too great to be
dealt with unassisted. Such mutual aid shall not, however, be effective unless
and until approved by each of such political subdivisions. Such arrangements
shall be consistent with the state emergency operations plan and state
emergency management program, and, in the event of such a disaster as described
in section 4 of the act, it shall be the duty of the EMA to render assistance
in accordance with the provisions of such mutual aid arrangements.
   B.   The EMA director may, subject to the approval of the director of the
Illinois emergency management agency, assist in the negotiation of mutual aid
agreements between this and other states. (Ord. O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
2-12-10: IMMUNITY:
Neither the state, nor any political subdivision of the state, nor, except in
cases of negligence or wilful misconduct, the governor, the director, the
principal executive officer of a political subdivision, nor the agents,
employees, or representatives of any of them, engaged in any emergency
management response or recovery activities, while complying with or attempting
to comply with the act or any rule or regulations promulgated pursuant to the
act, are liable for the death of or any injury to persons, or damage to
property, as a result of such activity. This section does not, however, apply
to political subdivisions and principal executive officers required to maintain
emergency services and disaster agencies that are not in compliance with
section 10 of the act, notwithstanding provisions of any other laws. This
section does not, however, affect the right of any person to receive benefits
to which that person would otherwise be entitled under this act under the
workers' compensation act or the workers' occupational diseases act, or under
any pension law, and this section does not affect the right of any such person
to receive any benefits or compensation under any act of congress. (Ord. O-
2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
2-12-11: AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SERVICES, GIFTS, GRANTS OR LOANS:
   A.   Whenever the federal government or any agency or officer thereof or
whenever any person, firm or corporation shall offer to the county services,
equipment, supplies, materials, or funds by way of gift or grant, for purposes
of emergency management, the county, acting through the principal executive
officer, may accept such offer and, upon such acceptance, may authorize an
officer of the county to receive such services, equipment, supplies, materials
or funds on behalf of the county.
   B.   The county, acting through the principal executive officer, shall have
the authority to establish a special fund if needed to accept such gifts,
grants or loans. The establishment of such a special fund shall be in
accordance with all county ordinances relating to this subject matter and the
laws of the state of Illinois. All services, gifts, grants or loans accepted
pursuant to this section shall be subject to county auditing procedures. (Ord.
O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
2-12-12: ORDERS; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The county board shall have the authority to promulgate orders, rules
and regulations upon the advice of the EMA director for the purpose of
emergency management and in times of disaster.
   B.   The EMA shall execute and enforce such orders, rules and regulations as
may be made by the governor under the authority of the act. The EMA shall have
available for inspection at its office all orders, rules and regulations made
by the governor, or under the governor's authority, and which have been
provided by the Illinois emergency management agency. (Ord. O-2015-0505, 5-19-
2015)
2-12-13: UTILIZATION OF EXISTING AGENCY, FACILITIES, AND PERSONNEL:
   A.   The EMA acting through its principal executive officer may utilize the
services, equipment, supplies, and facilities of existing departments, offices
and agencies within its jurisdiction to the maximum extent practical, and the
officers and personnel of all such departments, offices and agencies are
directed, upon request, to cooperate with and extend such services and
facilities as may be needed. (Ord. O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
2-12-14: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the county EMA organization
shall, before entering upon that person's duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the EMA director:
   I,                , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been, a member of any
political party or organization that advocates, the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that, during
such time I am affiliated with the (name of political subdivision), I will not
advocate or become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence.
(Ord. O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
2-12-15: NO PRIVATE LIABILITY:
   A.   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants a license or privilege, or
otherwise permits the designation or use of the whole or any part or parts of
such real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an
actual or impending disaster, or a disaster training exercise, together with
his successors in interest, if any, shall not be civilly liable for negligently
causing the death of, or injury to, any person on or about such real estate or
premises under such license, privilege or other permission, or for negligently
causing loss of, or damage to, the property of such person.
   B.   Any private person, firm or corporation and employees and agents of
such person, firm or corporation in the performance of a contract with and
under the direction of the county under the provisions of the act shall not be
civilly liable for causing the death of, or injury to, any person or damage to
any property except in the event of wilful misconduct.
   C.   Any private person, firm or corporation, and any employee or agent of
such person, firm or corporation, who renders assistance or advice at the
request of the county under the act during an actual or impending disaster,
shall not be civilly liable for causing the death of, or injury to, any person
or damage to any property except in the event of wilful misconduct. (Ord. O-
2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
2-12-16: PROHIBITION OF POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
The EMA established by this division shall not be employed, directly or
indirectly, by any person for political purposes. (Ord. O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
2-12-17: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this division after its effective date is held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect other provisions which shall be given effect
without the invalid provision, and to this end the provisions of this division
are severable, unless otherwise provided by law. (Ord. O-2015-0505, 5-19-2015)
CHAPTER 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
Licensing Regulations   1
Definitions   1A
Licensing Administration And Enforcement   1B
License Requirements, Issuance Procedure   1C
Licensee Requirements   1D
Liquor Regulations   2
Definitions   2A
Administration And Enforcement   2B
Licensing Procedure   2C
Conduct Restrictions Of Licensee   2D
Dance Hall Regulations (Rep. by Ord., 5-17-1988)   3
Mass Gatherings   4
CATV Franchise   5
Landfill Operations   6
False Alarms   7
Door To Door Solicitation   8
DIVISION 1
LICENSING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
4-1A-1: General Definitions
4-1A-1: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this division, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
BUSINESS: All kinds of vocations, occupations, professions, enterprises,
establishments, and all other kinds of organizations which are in the business
of providing entertainment or recreation, together with all devices, machines,
vehicles and appurtenances used therein, any of which are conducted for private
profit, or benefit, either directly or indirectly, within the boundaries of
this county but outside the limits of any cities, villages or other
incorporated areas.
COUNTY: Ogle County, Illinois.
COUNTY BOARD: The county board of Ogle County, Illinois.
COUNTY LICENSE OFFICER OR LICENSE OFFICER: The liquor control commission of the
county board of Ogle County.
LICENSE OR LICENSEE: As used generally herein, these terms shall include
respectively the words "permit" or "permittee", or the holder for any use or
period of time of any similar privilege, wherever relevant to any provision of
this division or other law or ordinance.
PERSON: Includes any individual natural persons, partnerships, joint
adventures, societies, associations, clubs, trustee, or corporations; or any
officers, agents, employees, factors, or any kind of personal representatives
of any thereof, in any capacity, acting either for himself, or for any other
person, under either personal appointment or pursuant to law.
PREMISES: All lands, structures, places, and also the equipment and
appurtenances connected or used therewith in any business, and also any
personal property which is either affixed to, or is otherwise used in
connection with any such business conducted on such premises. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE B. LICENSING ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
4-1B-1: Title And Scope
4-1B-2: County License Officer Provisions
4-1B-3: Inspections
4-1B-4: Provisional Order For Violations
4-1B-5: Final Order For Violations
4-1B-6: Suspension And Revocation Of Licenses
4-1B-7: Summary Action; Closure Of Business
4-1B-8: Special Hearing On Summary Action
4-1B-9: Appeal, Hearing Provided
4-1B-10: Violations, Liability
4-1B-11: Violations, Penalties
4-1B-1: TITLE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Short Title: This division shall be known and may be cited as the
GENERAL LICENSING ORDINANCE OF OGLE COUNTY, ILLINOIS.
   B.   Scope: It is not intended by this division to repeal, abrogate, annul
or in any way impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or
ordinances, except those specifically repealed by this division. Where this
division imposes a greater restriction upon persons, premises or personal
property than is imposed or required by such existing provisions of law,
ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions of this division shall control.
(1982 Code)
4-1B-2: COUNTY LICENSE OFFICER PROVISIONS:
   A.   Issue Licenses: The county license officer shall collect all
application fees and all license fees and shall issue licenses in the name of
the county to all persons qualified under the provisions of this division.
(Ord., 3-22-2006)
   B.   Make Rules And Adopt Forms: He shall promulgate, with the approval of
the county board, and enforce all reasonable rules and regulations necessary to
the operation and enforcement of this division.
   C.   Give Notice: He shall notify any applicant of the acceptance or
rejection of his application and shall, upon his refusal of any license or
permit, at the applicant's request, state in writing the reasons therefor and
deliver them to the applicant.
   D.   Information Confidential: The license officer shall keep all
information furnished or secured under the authority of this division in strict
confidence. Such information shall not be subject to public inspection and
shall be kept so that the contents thereof shall not become known except to the
persons charged with the administration of this division. (1982 Code)
4-1B-3: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspectors Authorized: The following persons are authorized to conduct
inspections in the manner prescribed herein:
      1.   License Officer: The license officer shall make all investigations
reasonably necessary to the enforcement of this division.
      2.   Officials Having Duties: The license officer shall have the
authority to order the inspection of licensees, their businesses and premises,
by all county officials having duties to perform with reference to such
licensees and businesses.
   B.   Inspectors' Authority: All persons authorized herein to inspect
licensees and businesses shall have the authority to enter, after identifying
themselves as such inspectors of licenses and businesses, at any reasonable
time, the following premises:
      1.   Those for which a license is required;
      2.   Those for which a license was issued and which, at the time of
inspection, are operating under such license; and
      3.   Those for which the license has been revoked or suspended.
   C.   Inspectors' Reports: Persons inspecting licensees, their businesses or
premises as herein authorized shall report all violations of this division or
of other laws or ordinances to the license officer and shall submit such other
reports as the license officer shall order. (1982 Code)
4-1B-4: PROVISIONAL ORDER FOR VIOLATIONS:
When an inspector has reported the violation of this division or of any law or
ordinance, the license officer shall issue to the affected person a provisional
order to comply.
   A.   Notice Content; Issuance: The provisional order, and all other notices
issued in compliance with this division, shall be in writing, shall be
personally served, and shall apprise the person affected of his specific
violations. In the absence of the person affected or his agent or employee, a
copy of such notice shall be affixed to some structure on the premises.
Depositing such notice in the United States mail shall constitute service
thereof.
   B.   Compliance Period; Extension Of Time: The provisional order shall
require compliance within fifteen (15) days of personal service on the affected
person. Upon written application, or in his own motion, the license officer
shall have the authority, in a proper case, to extend the time for compliance,
to grant a new hearing date, and to change, modify or rescind any
recommendation or order. (1982 Code)
4-1B-5: FINAL ORDER FOR VIOLATIONS:
Upon the failure or refusal of the violator to comply with the provisional
order made after hearing, the license officer shall then declare and make the
provisional order final. (1982 Code)
4-1B-6: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   Authority Of License Officer: The license officer shall, with the
approval of the county board of Ogle County, have the authority to suspend or
revoke licenses upon making and declaring a provisional order final.
   B.   Effect Of Revocation Or Suspension: Upon revocation or suspension, no
refund of any portion of the license fee shall be made to the licensee and he
shall immediately cease all business at all places under such license. (1982
Code)
4-1B-7: SUMMARY ACTION; CLOSURE OF BUSINESS:
When the conduct of any licensee, agent or employee is so inimical to the
public health, safety and general welfare as to constitute a nuisance and thus
give rise to an emergency, the license officer shall have the authority to
summarily order the cessation of business and the close of premises or to
suspend or revoke the license. (1982 Code)
4-1B-8: SPECIAL HEARING ON SUMMARY ACTION:
Unless waived in writing, within five (5) days after he has acted summarily,
the license officer shall conduct a special hearing for such action in respect
to the summary order as may be therein determined. Notice of such hearing shall
be given the affected person in the manner prescribed herein. (1982 Code)
4-1B-9: APPEAL, HEARING PROVIDED:
Any person aggrieved by any decision of the license officer after hearing shall
have the right to appeal to the Ogle County board by filing a written appeal
with the county clerk within ten (10) days following the effective date of the
action or decision complained of.
   A.   Content Of Appeal: Such appeal shall set out a copy of the order or
decision appealed from and shall include a statement of the facts relied upon
to avoid such order.
   B.   Filing Of Appeal: At the time of filing any such appeal, a copy thereof
shall be filed by the appellant with the license officer.
   C.   Hearing Provision: The chairman of the county board shall fix a time
and place for hearing the appeal and shall personally serve a written notice,
as provided herein, upon the appellant informing him thereof.
   D.   Effect Of Decision: The findings of the Ogle County board shall be
final and conclusive and shall be personally served upon the appellant as
required herein. (1982 Code)
4-1B-10: VIOLATIONS, LIABILITY:
   A.   Unpaid Fee Liability For Debt: The amount of any unpaid fee, the
payment of which is required hereunder, shall constitute a debt due the county.
   B.   Action To Recover Debt: The state's attorney shall, at the direction of
the license officer, institute civil suit in the name of the county to recover
any such unpaid fee.
   C.   Criminal Prosecution Provided: No civil judgment, or any act by the
state's attorney, the license officer or the violator shall bar or prevent a
criminal prosecution for each and every violation of this division. (1982 Code)
4-1B-11: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this division shall be served
with written notice stating the nature of the violation and provide a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently cease all
violations.
Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for
in the notice of violation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction
thereof shall be fined in an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed to be a separate offense. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE C. LICENSE REQUIREMENTS, ISSUANCE PROCEDURE
SECTION:
4-1C-1: License Required
4-1C-2: Qualifications Of Applicant
4-1C-3: Issuance Procedure Established, Fee
4-1C-4: Application Fees; Receipt
4-1C-5: License Content
4-1C-6: License Renewal
4-1C-7: Duplicate License
4-1C-8: Supplemental License
4-1C-9: License Transfer
4-1C-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, either directly or indirectly, to conduct
any business or enterprise, or to use in connection therewith any vehicle,
premises, machine or device, in whole or in part, for which a license or permit
is required by any law or ordinance of this county, without a license or permit
therefor being first procured and kept in effect at all such times as required
by this division or other law or ordinance of the county. (1982 Code)
4-1C-2: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
The general standards herein set as relative to the qualifications of every
applicant for a county license shall be considered and applied by the county
license officer. The applicant shall:
   A.   Be a citizen of the United States, or a declarant therefor as
authorized by law.
   B.   Not, either individually or as a member of any party, group or
organization, at the time of any such application for a license or special
permit, advocate or resort to any practices subversive of or designed for the
overthrow, destruction or sabotage of the government of the United States.
   C.   Be of good moral character. In making such determination, the county
license officer shall consider:
      1.   Penal History: All convictions, the reasons therefor, and the
demeanor of the applicant subsequent to his release.
      2.   License History: The license history of the applicant; whether such
person, in previously operating in this or another state under a license has
had such license revoked or suspended, the reasons therefor, and the demeanor
of the applicant subsequent to such action.
      3.   General Personal History: Such other facts relevant to the general
personal history of the applicant as he shall find necessary to a fair
determination of the eligibility of the applicant.
   D.   Not be in default under the provisions of this division or indebted or
obligated in any manner to the county except for current taxes.
   E.   Present a certificate of occupancy furnished by the zoning
administrator to the effect that the proposed use of any premises is not a
violation of county zoning regulations 1 . (1982 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 16 of this code.
4-1C-3: ISSUANCE PROCEDURE ESTABLISHED, FEE:
Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of any division
of this code or law of the county shall submit an application for such license
to the county license officer. The application shall:
   A.   Be a written statement upon forms provided by the county license
officer. Such form shall include an affidavit, to be sworn to by the applicant
before a notary public or the county clerk.
   B.   Require the disclosure of all information necessary to compliance with
section
4-1C-2 of this article and of any other information which the county license
officer shall find to be reasonably necessary to the fair administration of
this division.
   C.   Be accompanied by the full amount of the fees chargeable for such
license. (1982 Code)
4-1C-4: APPLICATION FEES; RECEIPT:
   A.   Fees Required: Application shall be accompanied by the payment of an
issuance fee as follows:
      1.   The sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year, to be paid by all
businesses, as defined in section
4-1A-1 of this division, with the exception of any and all businesses
classified as motor vehicle racing businesses, which includes, but is not
limited to, the motor vehicle racing business known as "drag racing".
      2.   The sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day for each racing day
for all businesses, as defined in section
4-1A-1 of this division, which are classified as motor vehicle racing
businesses, which includes, but is not limited to, the motor vehicle racing
business known as "drag racing". (Ord., 6-17-1986)
      3.   The owner/operator of a business as defined in section
4-1A-1 of this division, which is classified as a motor vehicle racing
business, which includes, but is not limited to, the motor vehicle racing
business known as "drag racing", shall, prior to the first operating business
day of each year, pay a sum to the county clerk which shall not be less than
the amount paid in total during the previous business year. Such amount shall
be applied to the current season's daily permit fees. No permit shall be issued
until the daily fees are paid in full as described for the current season. At
the conclusion of the current season the difference, if any, as to the number
of operating days and the fees paid at the beginning of that business year
shall be determined by the licensing officer and a refund or additional
collection must be satisfied before the next season commences. (Ord., 7-13-
1982)
   B.   Receipt Provided: Whenever a license cannot be issued at the time the
application for the same is made, the county license officer shall issue a
receipt to the applicant for the money paid in advance. Such receipt shall not
be construed as the approval of the county license officer for the issuance of
a license; nor shall it entitle or authorize the applicant to open or maintain
any business contrary to the provisions of this division.
   C.   Fee Refund For Nonapproval Of License: The license officer shall, upon
disapproving any application submitted under the provisions of this division,
refund all fees paid in advance to the applicant, provided the applicant is not
otherwise indebted to the county. (1982 Code)
4-1C-5: LICENSE CONTENT:
Each license issued as provided in paragraph
4-1B-2A of this division shall state upon its face the following:
   A.   The name of the licensee and any other name under which such business
is to be conducted.
   B.   The kind and address of each business so licensed.
   C.   The amount of license fee therefor.
   D.   The dates of issuance and expiration thereof.
   E.   Such other information as the license officer shall determine. (1982
Code)
4-1C-6: LICENSE RENEWAL:
The applicant for the renewal of a license shall submit an application for such
license to the county license officer. The application shall:
   A.   Form: Be a written statement upon forms provided by the county license
officer. Such form shall include an affidavit, to be sworn to by the applicant
before a notary public of this state.
   B.   Contents: Require the disclosure of such information concerning the
applicant's business during the preceding licensing period as is reasonably
necessary to the determination by the license officer of the applicant's
eligibility for a renewal license and to a possible adjustment of license fee.
(1982 Code)
4-1C-7: DUPLICATE LICENSE:
A duplicate license or special permit shall be issued by the license officer to
replace any license previously issued, which has been lost, stolen, defaced or
destroyed, without any wilful conduct on the part of the licensee, upon the
filing by the licensee of an affidavit sworn to before a notary public of this
state attesting to such facts and the paying to the license officer of a fee of
one dollar ($1.00). (Ord., 7-13-1982)
4-1C-8: SUPPLEMENTAL LICENSE:
When a licensee places himself in a new status, the license officer shall issue
a supplemental license. (1982 Code)
4-1C-9: LICENSE TRANSFER:
The license is not transferable. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE D. LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
4-1D-1: Standard Of Conduct
4-1D-2: Display Of License
4-1D-3: Location Change Restrictions
4-1D-4: Hours Of Operation
4-1D-1: STANDARD OF CONDUCT:
Every licensee under this division shall:
   A.   Permit all reasonable inspections of his business by public authorities
so authorized by law.
   B.   Ascertain and at all times comply with all laws and regulations
applicable to such licensed business.
   C.   Avoid all forbidden, improper or unnecessary practices or conditions,
which do or may affect the public health, morals or welfare.
   D.   Refrain from operating the licensed business or premises after
expiration of his license and during the period his license is revoked or
suspended. (1982 Code)
4-1D-2: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every licensee under this division shall:
   A.   Post and maintain such license upon the premises in a place where it
may be seen at all times.
   B.   Not loan, sell, give or assign to any other person, or allow any other
person to use or display, or to destroy, damage or remove, or to have in his
possession, except as authorized by the license officer or by law, any license,
which has been issued to said licensee. (1982 Code)
4-1D-3: LOCATION CHANGE RESTRICTIONS:
A licensee shall have the right to change the location of the licensed
business, provided he shall obtain written permission from the license officer
for such change of location. (1982 Code)
4-1D-4: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   All businesses with the exception of vehicle racing businesses or
outdoor movie theaters:
      1.   Opening hours: Any time after eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
      2.   Closing hours: One o'clock (1:00) A.M.
   B.   Vehicle racing and outdoor movie theater businesses: The following
hours shall apply to the opening and closing of business:
      1.   Fridays: Open any time after three o'clock (3:00) P.M. and close no
later than twelve fifteen o'clock (12:15) A.M. Saturday morning.
      2.   Saturdays: Open any time after eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and close
no later than twelve fifteen o'clock (12:15) A.M. Sunday morning.
      3.   Sundays: Open any time after eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., but no
engines may be started on any racing vehicle until nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.,
and close at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. Sunday evening.
      4.   Memorial Day and Labor Day proper: Open any time after eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. and close at nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. (Ord., 7-19-2005)
DIVISION 2
LIQUOR REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
4-2A-1: General Definitions
4-2A-1: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this division shall, for the
purposes of this division, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by
this section:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes the four (4) varieties of liquor, defined herein:
"alcohol", "spirits", "wine" and "beer" and every liquid or solid, patented or
not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as
a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this division shall not apply to
alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol nor to any liquid or solid
containing one- half of one percent (0.5%), or less, of alcohol by volume. Nor
shall the provisions of this division apply to flavoring extracts,
concentrates, syrups or medicinal, mechanical, scientific; culinary or toilet
preparations, or food products unfit for beverage purposes; but the provisions
of this division shall not be construed to exclude or not apply to alcoholic
liquor used in the manufacture, preparation or compounding of such products.
None of the provisions of this division shall apply to wine intended for use by
any church or religious organization for sacramental purposes.
BEER: A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
BEER GARDEN: An area immediately adjacent and contiguous to the licensed
premises which is, at least in part, open to the air, and is used by patrons of
the licensed premises for consumption of alcoholic beverages sold by the
licensee on the licensed premises.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of the state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, the affairs and management of such club are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen
by the members at the annual meeting; and provided further, that no member or
any officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly
receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the
distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or its guests introduced
by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any
annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or other governing
body out of the general revenue of the club.
CONSUMPTION SALES: The sale or offering for sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises where sold.
DISTRIBUTOR: Any person, other than a manufacturer, who is engaged in the
county in purchasing, storing, possessing or warehousing any alcoholic liquors
for resale.
GOLF COURSE: A public or private golf course which has a clubhouse and a
minimum of one hundred (100) total acres for an eighteen (18) hole or greater
course or minimum of fifty (50) total acres for a nine (9) hole course. This
definition excludes facilities commonly known as "miniature golf courses".
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL ACT: An act passed by the 58th Illinois general
assembly entitled "an act relating to alcoholic liquors", approved January 31,
1934, as amended.
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION, STATE COMMISSION: The commission created by
the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
IMPORTING DISTRIBUTOR: Any person who imports or causes to be imported into the
state, any alcoholic liquors for sale or resale within the county.
LICENSED PREMISES: The premises described in the application for the license or
in the license as the place where the business to be covered or covered by the
license is to be or is carried on.
MANUFACTURER: Every brewer, fermenter, distiller, rectifier, winemaker,
blender, processor or person who fills or refills an original package and any
other person engaged in brewing, fermenting, distilling or rectifying alcoholic
liquors as defined herein.
NOT FOR PROFIT ORGANIZATION: Any person or persons organized solely for
benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, eleemosynary or charitable purposes
including, but not limited to: educational, civic, political, religious and
athletic.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead or
other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by a manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
OWNER, PROPRIETOR: All persons who are owners or are in control of any place
where the sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor is carried on, whether they
be individuals, partners, corporations, joint stock companies, fiduciaries or
officers, directors, stockholders or corporations or otherwise.
PACKAGE SALES: The sale or offering for sale at retail of alcoholic liquor, in
the original package, and not to be consumed or in fact consumed in whole or in
part on the premises where sold; provided, however, that "package sales" shall
not include original packages containing less than one- half (1/2) pint of
alcoholic liquor.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public where meals are served, and where meals are actually and regularly
served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided with
adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and having
employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and
serve suitable food for its guests.
RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter, in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, for a consideration and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employees.
SELL AT RETAIL, SALE AT RETAIL: Sales for use or consumption and for resale in
any form.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
TO SELL: To solicit or to receive an order for, to keep or expose for sale and
to keep with intent to sell.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits" as defined herein.
(1982 Code; amd. Ord., 4-18-1989, eff. 5-1-1989; Ord. O-2015-0507, 5-19-2015)
ARTICLE B. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
4-2B-1: Purpose
4-2B-2: State Law Adopted
4-2B-3: Liquor Control Commissioner
4-2B-4: Liquor Control Commission
4-2B-5: County Clerk Duties
4-2B-6: Hearings Provided
4-2B-7: Penalty
4-2B-1: PURPOSE:
This division shall be construed to the end that the health, safety and welfare
of the people of Ogle County shall be protected and temperance in the
consumption of alcoholic liquors shall be fostered and promoted. (1982 Code)
4-2B-2: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
All of the provisions of the Illinois liquor control act 1  and of the rules
and regulations issued by the Illinois liquor control commission, which are or
may hereafter be in force, which are applicable to the county are hereby
incorporated into and declared to be a part of this division the same as if
they were expressly set forth herein. (1982 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS.
4-2B-3: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The chairman of the county board shall be the county liquor control
commissioner who shall be charged with the administration of the appropriate
provisions of the state law and this division. (1982 Code)
4-2B-4: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION:
   A.   Members, Compensation: The chairman of the county board shall appoint
two (2) of its members to assist him in the exercise of his powers and the
performance of the duties of this division and state law. Such members,
together with the chairman, shall constitute the county liquor control
commission.
The members of the liquor control commission shall be paid the prevailing fee
or compensation received by them as members of a committee of the county board
for each day spent by them in the actual performance of their duties under the
terms and provisions of this division and of the state law, and in addition
thereto, shall receive the prevailing mileage amount for each mile necessarily
traveled in the performance of such duties.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The liquor commission shall have the following
powers and duties:
      1.   Grant Or Revoke License: To grant, to suspend and to revoke for
cause all licenses issued under this division to persons for premises within
his jurisdiction.
      2.   Right Of Entry: To enter into and to authorize any law enforcing
officer to enter at any time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine
whether any of the provisions of the Illinois liquor control act, of this
division, or of any rules and regulations adopted by him or by the state
commission have been or are being violated.
      3.   Exercise Powers Granted Under State Law: To exercise all the powers,
functions and duties which now or hereafter may be granted to them by the
Illinois liquor control act or by this chapter.
      4.   Suspension And Revocation Of License: To suspend or to revoke any
license issued under this division for any of the following reasons:
         a.   The licensee has violated any of the laws of the United States
relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor, or any of the provisions of the
Illinois liquor control act, or any ordinance enacted by the county board
including this division, or any applicable rules and regulations adopted by the
liquor commission.
         b.   The wilful making of any false statements as to a material fact
in the application for such license.
         c.   The permitting of an unlawful, disorderly or immoral practice
upon the licensed premises.
         d.   The refusal of any licensee to testify under oath to all relevant
and material questions propounded to him at any hearing conducted by the liquor
commissioner.
         e.   The state commission has suspended or revoked the license of the
licensee.
      5.   Examination Of Applicants: To examine or cause to be examined under
oath any applicant for a local license or for a renewal thereof, or any
licensee upon whom notice of hearing has been served, to hear testimony and
take proof for his information in the performance of his duties, and for such
purposes to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state.
      6.   Investigation Of Complaints: To receive the complaint of any
resident of the county, and to investigate upon such complaint, or to
investigate upon his own initiative, any alleged violations of any law of the
United States relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor, or any of the
provisions of the Illinois liquor control act, or any ordinance of the county
including this division, or any applicable rules and regulations adopted by the
liquor commission or by the state commission.
      7.   Rules And Regulations: To make, promulgate, alter, amend, repeal and
enforce such reasonable rules and regulations relating to the administration
and enforcement of the provisions of this division as may be deemed by them to
be desirable. (1982 Code)
4-2B-5: COUNTY CLERK DUTIES:
The county clerk shall receive all license applications, and issue all licenses
when directed to do so by the liquor commission, and perform such other duties
and functions as are assigned to him by this division. (1982 Code)
4-2B-6: HEARINGS PROVIDED:
For the purpose of administering and enforcing the provisions of this division,
the liquor commissioner may, in his discretion, hold public hearings at any
time within the county concerning any matters embraced within this division.
(1982 Code)
4-2B-7: PENALTY:
Whoever violates any of the provisions of this division shall, upon conviction,
be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). (1982 Code)
ARTICLE C. LICENSING PROCEDURE
SECTION:
4-2C-1: License Required
4-2C-2: Lapsed, Revoked And Canceled Licenses
4-2C-3: Application For License
4-2C-4: License Issuance, Provisions
4-2C-5: License Classifications; Number Limited; Fee
4-2C-6: Display Of License Required
4-2C-7: Operation Under Assumed Name
4-2C-8: Change Of Ownership
4-2C-9: Location Change
4-2C-10: Cancellation, Suspension Or Revocation
4-2C-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, bottle, blend, sell,
barter, transport, deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor in the
county in the territory outside the limits of any city or incorporated town or
village without having first obtained a retailer's license so to do, issued by
the county liquor control commissioner in keeping with the provisions of this
division and the Illinois liquor control law. (Ord., 4-18-1989, eff. 5-1-1989)
4-2C-2: LAPSED, REVOKED AND CANCELED LICENSES:
   A.   A license shall be treated as lapsed where a complete application for
renewal of the same shall not have been filed on or prior to the expiration
date thereof.
   B.   A revoked license is one that has been made inoperative pursuant to
law.
   C.   A canceled license is one that has been voluntarily surrendered by the
licensee. (1982 Code)
4-2C-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Form: All applications for licenses from the county liquor control
commission shall be made with the county clerk, in writing, under oath and on
forms of application, furnished by the clerk. Such applications shall contain
the information and statements as set out in state law for a state license.
   B.   Evidence Of Ownership: At the time of application for a liquor license,
the applicant shall show evidence of ownership or bona fide lease for the
premises to be used in such business to cover the period for the requested
annual liquor license.
   C.   Agreement To Comply: Each applicant for a license required by section
4-2C-1 of this article shall agree in his application to comply with all the
restrictions and regulations imposed by the laws of the state and this division
and other ordinances or resolutions of the county in force at the time of
making such application or that may thereafter be passed relating to the sale
at retail of alcoholic liquors, and shall authorize the liquor control
commissioner to revoke such license for violation of such agreement, and that
the license fee, paid for such license shall be forfeited to the county.
   D.   Ineligibility: No license shall be granted to any person who has been
convicted of a felony, or who has been convicted of any offense involving
gambling, and who has not resided in the county for at least thirty (30) days.
No corporation shall be granted a license if any officer, manager or director
thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than
five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to
receive a license hereunder for any reason, other than citizenship and
residence within the county. It shall be unlawful for a licensee to employ a
person to operate or be in charge of such licensed premises, unless they can
and do so qualify as a licensee under the state law and this division before
the county liquor commission. (1982 Code)
4-2C-4: LICENSE ISSUANCE, PROVISIONS:
   A.   Granted, Liquor Control Commission Action: All applications for
licenses shall be referred to the county liquor control commission. It is
empowered to grant licenses subject to the provisions set forth in the state
law and this division. It shall be the duty of the commission to check the
applicant's record with the police department and the county sheriff, and the
state's attorney of the county. In addition, the commission shall require the
fingerprinting of each applicant and the submission of such fingerprints to the
federal bureau of investigation in Washington, D.C., for report. If any
applicant for a liquor license shall not have resided in the county for at
least ten (10) years immediately prior to this application, the commission
shall have the duty to check in the county wherein the applicant has resided
during the ten (10) years immediately prior to the date of his application.
   B.   Execution And Renewal: All licenses shall be signed by the liquor
control commissioner and every renewal shall be in all respects identical with
the original or first license. (1982 Code)
   C.   Duration And Expiration: Excepting licenses issued on a prorated basis,
all licenses issued by the commission shall be annual licenses and shall expire
on April 30 following their issuance and shall state thereon the name of the
licensee and the address and description of the premises for which the license
is granted, together with the date of its issuance and expiration. It shall be
the duty of the liquor commission to see that all licenses are returned to the
files of the commission upon expiration or revocation. (Ord., 6-17-1986)
Class A-1 and B-1(W) licenses may be issued on a prorated basis by the
commission for entities that only operate during limited portions of the
calendar year. In addition to the name of the licensee and the address and
description of the premises for which the license is granted, all licenses
issued on a prorated basis shall state the date of issuance as well as the
commencement and expiration dates of the licenses. (Ord., 3-18-2004)
Each license shall contain the following clause:
Subject to revocation and under such restrictions and regulations as provided
by Illinois Liquor Control Law and Resolutions of the County Board regulating
the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor, and laws and resolutions amendatory
thereto.
(Ord., 6-17-1986)
   D.   Effect Of Issuance: Nothing by reason of the issuance of a new license
either in connection with the transfer of a business to a new location or to a
new owner of an old location shall entitle any other applicant to a license for
other premises.
   E.   Personal Privilege, Restrictions: A license shall be purely a personal
privilege good for not to exceed one year after issuance unless sooner revoked
as provided in this division, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it
be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable
or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered
or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but shall cease upon the death of the licensee. Executors
or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee which such estate
consists in part of alcoholic liquor, under order of the appropriate court may
exercise the privileges of the deceased after the death of such decedent until
the expiration of such license, but not longer than six (6) months after the
death of such licensee. A refund shall not be made of that portion of the
license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from
operating under such license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof; provided, that he
is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such renewal
is sought are suitable for such purpose. The renewal privilege herein provided
for shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent
the county liquor control commission from decreasing the number of licenses to
be issued within its jurisdiction. (1982 Code)
4-2C-5: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS; NUMBER LIMITED; FEE:
   A.   Control Of Number Of Licenses: The county liquor control commission may
set from time to time, as public welfare seems to warrant, a limit to the total
licenses to be issued in the county for any locality, neighborhood, or part of
the county, except that in no event shall the county liquor control commission
issue more licenses than as follows:
 Number Of Licenses
                Number Of Licenses
Class A and A-1 15
Class B or B-1  3
Class B-1(W)    1
Class C and C-1 4
Class F         1
Class H         3
Class I         5
Class I-1       5
 
This provision does not limit special one day licenses (classes E and G).
   B.   Classification And Fees Established: The classification of licenses
authorized to be issued under this division and the license fees shall be as
follows:
      1.   Class A License: A class A license shall authorize the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor on the premises specified of all alcoholic liquors for
consumption on the premises, as well as other retail sales of such liquor. The
annual fee for such license shall be seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00),
payable in advance. The location must derive at least sixty five percent (65%)
of their sales from liquor, food and nongaming income. For purposes of income,
retail sales shall be calculated using gross retail sales, for all purposes
except gaming income which shall be calculated using net terminal income
received by the establishment. The liquor control commissioner may require
proof of such percentages before issuance or renewal of license.
         a.   Any holder of a class A license may apply for a class V license
which class V license shall also be required in order for the applicant to
have, locate, maintain and operate video gaming terminals (as defined under the
Illinois video gaming act 1 ) within the class A license establishment. Any
person holding a class V license shall comply with all provisions of the video
gaming act.
         b.   The annual fee for a class V license shall be zero dollars
($0.00) which is in addition to the annual fee for a class A license.
      2.   Class A-1 License: A class A-1 license shall authorize all sales of
a class A license but shall also authorize the licensed establishment to be
open on Sunday for the hours indicated in section
4-2D-1 of this division. The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500.00), payable in advance. The location must derive
at least sixty five percent (65%) of their sales from liquor, food and
nongaming income. For purposes of income, retail sales shall be calculated
using gross retail sales, for all purposes except gaming income which shall be
calculated using net terminal income received by the establishment. The liquor
control commissioner may require proof of such percentages before issuance or
renewal of license.
         a.   Any holder of a class A-1 license may apply for a class V license
which class V license shall also be required in order for the applicant to
have, locate, maintain and operate video gaming terminals (as defined under the
Illinois video gaming act 2 ) within the class A-1 license establishment. Any
person holding a class V license shall comply with all provisions of the video
gaming act.
         b.   The annual fee for a class V license shall be zero dollars
($0.00) in which is in addition to the annual fee for a class A-1 license.
      3.   Class B License: A class B license shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquor in the original package but not for consumption on the
premises where sold. The annual fee for such license shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00), payable in advance.
      4.   Class B-1 License: A class B-1 license shall authorize all sales of
a class B license but shall also authorize the licensed establishment to be
open on Sunday for the hours indicated in section
4-2D-1 of this division. The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), payable in advance.
      5.   Class B-1(W) License: A class B-1(W) license shall authorize the
sales of wine in its original package but not for consumption on the premises
where sold and authorizes the licensed establishment to be open on Sunday for
the hours indicated in section
4-2D-1 of this division. The annual fee for such license shall be six hundred
dollars ($600.00), payable in advance.
      6.   Class C License: A class C license shall authorize the sale of beer
and wine to be consumed on or off the premises where sold. The annual fee for
such license shall be three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00), payable in
advance.
      7.   Class C-1 License: A class C-1 license shall authorize all sales of
a class C license but shall also authorize the licensed premises to be open on
Sunday for the hours indicated in section
4-2D-1 of this division. The annual fee for such license shall be seven hundred
dollars ($700.00), payable in advance.
      8.   Class E License: A class E license shall be a one day license issued
to not for profit organizations when used solely for their benefit and not in
connection with a non-not for profit organization. The limitations and
conditions are to be those for a class A-1 license. No more than ten (10) such
licenses shall be issued to any one organization in a calendar year. The fee
for the special one day license shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00), payable
in advance.
      9.   Class F License: A class F club license shall authorize the retail
sale on the premises specified of all alcoholic liquors for consumption on the
premises. The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), payable in advance.
      10.   Class G License: A class G license shall be a one day license
issued to for profit organizations to be used solely for the benefit of the
recipient organization. A class G license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor on the premises specified of all alcoholic liquors for
consumption on the premises, as well as other retail sales of such liquor. A
class G license shall also authorize the licensed organization to sell
alcoholic liquors on Sunday for the hours indicated in section
4-2D-1 of this division. The fee for a class G license shall be sixty two
dollars fifty cents ($62.50).
      11.   Class H License: A Class H license shall be for golf courses as
defined herein and shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor on the
premises specified of all alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises, as
well as other retail sales of such liquor. The permitted hours for sale of
alcoholic liquor shall be the same as a Class A-1 license, and in addition from
March 15th to October 31 of each year a Class H license holder shall be allowed
to sell alcoholic liquor on Sundays between eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. and
twelve o’clock (12:00) noon. The annual fee for such license shall be one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00), payable in advance.
      Any golf course holding a Class A-1 license at the time that the Class H
license is enacted shall be permitted to apply to convert their license
classification from Class A-1 to Class H for the cost of the annual fee
previously paid for the Class A-l license for the remainder of the term of
their current Class A-1 license.
      12.   Class I Caterer License: A class I license shall authorize the sale
of alcoholic liquor where the alcoholic liquor is both delivered and served by
the licensee on premises located either inside or outside of the corporate
limits of Ogle County, whether the location is licensed or unlicensed, as an
incidental part of food service where prepared meals and alcoholic liquors are
sold at a package price agreed upon under contract. The permitted hours of sale
shall be the same as a class A-1 license. The annual fee for such license when
no other license hereunder is held, shall be seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), payable in advance. For holders of a class A, class A-1, class C,
class C-1, class F or class H license hereunder there shall be no additional
fee for a class I license.
      13.   Class I-1 Outside Caterer License: A class I-1 license shall
authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor by a caterer who holds a caterer liquor
license from another local jurisdiction and a caterer liquor license from the
state of Illinois to sell alcoholic liquor where the alcoholic liquor is both
delivered and served by the licensee on premises located inside the corporate
limits of Ogle County, whether the location is licensed or unlicensed, as an
incidental part of food service where prepared meals and alcoholic liquors are
sold at a package price agreed upon under contract. In the event that there is
a conflict between the regulations of Ogle County and the regulations of the
local jurisdiction issuing the caterer's license the regulations of Ogle County
shall be controlling. The permitted hours for sale shall be the same as a class
A-1 license. The annual fee for such license shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00), payable in advance.
   C.   Proration Of Fees: The license fee to be paid shall be reduced in
proportion to the full calendar months which have expired in the licensing year
prior to the issuance of the license. Licenses issued on a prorated basis shall
require full payment of the license fee prior to obtaining the license. For the
purpose of such prorated licenses, any portion of a month shall require the
payment of a full month's license fee.
   D.   Payment Of Fees: All license fees, except as otherwise provided in this
division, shall be paid in full in advance and shall accompany the application
for such license. All renewal license fees must be paid not less than ten (10)
days prior to the expiration of said existing license.
   E.   Six Month Sunday Sales Option: Any holder of an A-1, B-1 or C-1 license
may opt for Sunday sales, as permitted pursuant to said license, restricted to
a six (6) month period from May 1 to October 31 of the license year. Said
restriction shall be prominently noted on the license. Fees for licenses issued
with the above noted option shall be as follows:
 
Class Annual Fee
A-1   $1,125.00
B-1   750.00
C-1   525.00
 
(1982 Code; amd. Ord., 6-17-1986; Ord., 4-18-1989, eff. 5-1-1989; Ord., 4-18-
2004; Ord., 6-21-2005; Ord., 4-20-2010; Ord. 1, 4-20-2010; Ord. 2014-0706, 7-
15-2014; Ord. 2014-0707, 7-15-2014; Ord. O-2015-0507, 5-19-2015; Ord. O-2015-
0508, 5-19-2015; Ord. O-2019-1105, 11-19-2019; Ord. O-2023-0402, 4-18-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
2 2. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
4-2C-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business under this
division to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent and conspicuous
place on the premises used for such business. (1982 Code)
4-2C-7: OPERATION UNDER ASSUMED NAME:
Every licensee under this division who does, conducts or transacts business
under an assumed name shall be required to comply with the terms and provisions
of "an act in relation to the use of an assumed name in the conduct or
transaction of business in this state" 1 .
The failure by any licensee hereunder to comply with the provisions of any part
of this section shall be considered and deemed cause for the revocation and
cancellation of the liquor license issued under this division by the county
liquor control commission. (1982 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS.
4-2C-8: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP:
In the event one or more members of a firm or partnership withdraw from such
business, the business may be continued by the remaining person or persons,
partner or partners under the same liquor license for the remainder of the
period for which the license was issued to the licensee or licensees. The
change in ownership, however, shall be reported immediately to the county
liquor control commission and the change shall be shown immediately on the
original license application then in effect filed in the office of the county
clerk.
The failure by any licensee hereunder to comply with the provisions of any part
of this section shall be considered and deemed cause for the revocation and
cancellation of the liquor license issued under this division by the county
liquor control commission. (1982 Code)
4-2C-9: LOCATION CHANGE:
A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only
in the premises described in the application and license. Such location may be
changed only upon authority granted by the county liquor control commission;
provided, that written application for such change is made by the licensee. No
change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new location in the
written application is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
under the laws of the state and this division. (1982 Code)
4-2C-10: CANCELLATION, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Cancellation For Annexation: In the event a section or any part thereof
within the county in which there is situated a duly licensed premises for the
sale of alcoholic liquor under this division, is annexed to a municipality,
village or city within the county, the licensee of such annexed part shall be
required to return, hand over and surrender to the county liquor control
commission his license for revocation and cancellation. The county liquor
control commission shall have the right to assign and issue the revoked and
canceled liquor license, subject, however, to the licensee of such annexed
part, having the privilege of moving and transferring his license to a new and
proper location in the county within one hundred eighty (180) days from the
date of annexation. Providing, that such licensee of the annexed part does not
engage in the liquor business nor make application for a liquor license to any
municipality, village or city within the county in the premises formerly
occupied for the sale of alcoholic liquor under license granted under authority
of this division.
   B.   Discontinued Business, Revocation: Whenever any owner or member of an
original firm or partnership, which is a licensee under this division, ceases
to carry on the business, the license issued under this division shall be
returned, handed over and surrendered to the county liquor control commission
for revocation and cancellation. The county liquor control commission shall
have the right to assign and issue such revoked and canceled liquor license.
If the said license is not used by the licensee within a period of ninety (90)
days from the date of issuance of license, the license is subject to revocation
within the discretion of the Ogle County liquor commission and provided that if
the license is issued and used by the licensee and during the period of license
the licensee ceases to use the license for a period of ninety (90) days, the
license is subject to revocation within the discretion of the Ogle County
liquor commission.
   C.   Suspension And Revocation: The local liquor control commissioner may
revoke or suspend a license issued by the liquor control commissioner if that
commissioner determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the liquor control act or any valid ordinance or resolution enacted by the
county board or any applicable rule or regulation established by the local
liquor control commissioner or the state commission which is not inconsistent
with the law. However, no such license shall be so revoked or suspended except
after a public hearing by the local liquor control commissioner with a three
(3) day written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to
appear and defend.
If the local liquor control commissioner has reason to believe that any
continued operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten
the welfare of the community, he may, upon the issuance of a written order
stating the reason for such conclusion, and without notice or hearing, order
the licensed premises closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the
licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period; except that, if such
licensee shall be also engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses
on the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other
business or businesses.
The local liquor control commissioner shall, within five (5) days after such
hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license should be revoked
or suspended, state the reason or reasons for such determination, and prepare a
written order of revocation or suspension, and shall serve a copy of such order
upon the licensee within said five (5) days. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE D. CONDUCT RESTRICTIONS OF LICENSEE
SECTION:
4-2D-1: Hours Of Sale
4-2D-2: Extension Of Credit
4-2D-3: Prohibited Sales And Distribution
4-2D-4: Employment Of Minors Restricted
4-2D-5: Health And Sanitation
4-2D-6: Bringing In Liquor Prohibited
4-2D-7: Dancing Restricted (Rep. by Ord., 4-18-1989, eff. 5-1-1989)
4-2D-8: Federal Wagering Stamp Prohibited
4-2D-9: Prostitutes, Lewdness, Gaming Prohibited
4-2D-10: Beer Gardens
4-2D-11: Video Gaming Terminals
4-2D-1: HOURS OF SALE:
All licensees licensed to sell alcoholic liquor under this division shall be
permitted to be open for the serving, selling, delivering or giving away of
such liquors between the following hours:
Class A, B and C licenses:
 
Monday    7:00 A.M. - 1:00 A.M. Tuesday
Tuesday   7:00 A.M. - 1:00 A.M. Wednesday
Wednesday 7:00 A.M. - 1:00 A.M. Thursday
Thursday  7:00 A.M. - 1:00 A.M. Friday
Friday    7:00 A.M. - 1:00 A.M. Saturday
Saturday  7:00 A.M. - 1:00 A.M. Sunday
 
(Ord., 4-18-1989, eff. 5-1-1989)
Class A-1, B-1, B-1(W), C-1, I and I-1 licenses:
   All hours applicable to Classes A, B and C, and additionally on Sunday the
licensed establishment may be open from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. (Ord. O-2015-0508, 5-19-2015)
Class E, F and G licenses:
   All hours applicable to A-1, B-1, B-1(W) and C-1 licenses. (Ord., 12-19-
2006)
Class H license:
   All hours applicable to a Class A-1 license, and in addition from March 15th
to October 31st of each year a Class H license holder shall be allowed to sell
alcoholic liquor on Sundays between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon. (Ord. O-2019-0504, 5-21-2019)
Provided, that if December 31 falls on any day during the week, except Sunday,
the closing hours shall be extended from one o'clock (1:00) A.M. until three
o'clock (3:00) A.M. If December 31 falls on a Sunday, it shall be lawful for
alcoholic liquor to be sold or offered for sale, consumed on or in any premises
licensed under this division between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon
Sunday and three o'clock (3:00) A.M. Monday. (Ord., 12-19-2006)
No patron shall remain or be permitted to remain on any premises licensed for
the sale of alcoholic liquor (Class A, B or C) during the time that the
business of selling alcoholic liquors is not permitted to be transacted on such
premises, and the door shall be locked promptly at the time of closing and
shall remain locked during this closing period. However, in the case of the
dining room of any restaurant, food may be served to patrons requesting food
services and the doors need not be locked during the hours that liquor is not
permitted to be served, but no bartender, waiter, or any other person or
employee shall be permitted behind any service or other bar, and no wine or
liquor lists shall be displayed or placed on any table or counter, and
alcoholic liquor shall not be served on the premises during such hours as
provided in this division. The time referred to hereunder shall be either
Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Saving Time, whichever is in effect
in the County. (1982 Code; amd. Ord., 4-18-1989, eff. 5-1-1989)
4-2D-2: EXTENSION OF CREDIT:
No licensee, his agent or employee, shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at
retail to any person on credit or on a passbook or order on a store, or in
exchange for any goods, wares or merchandise or in payment for any services
rendered. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club from
permitting checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests
residing at the hotel and charged to the accounts of the guests. (1982 Code)
4-2D-3: PROHIBITED SALES AND DISTRIBUTION:
No licensee shall sell, offer for sale or furnish alcoholic liquor to any
person or patron except on the licensed premises. The serving of liquor for
consumption on the licensed premises to persons in parked automobiles or at
tables thereon outside the building or barroom where the same is sold is hereby
prohibited. No alcoholic liquor shall be sold, served or given to any minor and
under no circumstances shall any liquor be sold on credit.
   A.   Minors, Intoxicated And Other Persons: No licensee, his agent or
employee, shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person, or to any
intoxicated person or to any person known by him to be a habitual drunkard,
spendthrift or insane, feeble minded or distracted person.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not of legal drinking age according to
state statute to represent that he is of age for the purpose of buying,
accepting or receiving alcoholic liquor from a licensee 1 .
   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer's license, or
his agent or employee, to suffer or permit a person not of legal drinking age
according to state statute to frequent, loiter, go or remain in any such room
or place in the licensed premises; provided, that this paragraph shall not
apply to any person not of legal drinking age according to state statute
present in the licensed premises for the purpose of the purchase of food. (1982
Code)
   B.   Vehicles, Sales Concerning: No licensee, his agent or employee, shall
serve, give or in any manner be concerned with placing any alcoholic liquor in
or upon or about any motor vehicle or to any occupant of a motor vehicle
whether such vehicle is moving or parked or is at a curb or in a public place
or on the licensee's premises or other private place. This restriction shall
not apply to any licensee with a drive-up window on the licensed premises as of
the date of adoption of this amendment. Subsequent holders of said licenses
shall be subject to this restriction. (Ord., 4-18-1989, eff. 5-1-1989)
   C.   Distributing To Evade Law: The free dispensing, giving away or
delivering of any alcoholic liquor for the purpose of evading any provisions of
this division or state law or any other shift or device to evade any provision
of this division shall be held to be an unlawful selling and shall ipso facto
revoke a liquor license. (1982 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-16.
4-2D-4: EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS RESTRICTED:
   A.   No licensee, his agent or employee shall permit any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to pour or mix any alcoholic liquor or work as
bartender.
   B.   No waiter or waitress of less than eighteen (18) years of age shall
serve alcoholic liquor. (1982 Code)
4-2D-5: HEALTH AND SANITATION:
   A.   Facilities Required: Every holder of a class A, C, D or F license shall
provide separate toilets and washstands for male and female patrons, and shall
maintain the same in a clean and sanitary condition in accordance with the
health ordinance of the county.
   B.   Sanitation Of Premises: Generally, all premises used for the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor or the storage of such liquor for sale shall be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with
the statute regulating the conditions of premises used for the storage or sale
of food for human consumption.
      1.   Hot And Cold Running Water: All sinks and particularly those at the
bars and counters used for the cleaning and sterilizing of glasses, dishes and
receptacles and utensils shall be provided with running hot and cold water.
      2.   Sterilization Of Utensils: All glasses, utensils and other
appliances used in preparation, service and sale of alcoholic liquor shall be
properly cleaned and sterilized with steam or warm water and chemicals approved
by the state after use, and no utensil shall, under any circumstances, be used
a second time unless it shall have been after previous use thereof so cleaned
and sterilized. In so cleaning glasses and utensils, the use of water which has
been made unsanitary by previous use is prohibited. (1982 Code)
4-2D-6: BRINGING IN LIQUOR PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to consume on the licensed premises alcoholic liquors
other than those furnished by the licensee, the bringing in of liquor by
patrons for personal consumption on the licensed premises being hereby
prohibited. (1982 Code)
4-2D-7: DANCING RESTRICTED:
(Rep. by Ord., 4-18-1989, eff. 5-1-1989)
4-2D-8: FEDERAL WAGERING STAMP PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person licensed under the provisions of this division,
employee or his agent to have in his possession a federal wagering stamp as
provided by the provisions of the revenue act of 1951, enacted by the congress
of the United States Of America. The possession of such stamp shall be
considered cause for revocation of his liquor license by the county liquor
control commission. Possession of such stamp shall be considered prima facie
evidence by the commission that gambling has occurred on the premises of the
licensee. (1982 Code)
4-2D-9: PROSTITUTES, LEWDNESS, GAMING PROHIBITED:
It shall be the duty and responsibility of every licensee under this division
to provide that no lewd persons or prostitutes remain in or about the licensed
premises and that no soliciting to prostitution, practices of prostitution or
lewdness, idleness, fornication or other misbehavior is conducted on such
licensed premises. Gaming shall be prohibited except as authorized by the
provisions of the Illinois video gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/
1 et seq., and this code. (Ord. 2014-0705, 7-15-2014)
4-2D-10: BEER GARDENS:
Every holder of a class A, A-1 or E license may maintain a "beer garden", as
defined herein, upon the licensed premises subject to the following conditions:
   A.   No part of the beer garden shall be closer than three hundred feet
(300') to any part of any residence not owned or occupied by the licensee or
owner of the licensed premises.
   B.   The beer garden shall be entirely enclosed by a fence not less than
five feet (5') in height, except for a beer garden which has no portion closer
than four hundred feet (400') from the centerline of a public highway or public
road.
   C.   Access to the beer garden shall be only through the licensed premises
with no entry or exit to the beer garden from the outside except for emergency
exits as required by law. This restriction shall not apply to a beer garden
which, has no portion closer than four hundred feet (400') from the centerline
of a public highway or public road.
   D.   No sound amplification of any kind shall be allowed in the beer garden
after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. if any part of the beer garden is closer than
one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of any part of any residence not owned
or occupied by the licensee or owner of the licensed premises.
   E.   No beer garden shall be used until a diagram showing the beer garden
and its position relative to the licensed premises, adjoining properties and
nearest residence (other than one owned or occupied by the licensee or owner of
the licensed premises) including a showing of distance in feet from the beer
garden to such nearest residence is filed with the commission. (Ord., 4-17-
1990)
4-2D-11: VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS:
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   The phrases "video gaming terminal", "licensed establishment",
"licensed fraternal establishment", "licensed veterans establishment", and
"licensed truck stop establishment" shall have the meanings set forth in the
Illinois video gaming act 1 .
      2.   "Licensee" shall mean and include all of the establishments defined
in paragraph A1 of this section.
   B.   Imposition of Annual Fee. Commencing upon adoption of this ordinance,
an annual fee of One hundred and fifty and No/100 Dollars ($150.00), is hereby
imposed upon each video gaming terminal operated by a licensed establishment,
licensed fraternal establishment, licensed veteran’s establishment or licensed
truck stop establishment within the County in accordance with the provisions of
the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et. seq. (the “Act”). The fee paid
for each video gaming terminal shall be for the fiscal year May 1 through April
30, and any fee paid during a fiscal year shall apply until the end of the
fiscal year in which paid. Any continuing operation of a video gaming terminal
shall require the payment of a new annual fee on or before May 1 of each year
for the ensuing fiscal year.
   C.   Application For Permit: Every licensee shall make application to the
county clerk's office for a permit, and shall pay the annual fee for each video
gaming terminal operated. Any individual, partnership, or corporation intending
to place a video gaming terminal in its establishment shall first file an
application for a video gaming licensed establishment permit, which application
shall include the following information:
      1.   The name of the applicant, its business address, its owners and in
the case of corporations, veteran or fraternal establishments, the names and
addresses of its officers and board members;
      2.   The location for which the license is sought;
      3.   A copy of the written, signed lease or rental agreement or other
written authority for use of the equipment at the location;
      4.   The number of video gaming terminals to be on the location for which
a permit is requested;
      5.   Each application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). The application fee shall be payable to the county
by certified check or money order;
      6.   No permit shall be issued to any person whose video gaming terminal
is not licensed by the state of Illinois for the location for which the permit
is sought;
      7.   All permits issued hereunder shall be issued by the Ogle County
board chairman attested by the county clerk, and no permit shall issue until
the application therefor shall have been approved by the Ogle County board
chairman;
      8.   No video gaming terminal permit shall be issued to, and no video
gaming terminal shall be placed or operated from within, a location that does
not also have issued to it a class A or class A-1 license for the sale of
alcoholic beverages at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises; and
      9.   Notwithstanding any greater limit which may from time to time be
established by the Illinois legislature, no more than six (6) video gaming
terminals shall be allowed, nor permits be issued therefor, under this section
for each licensee at any one location.
   D.   Play By Minors Prohibited; Penalties: No person under the age of twenty
one (21) years shall be permitted to use or play a video gaming terminal, and
any licensee who shall suffer or permit a person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to use or play a video gaming terminal shall be subject to fine or
have his or her licenses issued under this chapter suspended or revoked, after
hearing before the liquor control commissioner acting pursuant to the
procedures applicable to hearing held pursuant to the provisions of section
4-2C-10 of this division.
   E.   Penalty For Violation: Any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this section by operation of a video gaming terminal without
having obtained the permit and paid the annual fee therefor, or by operating a
video gaming terminal in violation of any provision of this section or the act,
shall be guilty of a petty offense, and shall be fined an amount not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each such offense, and the license or
licenses shall be subject to suspension or revocation as herein provided. Each
day that a video gaming terminal is operated in violation of this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
   F.   Inspection Of Records: Each licensee shall permit the inspection of
books and records of the licensee pertaining to and reflecting operation of
each video gaming terminal of the licensee at the request of any law
enforcement officer of the city or the state of Illinois at all reasonable
times.
(Ord. 2014-0704, 7-15-2014; amd. Ord. 2021-1203, 12-21-2021; Ord. 2022-1203,
12-20-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
DIVISION 3
DANCE HALL REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord., 5-17-1988)
DIVISION 4
MASS GATHERINGS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Permit Required
4-4-3: Permit Application
4-4-4: Permit Fees
4-4-5: Review Of Permits
4-4-6: Bond Required
4-4-7: Insurance Requirements
4-4-8: Payment Of Expenses
4-4-9: Denial Of Permit
4-4-10: Rules And Regulations
4-4-11: Violation, Penalty
4-4-12: Severability
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
MASS GATHERING: Any public gathering of people numbering one thousand (1,000)
or more.
PARTICIPANT: One who attends the mass gathering as one to produce or help
produce the performance or one who attends only as a viewer.
PROMOTERS: Any person, partnership, association or corporation, their officers,
agents and employees, including landowners upon whose land the mass gathering
is to be held, engaged in furthering such gathering. (1982 Code)
4-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no mass gathering may be
set up, held or promoted unless a written permit has been obtained from the
county health officer by the promoters at least sixty (60) days in advance. No
such permit may be issued by the county health officer until bond is posted and
certificate of insurance furnished as provided in sections
4-4-6 and 4-4-7 of this division.
   B.   These provisions do not apply to:
      1.   A mass gathering conducted or sponsored by a governmental unit, or a
mass gathering legally held on public property; or
      2.   A mass gathering conducted entirely within a permanent structure.
(1982 Code)
4-4-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   In order to obtain a permit to promote or set up any mass gathering,
the promoters must file a written application under oath stating that the
location and activities of the mass gathering will not violate any county
zoning or health ordinance or state statutes applicable thereto, and that
during the time and at the place where such mass gathering is to be held there
will be provided suitable and adequate sanitary accommodations, medical
facilities, water supplies, safe and wholesome food, land space, access and
departure routes, and protection from bodily harm for those expected to attend
such mass gatherings, as prescribed by state statutes and regulations.
   B.   Such application shall also state that officials of the state and
county health departments and state and county law enforcement agencies are
guaranteed free and open access to all areas of the grounds, buildings, offices
or other facilities of the mass gathering for the purpose of inspection to
ensure compliance with this division and the rules and regulations promulgated
hereunder.
   C.   Such application shall also contain a provision that the promoters
agree to the payment of the expenses provided in section
4-4-8 of this division.
   D.   The county health officer shall require the promoters to submit such
plans, specifications and reports in connection with such application as he may
deem necessary for acting upon such application.
   E.   The application shall also include:
      1.   The identity of the promoters, and owner of the location of the
property where the mass gathering is to be conducted, and the location at which
the mass gathering is to be conducted;
      2.   The dates and hours when the mass gathering is to be held;
      3.   The nature or purpose of the mass gathering;
      4.   The maximum number of people which the promoter plans to assemble at
any given time and the maximum number of tickets to be sold or given, if any;
and
      5.   Such additional information as the county health officer may require
in determining compliance with the provisions of this division and the rules
and regulations adopted hereunder. (1982 Code)
4-4-4: PERMIT FEES:
All applications shall be acted upon by the county health officer within thirty
(30) days of its receipt, and shall be accompanied by an application fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (1982 Code)
4-4-5: REVIEW OF PERMITS:
The county health officer shall furnish the sheriff of Ogle County with a copy
of each application within five (5) days after its receipt. The sheriff shall
review each application with respect to its rules and regulations relating to
land space, access and departure routes and protection from bodily harm and
shall, within twenty (20) days following receipt, approve or disapprove the
application and furnish the county health officer a written copy of its
findings. (1982 Code)
4-4-6: BOND REQUIRED:
No permit shall be issued under this division until the promoters have executed
and filed a performance and payment bond with the Ogle County clerk in such
form and amount, not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000.00), and with such surety
as the county health officer may require. Such bond shall be conditioned on the
promoters' faithful performance of the requirements for the issuance of a
permit stated in paragraph 4-4-3A of this division and for the payment of
expenses provided in section
4-4-8 of this division. (1982 Code)
4-4-7: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Before issuance of a permit, the county health officer shall also require the
promoters to furnish a certificate of insurance of a character and amount not
less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) nor more than two million
five hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000.00) and in such form as may be
determined by the county health officer to provide for the payment of any
claims for personal injuries, including death, property damage or other suits
arising out of or connected with such mass gathering. (1982 Code)
4-4-8: PAYMENT OF EXPENSES:
Any expenses resulting from the use of a reasonable number of state or local
police, members of the Ogle County sheriff's department, or members of the
national guard for the control of traffic and persons attending the mass
gathering shall be paid by the promoters to each agency incurring such expense.
(1982 Code)
4-4-9: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
If a permit is denied, a notice stating the reasons therefor shall be mailed by
certified mail to the applicant within five (5) days of such action. If a
permit is denied, the applicant may request a hearing before a hearing body
consisting of the chairman of the county board; the chairman of the public
health, education welfare, extension and environment committee; the chairman of
the planning assessment and zoning committee; the chairman of the sheriff,
coroner and civil defense committee; and the chairman of the state's attorney
and legislative committee, to consider the denial of the permit. (1982 Code)
4-4-10: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Ogle County board may make such reasonable rules and regulations as may be
necessary to carry out the provisions of this division. (1982 Code)
4-4-11: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
   A.   If the promoters fail to substantially perform the requirements for the
issuance of a permit, stated in section
4-4-3 of this division, or fail to pay the expenses provided for in sections
4-4-7 and
4-4-8 of this division, the county health officer shall give written notice of
the violation to the promoters by registered or certified mail. Such notice
shall state in general terms the nature of the violation and indicate that
action seeking forfeiture of the bond provided for in section
4-4-6 of this division may be commenced at any time after ten (10) days unless
a written request for a hearing on such violation is made by the promoters
within the ten (10) day period. If the promoters fail to make such a request,
or after a hearing is concluded, the state's attorney may institute suit upon
the bond to recover the full amount thereof. The amount recovered shall be used
for the payment of any expenses provided for in sections
4-4-7 and
4-4-8 of this division and the remainder deposited with the Ogle County
treasurer for the use and benefit of the people of the county.
   B.   Any person who sets up or promotes a mass gathering without first
obtaining a permit from the Ogle County public health officer or who fails to
comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under this division shall be
fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day's
violation. (1982 Code)
4-4-12: SEVERABILITY:
If any clause, sentence, section, provision, or part of this division, or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance shall be adjudged to be
unconstitutional, the remainder of this division or its application to persons
or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid shall not be
affected thereby. (Ord., 7-13-1982)
DIVISION 5
CATV FRANCHISE
SECTION:
4-5-1: Title
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: Compliance With Division
4-5-4: Grant Of Authority
4-5-5: Geographical Area Of Grant
4-5-6: Government Approval, Licenses, And Permits
4-5-7: Compliance With Laws
4-5-8: Application Procedure
4-5-9: Fees, Costs, And Payments To County
4-5-10: System Service Rates
4-5-11: Performance Bond
4-5-12: Operator Liability And Indemnification
4-5-13: Service Requirements
4-5-14: Construction And Maintenance, Standards And Requirements
4-5-15: Condition Of Street Occupancy And System Construction
4-5-16: Reservation Of Rights
4-5-17: Preferential Or Discriminatory Practices Prohibited
4-5-18: Assignment Or Transfer
4-5-19: Termination Of Franchise
4-5-20: Procedure To Consider Franchise Renewal
4-5-21: Construction Of Division
4-5-22: Notices
4-5-23: Miscellaneous Provisions
4-5-24: Subscriber Privacy
4-5-1: TITLE:
This division shall be known and cited as the OGLE COUNTY CABLE TELEVISION
ORDINANCE and is passed pursuant to the authority granted in chapter 34,
paragraphs 420.24 and 440 of the Illinois Revised Statutes. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this division, the following words shall have the meaning
given herein. When not inconsistent, words used in the present tense include
the future; words in the plural number include the singular number; and words
in the singular include the plural number.
ACT: Chapter 34, paragraph 429.24 or 440 of Illinois Revised Statutes or the
federal communications act located at 47 USCS section 521 et seq.
AFFILIATE: A subsidiary of the operator, the parent corporation of the
operator, or another subsidiary of said parent corporation.
BASIC SERVICE: Any service tier which includes the retransmission of local
television broadcast signals.
CATV: A "cable communications system" as hereafter defined.
CABLE COMMUNICATION SYSTEM: A system composed of, without limitation, antenna,
cables, wires, lines, towers, wire guides, conductors, converters, equipment,
or facilities designed for the purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying and
distributing of audio and/or visual television, electronic, or electric signals
to and from subscribers and locations in the franchise area.
COUNTY: The county of Ogle, state of Illinois and, where applicable, shall be
construed to mean departments or offices of the county.
COUNTY BOARD: The county board of Ogle County, state of Illinois. Any act
required by the county board may be performed by the chairman of the county
board.
FCC: The federal communications commission established by the federal
communications act of 1934 and shall include any successor agency or other
agency with respect to federal regulation and licensing of cable television
franchises.
FRANCHISE: All rights and privileges granted to the operator. Franchise is the
entity awarded these privileges.
GROSS REVENUES: All revenues computed on a cash accounting basis.
OPERATOR: Any person or group of persons who provide cable service over a cable
system and directly, or through one or more affiliates, owns a significant part
or interest in the community antenna system.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, incorporated or unincorporated
association, joint stock operator, trust corporation, governmental entity or
any other business organization.
PUBLIC WAY: All public sidewalks, streets, alleyways, and any other ways,
easements and rights for drainage or utility used for the purposes of this
grant, and the areas above and below the same, which may now or hereafter
exist.
SUBSCRIBER: A person receiving and paying for service from the operator.
SYSTEM: The lines, fixtures, equipment, attachments, and all appurtenances
thereto which are used in the construction, operation and maintenance of the
community antenna television system.
Words not defined shall be interpreted in accordance with definitions contained
in "Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary". (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-3: COMPLIANCE WITH DIVISION:
Prior to the commencement of service by any operator, the requirements and
regulations as herein or hereafter provided shall be complied with to the
satisfaction of the county board. Approval to commence service shall be in the
form of a franchise issued by the county. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-4: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
   A.   Grant: There is hereby granted to operator the nonexclusive right and
privilege to construct, erect, install, operate and maintain, in, upon, along,
above, over and under the streets, alleyways, public ways and public places,
and all extensions thereof and additions thereto in the county of Ogle, wires,
poles, cables, underground conduits, conductors, fixtures, and any other
hardware necessary for the maintenance and operation of a community antenna
television system for the reception and distribution of television signals and
energy; frequency modulated radio signals and any visual and aural signals
which are not otherwise herein prohibited; provided however, the operator
complies with all federal, state and local rules and regulations.
   B.   Easement:
      1.   An easement is hereby reserved for and granted to the cable
television companies with the necessary authorizations and/or franchises and
their respective successors and assigns to install, lay, construct, renew,
operate and maintain, storm and sanitary sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, poles
and wires, overhead and underground, with all necessary braces, guys, anchors,
and other equipment for the purpose of serving subscribers with cable
television service.
         a.   The right is hereby granted to use the streets for said purpose,
the right to overhang lots with aerial to serve adjacent lots, the right to
enter upon the lots at all times to install, lay, instruct, renew, operate and
maintain within said easement area pipes, conduits, cables, poles, wires,
braces, guys, anchors and other equipment.
         b.   The right is hereby granted to cut down and remove or trim and
keep trimmed trees, shrubs, or saplings that interfere or threaten to interfere
with any of the said cable television equipment and lines installed on said
easement.
      2.   No permanent buildings or trees should be placed on said easement
but the same may be used for gardens, shrubs, landscaping and other purposes
that do not then or later interfere with the aforesaid uses or rights herein
granted.
   C.   Duration: The franchise shall be granted for a term of up to fifteen
(15) years; thereafter, the franchise may be renewed for a term of up to
fifteen (15) years.
   D.   Inspections: The county reserves the right to have its agents inspect
each new or ongoing installation of the operator on its poles and in spaces
reserved for use on poles belonging to others, and in the vicinity of its lines
or appliances; and to make periodic inspections during reasonable intervals as
conditions may reasonably warrant. Such inspections, whether made or not, shall
not operate to relieve the operator of any responsibility, obligation or
liability. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-5: GEOGRAPHICAL AREA OF GRANT:
The operator shall not be required to offer system service to all areas within
Ogle County and shall, in its sole discretion, determine the extent to which
system services shall be offered within the county as would be economically or
technologically feasible. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-6: GOVERNMENT APPROVAL, LICENSES, AND PERMITS:
   A.   Registration With FCC: The franchisee shall register the grant with the
FCC within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the franchise.
   B.   Other Registrations And Permits: The franchisee shall apply for all
necessary federal, state and local governmental permits, licenses and other
required authorizations in connection with the establishment, construction,
operation and maintenance of the system and the system facilities within thirty
(30) days of the issuance of the franchise. No system shall be constructed nor
any system construction commenced unless all permits, licenses and
authorizations are included. The permits, licenses and other authorizations
include those which are within the jurisdiction of any county board. The
granting of a franchise shall not include a grant of any county permit,
license, or authorization except the franchise itself. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-7: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS:
The operator shall comply with all applicable federal, state, and county laws
and ordinances and the rules and regulations of all regulatory bodies having
jurisdiction. Failure to comply with any such law, ordinance, rule or
regulation may constitute grounds for revocation of the franchise. (Ord., 2-21-
1989)
4-5-8: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
Operators shall apply and pay an application fee as set by the county board for
franchise consideration. Application forms are provided by the county clerk.
(Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-9: FEES, COSTS, AND PAYMENTS TO COUNTY:
   A.   Franchise Fee, And Costs: As compensation for the franchise granted
herein, the franchisee shall pay to the county an annual amount of five percent
(5%) of gross revenues attributable to the operation of the cable system. Such
payments are payable on or before the first day of each month following the end
of the quarter unless alternative payment dates and arrangements are selected
and made between the Ogle County board and the franchisee.
   As of the close of the business quarter or at the end of each calendar year
or other accounting arrangement, the operator shall compel a report of annual
gross receipts from subscribers within the county and have the same certified
by a certified public accountant and turn the report together with the amount
due over to the county clerk within thirty (30) days following the close of the
business period. Such payments shall be in addition to any other payment,
charge, permit or bond owed to the county. A copy shall also be forwarded to
the office of the state's attorney.
   B.   Manner Of Payment: All payments of fees shall be made directly to the
Ogle County clerk's office. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-10: SYSTEM SERVICE RATES:
   A.   Subscriber Refunds: If any subscriber of less than sixty (60) days
terminates service due to:
      1.   Operator's failure to render service to such subscriber of a type
and quality provided for by normal similar cable companies in the area;
      2.   Operator's service terminated without due cause; or
      3.   Operator's failure to operate for any reason except termination or
expiration of a franchise granted by the county hereunder.
   The operator must refund to the subscriber an amount equal to the
installation and connection charge paid by the subscriber in accordance with
the then existing schedule of charges and the operator shall refund the monthly
service charge on a prorated basis for interruption of service. If operator
fails to make the refund, the county board shall make the refund out of the
performance bond. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-11: PERFORMANCE BOND:
At the time a franchise becomes effective, the operator shall furnish a bond to
the county in the amount of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) in such form
and with such sureties as shall be acceptable to the county guaranteeing
payment of all sums which may at any time and under any circumstances become
due from the operator to the county; and also such amounts shall cover any
repayments to the customers of the operator for the unearned value of any
deposits, service payments or connection charges extracted by the operator. The
initial bond shall be for a term of five (5) years coextensive with the term of
this franchise. The bond shall contain a provision that the surety operator
will pay to the county within the dollar limits of the bond any sum demanded as
due under this division whether or not the operator contests liability and
whether or not the county exercises any option it may have to terminate the
relationship. If any such amounts are paid by the surety operator, the operator
shall restore the bond to the full amounts required by the county within thirty
(30) days after notice of said payment, irrespective of whether or not the
operator contests its liability or brings any legal proceedings to contest its
liability. Failure so to restore the bond shall constitute a default and
grounds for revocations. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-12: OPERATOR LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   Save And Hold Harmless: The operator shall indemnify, protect and save
harmless county from and against any and all claims, demands, judgments, causes
of action, costs or other liabilities from damages to property and injury or
death to persons or property which may arise out of or be caused by the
erection, maintenance, presence, use or removal of operator's equipment,
structures, guys and anchors used, installed or placed for the principal
purpose of supporting the company's equipment or by any act of county on or in
the vicinity of the operator's poles, including, but not limited to, payments
made under any workers' compensation laws or under any plan for employee
disability and/or death benefit.
   Operator shall also indemnify, protect and save harmless county from any and
all claims, demands, judgments, causes of action, costs or other liabilities
arising from any interruption, discontinuance or interference with cable
service which may be occasioned or which may be claimed to have been occasioned
by any action of the county.
   Operator shall upon demand and at its own expense, defend any and all suits,
actions or other legal proceedings which may be brought or instituted by third
persons against county on any claim, demand or cause of action and shall pay
and satisfy any judgment or decree which may be rendered against the county in
any suit, action or other legal proceeding.
   Operator shall reimburse the county for any and all legal expenses incurred,
all out of pocket expenses, such as costs and attorney fees and shall include
the reasonable value of any service rendered by the Ogle County state's
attorney or any employees of the county involved.
   Damages or penalties shall not be limited to damages arising out of the
installation, operation or maintenance of the system authorized herein; and
irrespective of whether or not any act or omission complained of was
authorized, allowed, or prohibited by this franchise, it shall be included in
such damage or penalty award.
   B.   Insurance Coverage: The operator will maintain throughout the term of
this franchise liability insurance insuring itself and Ogle County against all
damages in minimum amounts of:
      1.   Comprehensive general liability insurance available for bodily
injury or death, property damage, fire, theft, vandalism, owner's legal
liability, and contractor liability with one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
each occurrence and two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) aggregate; and
      2.   Umbrella liability coverage with a limit of at least three million
five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000.00) subject to a deductibility of no
more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) in order to supplement
the comprehensive coverage.
   The operator must submit to the county certificates of insurance by each
operator insuring operator stating that operator is insured and that it will
not cancel or change any policy of insurance issued to operator except after
giving forty five (45) days' advance written notice to Ogle County, including
written notice to the Ogle County state's attorney. There shall be filed in the
office of the county clerk a certificate of insurance under each policy naming
Ogle County as second loss payee under each insurance policy. The insurance
operator writing such insurance and certificate shall carry a AAA financial
rating in the then current edition of "Best's Insurance Guide". (Ord., 2-21-
1989)
4-5-13: SERVICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Emergencies: In the case of any emergency or disaster, the operator
shall, upon request of the county, make available its facilities to the county
for reasonable emergency use during the emergency or disaster.
   B.   Service And Rates To Schools, Churches And County Offices:
      1.   Operator shall furnish free of charge one basic service distribution
connection to each public and private school, to each church, public library,
police and fire departments, and to each county office (including the county
jail and courthouse) situated on the pole route if economically feasible given
the location.
      2.   Additional terminal service shall be furnished by the operator upon
request with a charge on a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis.
      3.   Premium service shall be furnished upon reasonable request also with
a charge on a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis.
   C.   Service Rules: The operator shall have the right to proscribe
reasonable service rules and regulations for the conduct of business within the
county not inconsistent with provisions of this division. Rules and regulations
must be filed with the county clerk of the county of Ogle and a copy of the
same forwarded to the office of the state's attorney within the said county.
   D.   Service Requests: The operator shall maintain an office and telephone
service during normal business hours for the purpose of receiving service
inquiries and consumer complaints. The operator shall respond to all such
service inquiries and complaints and shall in good faith attempt a prompt
resolution of all matters. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-14: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE, STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Standards: Construction and maintenance of the transmission
distribution system including house connections, shall be in accordance with
the provisions of the national electrical safety code, prepared by the National
Bureau Of Standards, the National Board Of Fire Underwriters, and such
applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations the affecting electrical
installations which may now and hereafter be in effect. The system shall be
adequately grounded according to the best cable industry practices.
   B.   Hardware Removal: If the subscriber requests hardware removal upon
termination of cable service, the operator shall upon written request remove
the cable and hardware from the property owner's premises.
   C.   Convenient Installations: In the maintenance and operation of the
television transmission and distribution system and in the course of any new
construction or addition to its facilities, the operator shall proceed so as to
cause the least possible inconvenience to the general public.
   D.   FCC Technical Standards: The operator shall construct, operate and
maintain the system so as to meet FCC technical standards.
   E.   Engineering Certification: The county requires franchisees to include
with their application a certification from a registered professional engineer
stating that the applicant's technical service design and standards of the art
have been reviewed and meet all FCC technical standards. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-15: CONDITION OF STREET OCCUPANCY AND SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   No Unreasonable Interference: All structures, lines and equipment
erected or installed by operator within the county shall be so located as not
to cause unreasonable interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and
other public ways and places; and to avoid unreasonable interference of
property owners who adjoin any of said streets, alleys or other public ways and
places; and should conform to sketches submitted by operator to the county
superintendent of highways.
   B.   Permit From Others: Operator shall be responsible for securing any
rights of way, easements, permits or agreements from any other persons or
utilities that may be needed by operator for any other reason.
   C.   Temporary Wire Removal For Moving Buildings: Operator shall upon the
request of any person moving a building, temporarily raise or lower its wires.
This work shall be at the expense of the person moving, but at no more than
actual cost to operator. Operator shall be entitled to one week notice.
   D.   Relocation:
      1.   In the event that at any time during the term of this division, the
county shall lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any street, alley
or other public way, operator, upon reasonable notice by the county, shall
(except to the extent that operator's equipment is located on private property)
remove, relay and relocate equipment at the operator's own expense.
      2.   In removing its plant, structures and equipment, the operator must
refill at its own expense, any excavation that shall have been made by it and
shall leave all public ways in as good a condition as that prevailing prior to
the company's removal of its equipment and appliances, without affecting the
electric or telephone cables, wires, or attachments. The county may inspect and
approve the condition of the public ways and public places and cables, wires,
attachments and poles after removal.
   E.   Restoration: In case of any disturbance by operator of pavement,
sidewalks, driveways or other surfacing, operator shall at its own expense and
in a manner approved by the county, replace and restore such places so
disturbed in a condition as before said work was commenced and shall maintain
the restoration in good condition approved by the county superintendent of
highways for the entire period of this franchise.
   In the event of failure by the operator to complete any work required by
this division within the time established and to the satisfaction of the
county, the county may cause such work to be done and the operator must
reimburse the county for the costs thereof within thirty (30) days after
receipt of an itemized list of such costs or the county may recover such costs
from the performance bond.
   F.   Location Of Cable And Equipment: The location of cable and other
equipment upon public ways and places, whether above or below ground, shall be
determined by the county. The operator shall supply the county with a map
which, at all times, shows the location of its cable and hardware.
   G.   Additional Use: The county shall have the right to make additional use
for any public or municipal purpose of any poles or conduits controlled or
maintained exclusively for the operator in or on any street; provided, however,
such use by the county does not interfere with the use by the operator. (Ord.,
2-21-1989)
4-5-16: RESERVATION OF RIGHTS:
   A.   Police Powers: The right is hereby reserved by the county to adopt and
enforce in addition to the provisions contained in this division, such
additional ordinances, rules and regulations as it shall find necessary in
exercise of its police powers.
   B.   Eminent Domain: Nothing in this division shall limit the right of the
county to acquire all or any part of the system through its exercise of eminent
domain in the manner provided by law. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-17: PREFERENTIAL OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Services To Be Equally Available: If economically and technologically
feasible, the operator shall not refuse cable television service to any person
or organization who requests such service for lawful purpose, nor shall an
operator refuse any person or organization the right to access cable pursuant
to provisions of this division. The operator shall not, as to rates, charges,
service facilities, rules, regulations, or in any other respect, make or grant
any unreasonable preference or advantage nor subject any person to any
prejudice or disadvantage. This provision shall not prohibit promotional
campaigns to stimulate subscription to the system or other legitimate uses
thereof; nor shall it prohibit the establishment of a graduated scale of
charges and classified rate schedules to which any consumer coming within such
classifications shall be entitled, so long as it is economically feasible.
(Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-18: ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER:
   A.   County Approval Required: The franchise shall not be assigned or
transferred either in whole or in part, leased, sublet, pledged or mortgaged in
any manner, nor shall title thereto, either legal or equitable, or any right,
interest, or property therein pass to or vest in any person either by the act
of the franchisee or by operation of law, without the prior expressed approval
of the county board. The granting of, or waiving of prior approval shall not
constitute a continuing grant or waiver of the provisions of this section. The
county may require reasonable conditions in connection with such transfer or
assignment. No sale or transfer shall be effective until the transferee has
filed in the office of the county clerk an instrument, duly executed, reciting
the fact of such sale or transfer, and accepting the terms and agreeing to
abide by the conditions of this division. A consent form must be supplied to
the county clerk as witness thereof.
   B.   Assignment: This section shall not prevent the assignment of the
franchise by the operator under any of the following conditions:
      1.   As security for debt,
      2.   To any other operator approved by the county board.
   C.   Transfers: Transfers between affiliates does not require prior county
board approval provided such affiliates meet one of the criteria below and the
transferee agrees to abide by the terms and conditions of this division, and
the franchise as granted to the transferor:
      1.   A wholly owned subsidiary of the operator;
      2.   The parent corporation wholly owning the operator; or
      3.   Another wholly owned subsidiary of such wholly owning parent
corporation.
   D.   Foreclosure Receivership: The franchise herein granted shall not be
assignable or transferable to a trustee or receiver in any bankruptcy
proceeding. Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a part of the
system, or upon the termination of any lease covering all or a substantial part
of the system, the franchisee shall notify the county board of such fact.
(Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-19: TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Grounds For Revocation:
      1.   The county reserves the right to revoke the franchise and rescind
all rights and privileges under the following circumstances:
         a.   If the operator should default in the performance of any of its
obligations under this division and fails to cure default within thirty (30)
days after receipt of written notice of default from the county board.
         b.   If the operator should fail to provide or maintain in full force
and effect the performance bond and liability indemnification insurance
coverages as required herein.
         c.   If a petition is filed by or against the operator under the
bankruptcy act, or any other insolvency or creditors rights law, state or
federal.
         d.   If a receiver, trustee, or liquidator of the operator is applied
for or is appointed to all or part of its assets.
         e.   If the operator makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors.
         f.   If the operator should violate any orders or rulings of any
regulatory body having jurisdiction over the operator unless the operator is
lawfully contesting the legality or applicability of such order or ruling.
         g.   If the operator fails to receive the necessary FCC authorization
within a reasonable period of time, unless such cause is directly attributable
to an action or condition imposed by the county.
         h.   If the operator makes any false, misleading or fraudulent
statements of fact in its application for a franchise or other reports or
information provided to the county board, or the regulatory agencies, or
subscribers.
         i.   If the operator fails to comply with any law, ordinance, rule or
regulation.
      2.   Operator shall not be deemed or declared to be in default under any
of the conditions, provisions, or limitations of this division in any case in
which performance of any such condition, provision, requirement or limitation
is prevented by reason of strikes, injunctions, or any other cause, including
any lawsuit or administrative agency proceedings, reasonably beyond the control
of the operator. In the event that operator's performance is prevented by any
such cause, the time for performance shall be extended by the period during
which such cause was in effect.
   B.   Procedure Upon Revocation: Upon the occurrences of any of the events
enumerated in paragraph 4-5-18A of this section or where stated in another
section, the county board may, upon thirty (30) days' written notice to the
operator citing the reasons alleged to constitute cause for revocation, set a
reasonable time in which the operator must remedy the cause. If, during the
thirty (30) day period the cause shall be remedied to the satisfaction of the
county board, the county board may declare the notice to be null and void. If
the operator, however, fails to remedy the cause within the time specified, the
county board may revoke the franchise. In any event, before a franchise may be
revoked, the operator must be provided with an opportunity to be heard before
the county board. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-20: PROCEDURE TO CONSIDER FRANCHISE RENEWAL:
The procedure to consider renewal of a franchise shall be in conformity with
the cable communications act of 1984 1 . On or before six (6) months prior to
the expiration of the franchise, the operator shall notify the county board
whether it:
   A.   Intends to enter into negotiations with the county board for a renewal
of the franchise with the same or different provisions and shall submit a
proposal that contains the material relevant to renewal; or
   B.   Intends not to seek renewal of its cable television franchise.
   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the operator from applying
for a new franchise in competition with other applicants who apply for a
franchise to commence at the expiration of this franchise. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 USCS § 521 et seq.
4-5-21: CONSTRUCTION OF DIVISION:
   A.   Conflicts: In the event that this division or any part thereof is in
conflict with the provisions of another ordinance, the most restrictive
provision shall apply.
   B.   Severability: If any portion of this division is held invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall
not effect the validity of the remaining portion.
   C.   Prior CATV Ordinances: All prior Ogle County ordinances or parts
thereof in conflict with the provisions of this division are hereby repealed.
   D.   Nonwaiver: The operator shall not be excused from complying with any of
the terms, conditions and provisions of this division by any failure to the
county to insist upon or to seek compliance with any such terms, conditions or
provisions.
   E.   New Developments: The county may amend this franchise upon application
of the operator when necessary to enable the operator to take advantage of any
new developments in the field of cable television which will afford it an
opportunity to more effectively, efficiently, or economically serve its
customers.
   F.   FCC Regulations: Any lawful modification resulting from the amendment
of the rules and regulations governing cable television by the federal
communications commission shall be incorporated into this franchise as of the
date such modifications become effective under FCC regulations, or in the event
no effective date is established, within one year after adoption or at the time
of franchise renewal, whichever occurs first.
   G.   Section Captions: Section captions are for convenience only, and are
not to be used in construing the language of the section. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-22: NOTICES:
All notices, contents, filings, approvals, payments and other communications as
herein provided shall be hand delivered and be deemed made when so delivered,
or at the option of the transmitting party, be deposited, postage prepaid, in
the United States mail addressed to the parties as follows and in such case be
deemed made when received by the county.
 
To the county: Office Of The County Clerk
              Ogle County Courthouse
              Oregon, IL 61061
              (815) 732-3201
 
(Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-23: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Limited Purpose: Any franchise granted by the county board to the
operator is purely and solely for the purpose of using easements to erect and
construct the company's system and is not intended to convey any copyright or
patent privileges whatsoever.
   B.   Control Identified: Officers, boards of directors, and positive and
negative stock control shall be identified and filed with the county clerk
within thirty (30) days after they assume control. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
4-5-24: SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY:
   A.   Subscriber Data: The county, or the operator, or any person shall not,
without prior written authorization from each subscriber so affected, provide
any data identifying or designating subscribers by name, address, or otherwise.
   B.   Subscriber Agreements: Any agreement or contract such as is necessary
between the cable operator and the subscriber shall not be made available to
any other person for review. (Ord., 2-21-1989)
DIVISION 6
LANDFILL OPERATIONS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Solid Waste Management Fund
4-6-3: Fees; Exceptions
4-6-4: Exemptions
4-6-5: Reports And Payments
4-6-6: Cessation Of Operation
4-6-7: Saving Clause, Severability, Repealer
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
ACT: The Illinois environmental protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/5 et seq., and includes the regulations adopted hereunder.
ADMINISTRATOR: The Ogle County health department administrator or his designee.
AGENCY: The environmental protection agency as established by the environmental
protection act 1 .
BOARD: The Illinois pollution control board.
COUNTY: Ogle County, Illinois.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: A waste, or combination of wastes, which, because of its
quantity, concentration or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics,
may cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious, irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness; or
pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of, or
otherwise managed, and which has been identified, by characteristics or
listings, as hazardous pursuant to section 3001 of the resource conservation
and recovery act of 1976, PL 94-580 (42 USCA section 6921), or pursuant to the
act.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A facility permitted by the agency for the disposal of waste
on land meeting the requirements of the act and the resource conservation and
recovery act, PL 94-580 (41 USCA section 6901 et seq.) and regulations
thereunder, and without creating nuisances or hazards to public health or
safety, by confining the refuse to the smallest practical volume and covering
it with a layer of earth at the conclusion of each day's operation, or by such
other methods and intervals as the board may provide by regulation.
SOLID WASTE: Includes demolition materials, food and industrial processing
waste, garden trash, land cleaning wastes, mixed refuse, noncombustible refuse,
rubbish and trash, as those terms are defined in section 3.01 through 3.06 of
the solid waste disposal district act 2 . (Ord., 4-21-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/5 et seq.
2 1. 70 ILCS 3105/1 et seq.
4-6-2: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FUND:
   A.   There is hereby created within the county a "solid waste management
fund" constituted from fees collected pursuant to this division. Interest
received on the monies in the fund shall be credited to the fund.
   B.   Monies in the fund may be accumulated over a period of years to be
expended by the county for solid waste management purposes, including long term
monitoring and maintenance of landfills, planning, implementation, inspection
enforcement and other activities consistent with the solid waste management act
1  and the local solid waste disposal act 2 .
   C.   In April of each year, the county shall prepare and distribute to the
agency a report that details spending plans for monies from the solid waste
management fund. The report will include the following:
      1.   The total monies collected pursuant to this division.
      2.   The most current balance of monies in the fund.
      3.   An itemized current balance of all monies expended from the fund for
the previous year.
      4.   An estimation of monies to be collected for the following three (3)
years pursuant to this division.
      5.   A narrative detailing the general direction and scope of future
expenditures from the fund for one, two (2) and three (3) years. (Ord., 4-21-
1992)
 
Notes
1 2. 410 ILCS 235/1 et seq.
2 3. 415 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
4-6-3: FEES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The county shall assess and collect a fee in the amount set forth
herein from the owner or operator of each sanitary landfill in Ogle County
permitted or required to be permitted by the agency to dispose of solid waste
if the sanitary landfill is owned, controlled and operated by a person other
than the generator of such waste. If a site is contiguous to one or more
landfills owned or operated by the same person, the volumes received by each
landfill shall be combined for purpose of determining the fee. The county shall
deposit all fees collected into the solid waste management fund.
      1.   If more than one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) cubic yards of
nonhazardous solid waste is permanently disposed of at a site in a calendar
year, the owner or operator shall pay a fee of sixty cents ($0.60) per cubic
yard of waste unless the owner or operator weighs the quantity of the solid
waste received with a device for which certification has been obtained under
the weights and measures act 1  in which case the owner or operator shall pay a
fee of one dollar twenty seven cents ($1.27) per ton of solid waste permanently
disposed of.
      2.   If more than one hundred thousand (100,000) cubic yards, but not
more than one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) cubic yards of nonhazardous
solid waste is received at a site in a calendar year, the owner or operator
shall pay a fee of thirty three thousand three hundred fifty dollars
($33,350.00) per year for solid waste permanently disposed of.
      3.   If more than fifty thousand (50,000) cubic yards, but not more than
one hundred thousand (100,000) cubic yards of nonhazardous solid waste is
received at a site in a calendar year, the owner or operator shall pay a fee of
fifteen thousand five hundred dollars ($15,500.00) per year for solid waste
permanently disposed of.
      4.   If more than ten thousand (10,000) cubic yards, but not more than
fifty thousand (50,000) cubic yards of nonhazardous solid waste is received at
a site in a calendar year, the owner or operator shall pay a fee of four
thousand six hundred fifty dollars ($4,650.00) per year for solid waste
permanently disposed of.
      5.   If not more than ten thousand (10,000) cubic yards of nonhazardous
solid waste is received at a site in a calendar year, the owner or operator
shall pay a fee of six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00) per year for solid waste
permanently disposed of.
   B.   The fees set forth in paragraph A of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   Waste which is hazardous waste; or
      2.   Waste which is pollution control waste; or
      3.   Waste from recycling, reclamation or reuse processes which have been
approved by the agency as being designed to remove any contaminant from wastes
so as to render such wastes reusable, provided that the process renders at
least fifty percent (50%) of the waste reusable; or
      4.   Nonhazardous solid waste that is received at a sanitary landfill and
composted or recycled through a process permitted by the agency; or
      5.   Any landfill which is permitted by the agency to receive only
demolition or construction debris or landscape waste. (Ord., 4-21-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 470/1 et seq.
4-6-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The county shall grant exemptions from the fee requirement of this
division for receipt or transport of solid waste meeting all of the following
criteria:
      1.   Receipt of the solid waste is pursuant to a written contract between
the owner or operator of the sanitary landfill and some other person, or
transport of the solid waste is pursuant to a written contract between the
transporter and some other person; and
      2.   The contract for receipt or transport of solid waste was lawfully
executed on or before April 1, 1990; and
      3.   The contract for receipt or transport of solid waste establishes a
fixed fee or compensation, does not allow the operator or transporter to pass
the fee through another party and does not allow voluntary cancellation or
renegotiation of the compensation or fee during the term of the contract.
      4.   Provided, however, that this exemption shall not apply to the
permanent disposal of solid waste under any contract lawfully executed before
June 1, 1986, under which more than one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) cubic
yards (or 50,000 tons) of solid waste is to be permanently disposed of.
   B.   The county shall grant exemptions from the fee requirements of this
division for solid waste meeting of all of the following criteria:
      1.   The waste is nonputrescible and homogeneous and does not contain
free liquids;
      2.   Combustion of the waste would not provide practical energy recovery
or practical reduction in volume; and
      3.   The applicant for exemption demonstrates that it is not
technologically and economically reasonable to recycle or reuse the waste.
   An applicant shall be granted the exemption under this paragraph B upon
providing proof that an exemption has been granted by the agency under 415
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22.16a, for the same waste. The exemption shall be
effective from the effective date of the exemption granted by the agency.
   C.   Exemptions granted under paragraphs A and B of this section shall cause
the solid waste received by an owner or operator of a sanitary landfill to be
disregarded in calculating the volume or weight of solid waste received during
a calendar year under this division.
   D.   Applications for exemptions must be submitted with proof of
satisfaction of all criteria for granting the exemption to the administrator.
The administrator shall notify the applicants in writing of the granting or
denial of an application for exemption.
   E.   Applications for exemptions under paragraph A of this section may be
granted retroactively. Applications for retroactive or prospective exemptions
under that paragraph must be received by the administrator before May 1, 1992.
   Exemptions under paragraph A of this section shall expire upon the
expiration, renewal or amendment of the exempted contract, whichever comes
first.
   F.   It shall be the duty of an owner or operator of a sanitary landfill and
transporter of the solid waste to keep accurate records and to prove to the
satisfaction of the administrator, the volume or weight of solid waste received
under an exemption or exception during a calendar year. (Ord., 4-21-1992)
4-6-5: REPORTS AND PAYMENTS:
   A.   Every owner or operator of a sanitary landfill permitted, or required
to be permitted by the agency and located within Ogle County, Illinois, shall
file a quarterly report specifying the quantities of waste received and the fee
payments due to the county of Ogle. The quarterly solid waste disposal report
shall be due within thirty (30) days following the end of each calendar quarter
and shall be in the form provided by the county. Said reports shall be tendered
to the Ogle County treasurer.
   B.   The Ogle County treasurer shall forward a copy of the report to the
chairman of the Ogle County board and the administrator.
   C.   Every owner or operator of a sanitary landfill shall make payment of
the fees as set forth in this division to the Ogle County treasurer at the time
the report required in paragraph A of this section is filed. (Ord., 4-21-1992)
4-6-6: CESSATION OF OPERATION:
The owner or operator of each sanitary landfill subject to this division shall
notify the administrator in writing if he is intending to terminate the receipt
of solid waste during the calendar year. Unless the termination of operation is
by emergency order of an authorized regulatory agency or court of competent
jurisdiction, notice must be given to the administrator ninety (90) days in
advance of termination. Said notice shall include estimated date of
termination. (Ord., 4-21-1992)
4-6-7: SAVING CLAUSE, SEVERABILITY, REPEALER:
   A.   Nothing in this division shall be construed to affect any suit or
proceeding pending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred,
or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing, under any act or
ordinance hereby repealed by this division; nor shall any just or legal right
or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this division.
   B.   If any provision of this division or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity does not affect other
provisions or applications of this division which can be given effect without
the invalid application or provision and, to this end the provisions of this
division are declared to be severable.
   C.   All ordinances or parts of other ordinances in conflict with the
provisions of this division shall to the extent of the conflict be, and are
hereby repealed. (Ord., 4-21-1992)
DIVISION 7
FALSE ALARMS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Title
4-7-2: Purpose
4-7-3: Construction
4-7-4: Definitions
4-7-5: Notification Required
4-7-6: False Alarms; Response
4-7-7: Governmental Immunity
4-7-8: Penalty
4-7-9: Fines
4-7-1: TITLE:
This division shall be known, cited, and referred to as the FALSE ALARM
ORDINANCE OF OGLE COUNTY. (Ord. 2011-1102, 11-15-2011)
4-7-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this division is to define and abate false alarms. (Ord. 2011-
1102, 11-15-2011)
4-7-3: CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of this division, the definitions hereunder shall be
observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense; words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number; words used in the
masculine gender shall include the female gender; and such inclusive words
shall be reciprocal.
   B.   The word "may" is permissive or discretionary.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary. (Ord. 2011-1102,
11-15-2011)
4-7-4: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this division, the words and phrases listed hereunder have the
meanings designated herein, except when a particular context clearly requires a
different meaning:
ALARM ADMINISTRATOR: The Ogle County sheriff or any other person designated by
the sheriff.
ALARM BUSINESS: Any business operated by a person who is engaged in the
activity of altering, installing, leasing, maintaining, moving, repairing,
replacing, selling, servicing, or responding to an emergency alarm system, or
which causes any of these activities to take place.
ALARM SYSTEM: An assembly of equipment arranged to signal the presence of
hazard requiring urgent attention to which the Ogle County sheriff's department
or fire/ambulance service departments are expected to respond.
ALARM USER: Any person or business on whose premises an alarm system is
maintained other than alarm systems on a motor vehicle.
FALSE ALARM: The activation of an alarm system through mechanical or electronic
failure, malfunction, improper installation, or the negligence of the owner or
lessee of an alarm system or his employees or agents, except that the following
shall not be considered false alarms: a) alarms occurring on a repeated basis
without apparent cause within the first thirty (30) days after installation of
the alarm system and where continuous effort, in the sole opinion of the alarm
administrator, is being made jointly by the alarm user, the alarm business, and
any other concerned person to correct the malfunction expeditiously; b) alarms
caused by actual illegal entry or attempted entry of which there is visible
evidence; c) alarms caused by an on premises fire; d) alarms intentionally
caused by a person acting under a reasonable belief that a need exists to call
the police or fire/ambulance services; e) alarms caused by tornados,
earthquakes, major floods, or other natural disasters or conditions; and f)
alarms which are notified to the Ogle County sheriff's department to be
unfounded before the Ogle County sheriff's department or fire/ambulance
services respond to the alarm.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, trust, estate, club,
association, or corporation. As applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof; as applied to corporations it
includes the officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible for the
act referred to. (Ord. 2011-1102, 11-15-2011)
4-7-5: NOTIFICATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, located at an
address that is within the area serviced by the Ogle County sheriff, to lease
or own an alarm system, or be in control of any premises, including single-
family and multi-family dwellings and business places, wherein an alarm system
is operated or maintained without first having notified the Ogle County
sheriff's department of such system. No notification shall be required for
alarm systems in operation prior to the enactment of this division. No
notification shall be required for alarm systems contained in or on vehicles.
Any person, firm, or corporation in violation of this section shall be guilty
of a petty offense and shall pay a fine to the county within thirty (30) days
of receipt of notice of such offense in the sum(s) found in section
4-7-9 of this division. Failure to pay the fine (within said 30 days) shall
result in prosecution for violating this division and upon conviction or
supervision the fine shall be not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The fine payable upon receipt of
notice and prior to any prosecution shall be paid to the county of Ogle and
delivered to the Ogle County sheriff. (Ord. 2011-1102, 11-15-2011)
4-7-6: FALSE ALARMS; RESPONSE:
   A.   Except where an alarm would not be considered a false alarm pursuant to
section
4-7-4 of this division, if the Ogle County sheriff responds to more than three
(3) false alarms in a calendar year, the alarm user or agency shall be guilty
of a petty offense and shall pay a fine to the county within thirty (30) days
of receipt of notice of such offense in the sum(s) found in section
4-7-9 of this division. Failure to pay the fine (within said 30 days) shall
result in prosecution for violating this division and upon conviction or
supervision the fine shall be not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The fine payable upon receipt of
notice and prior to any prosecution shall be paid to the county of Ogle and
delivered to the Ogle County sheriff.
   B.   If the Ogle County sheriff's department responds to a false alarm and
it is determined the cause of false alarm was the negligence of the alarm
business for failing to contact the Ogle County sheriff's department of work
being done on the alarm, the alarm business shall be guilty of a petty offense
and shall pay a fine to the county within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice
of such offense in the sum(s) found in section
4-7-9 of this division. Failure to pay the fine (within said 30 days) shall
result in prosecution for violating this division and upon conviction or
supervision the fine shall be not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The fine payable upon receipt of
notice and prior to any prosecution shall be paid to the county of Ogle and
delivered to the Ogle County sheriff. (Ord. 2011-1102, 11-15-2011)
4-7-7: GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY:
Notification pursuant to section
4-7-5 of this division or the existence of this division is not intended to,
nor will it, create a contract, duty or obligation, either expressed or
implied, of response. Any and all liability and consequential damage resulting
from the failure to respond to an alarm is hereby disclaimed and governmental
immunity as provided by law is retained. Alarm user acknowledges that law
enforcement response may be influenced by factors such as the availability of
sheriff units, priority of calls, weather conditions, traffic conditions,
emergency conditions, staffing levels, and prior response history. (Ord. 2011-
1102, 11-15-2011)
4-7-8: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified, any violation of any section of this division by
any person, firm, or corporation shall be subject to a fine found in section
4-7-9 of this division. (Ord. 2011-1102, 11-15-2011)
4-7-9: FINES:
 
Section Description                                       Fine Amount
4-7-5   Failure to notify about the existence of an alarm $100.00
        system
        First 3 false alarms                              Warning with no fine
4-7-6A  Fourth through tenth false alarm                  $100.00 (each alarm)
        Eleventh and each subsequent false alarm          $200.00 (each alarm)
4-7-6B  Alarm business negligence                         $100.00 (each alarm)
 
(Ord. 2011-1102, 11-15-2011)
DIVISION 8
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION
SECTION:
4-8-1: Title
4-8-2: Definitions
4-8-3: Solicitor Regulations
4-8-4: Registration
4-8-5: Enforcement
4-8-6: Penalty
4-8-1: TITLE:
This division shall be known, cited and referred to as the DOOR TO DOOR
SOLICITATION ORDINANCE OF OGLE COUNTY (Ord. 2025-0302, 3-18-2025)
4-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply.
OWNER OR OCCUPANT: Any person who is the owner, resident, or tenant of a
residence.
RESIDENCE: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one
or more persons contained within any type of building or structure.
SOLICITING: Any one or more of the following activities without prior consent
of the owner or occupant:
   A.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs, real property or personal property or services of any kind for any
consideration whatsoever;
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind, or character; or
   C.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers, and every other type or kind of publication.
SOLICITOR: A person engaged in the act of soliciting, including: hawkers,
peddlers, itinerant merchants and transient vendors of merchandise. Except that
minors under the age of eighteen (18) who participate in solicitation
activities for fundraising purposes only and persons exercising their first
amendment rights, including the free exercise of religion, the freedom of
speech or press, the right of assembly and not engaged soliciting shall not be
deemed to be solicitors. (Ord. 2025-0302, 3-18-2025)
4-8-3: SOLICITOR REGULATIONS:
   A.   Solicitors. A solicitor who solicits, or assists in solicitation, in an
area of Ogle County must conform to the following regulations:
      1.   Register with the Ogle County sheriff, at no charge to the
registrant.
      2.   Only solicit between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) a.m. and
seven o’clock (7:00) p.m.
      3.   It shall be the duty of every solicitor entering upon any
residential property to be observant for the presence of a "No Solicitors" or
"No soliciting" sign. If such a sign is present the solicitor shall immediately
and peacefully depart from the residence.
      4.   Any solicitor who has gained entry onto any residential property
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do
so by the owner or occupant.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon any premises and ring
the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon or rap or
knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner to attract the
attention of the owner or occupant of such residence for the purpose of
securing an audience with the owner or occupant thereof and engage in
soliciting contrary to the notice exhibited.
   B.   Notice. Every owner or occupant who desires no solicitors at his or her
residence shall provide notice of such by:
      1.   Exhibiting or posting upon or near the front entrance door to the
residence a card, decal or sticker containing the following language or
language similar to the following:
NO SOLICITORS or NO SOLICITING
      2.   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor that solicitation of the owner or occupant of the premises is
prohibited.
      3.   Lack of notice shall not prohibit an owner or occupant from verbally
requesting that a solicitor leave his or her premises. (Ord. 2025-0302, 3-18-
2025)
4-8-4: REGISTRATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to engage in, or assist
in, business as a solicitor for the purpose of soliciting orders, sales,
subscriptions, or business of any kind, without first registering with the Ogle
County sheriff's office and obtaining a certificate of registration. A copy of
the certificate of registration shall be maintained at the Ogle County
sheriff's office.
   B.   The solicitor shall provide his or her complete name, address and date
of birth along with a recent picture identification, his or her signature, the
name of his or her employer, the nature of his or her product or services in
which he or she is soliciting, the names of the manufacturers of such products
or of the organization which he or she is representing and the proposed method
of operation, i.e. door-to-door sales.
   C.   Solicitor registrations are not transferable from person to person or
from business or employer to business or employer. If this information required
to be provided for registration changes, the solicitor shall relinquish his or
her current registration and obtain a new certificate of registration.
   D.   No person shall make any false statement upon an application for a
certificate of registration. Providing false information will be cause for
immediate revocation of the certificate of registration.
   E.   Each person shall, at all times while engaged in, or assisting in, the
business of soliciting Ogle County carry upon his or her person the certificate
of registration or a legible photocopy thereof issued pursuant to this chapter.
This certificate shall be exhibited by the solicitor whenever he or she is
requested to do so by an Ogle County sheriff's deputy or by any person being
solicited.
   F.   Any registration pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the Ogle
County sheriff upon conviction of or plea of guilty to any violation by the
solicitor of this chapter, or any other similar ordinance, or any state
statute.
   G.   Registration shall expire on December 31st of each year and must be
renewed by the solicitor. (Ord. 2025-0302, 3-18-2025)
4-8-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Violations of this chapter shall be enforced by the Ogle County sheriff or his
or her designee(s) and, at his or her discretion, may proceed either through a
notice to appear before the 15th Judicial Circuit Court or through
administrative adjudication pursuant to the Ogle County administrative
adjudication ordinance. (Ord. 2025-0302, 3-18-2025)
4-8-6: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who violates or assists in the violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be deemed to have committed an ordinance violation and shall
be fined as set forth below. Each twenty-four (24) hour period in which, or
during which, a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Ogle County sheriff's office citation filed in circuit court. If the
ordinance violation is cited for enforcement before the 15th Judicial Circuit,
the fine amount shall be as follows:
      1.   The first violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of
no less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250).
      2.   A second violation of this chapter by the same person, within a
twelve (12) month period shall be punishable by a fine of no less than five
hundred dollars ($500).
      3.   A third or subsequent violation of this chapter by the same person,
within a twelve (12) month period shall be punishable by a fine of no less than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750).
   C.   Ogle County administrative adjudication citation of violation. If the
ordinance violation is cited for enforcement through the Ogle County
administrative adjudication process, the minimum fine amount shall be one
hundred fifteen dollars ($115) for each violation. (Ord. 2025-0302, 3-18-2025)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMAL CONTROL
General Provisions   1
Definitions   2
Permits, Fees, Licenses, Registrations   3
Inspections   4
Dangerous And Vicious Animals   5
Dangerous Dogs   5A
Vicious Dogs   5B
Public Nuisance   6
Biting Animals   7
Rabies; Rabies Vaccination   8
Exotic Animals; Wildlife   9
Cruelty To Animals   10
Violation Of Division 10 Of This Chapter   11
Penalties And Remedies   12
DIVISION 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Title
5-1-2: Policy And Purpose
5-1-3: Scope
5-1-1: TITLE:
This division shall be known and cited as "An Article regulating Animal Control
for Ogle County, Illinois." (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-1-2: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of this division is to provide protection for the people of Ogle
County, to ensure their health, safety, and welfare, and to provide harmonious
relationships between people and animals by:
   A.   Protecting the residents of Ogle County from rabies by specifying such
preventive and control measures as may be deemed necessary;
   B.   Providing security to residents from annoyance, intimidation and injury
from dogs and other animals;
   C.   Protecting animals from improper use, abuse, neglect, and inhumane
treatment and health hazards;
   D.   Encouraging responsible pet ownership;
   E.   Educating the public in rabies and other animal related issues;
   F.   Providing for the assessment of penalties for violations and for the
enforcement and administration of this division. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-1-3: SCOPE:
This division shall include the following provisions:
   A.   Duties of owners to control all domestic and exotic or zoo animals in
their custody;
   B.   Duties of owners to vaccinate dogs and companion cats in their custody
against rabies;
   C.   Duties of owners to register all dogs and companion cats in their
custody with the Department;
   D.   Duties of the Administrator in cases of dog and cat quarantine;
   E.   Provisions for impoundment or confinement of biting animals; and
   F.   Provisions for penalties to owners who cruelly treat or neglect animals
in their possession. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
DIVISION 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions Of Words And Terms
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND TERMS:
               A veterinarian licensed by the State of Illinois and appointed pursuant to this
               division, or in the event a veterinarian cannot be found and appointed pursuant
ADMINISTRATOR: to this division, a non-veterinarian may serve as Administrator under this
               division. In the event the Administrator is not a veterinarian, the
               Administrator shall defer to Deputy Administrator regarding all medical
               decisions.
               Shall be made by the County Board Chairman with the consent of the County Board.
               Appointments shall be made as necessary to keep this position filled at all
               times. The Administrator may appoint as many Deputy Administrators and Animal
               Control Officers to aid him or her as authorized by the Board. The compensation
               for the Administrator, Deputy Administrators, and Animal Control shall be fixed
               by the Board. The Administrator may be removed from office by the County Board
               Chairman, with the consent of the County Board.
ADMINISTRATOR, The Board shall provide necessary personnel, training, equipment, supplies, and
APPOINTMENT    facilities, and shall operate pounds or contract for their operation as
OF:            necessary to effectuate the program. The Board may enter into contracts or
               agreements with persons to assist in the operation of the program.
               The Board shall be empowered to utilize monies from their General Corporate Fund
               to effectuate the intent of this Act.
               The Board is authorized by ordinance to require the registration and micro
               chipping of dogs and shall impose an individual animal registration fee. All
               persons selling dogs or keeping registries of dogs shall cooperate and provide
               information to the Administrator as required by Board ordinance, including
               sales, number of litters, and ownership of dogs.
ANIMAL:        Every living creature, other than man, which may be affected by rabies.
ANIMAL,        An animal that is commonly considered to be, or is considered by the owner to be
COMPANION:     a pet, including, but not limited to canines, felines, and equines.
ANIMAL CONTROL Any facility licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture and approved by
FACILITY:      the Administrator for the purpose of enforcing this division and used as a
               shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned or unwanted animals.
ANIMAL CONTROL Any person appointed by the Administrator and approved by the HEW Committee and
OFFICER:       County Board to perform duties as set forth in this division and/or state
               statutes pertaining to animals.
ANIMAL,        Any owned animal that is either secured by a leash or lead or under voice
CONTROL OR     control or within the premises of its owner or confined within a crate or cage
RESTRAINT:     or confined within a vehicle or on the premises of another person with the
               consent of that person.
               Dogs, cats, rabbits, rodents, birds, reptiles and any other species of animal
ANIMAL,        that are sold or retained as household pets and further includes farm animals
DOMESTIC:      but shall not include skunks, non-human primates and any other species of wild,
               exotic, fur-bearing mammal or carnivorous animal that may be further restricted
               in this division.
               Shall include but is not limited to the following: Fells concolor (i.e. Cougar,
               mountain lions, Panther, Puma, Catamount, Florida Panther); Panthera (i.e. Lion,
               Tiger, Leopard, Jaguar, Snow Leopard); Neofelis (i.e. Clouded Leopard; Acinonyx
               (i.e. Cheetah); Fells wiedi (i.e. Margay); Fells lynx (i.e. Lynx) Fells rufus
               (i.e. Bobcat); Leopardus pardalis (i.e. Ocelot); Yagouaroundi (i.e.
               Jaguardundis); Hyaenidae (i.e. Hyenas); Canis Lupus (i.e. Gray Wolf, Timber
               Wolf, White Wolf); Canis Rufus (i.e. Red Wolf); Alopex lagopus (i.e. Artic fox,
               Polar Fox, White Fox, Blue Fox); Uracyon cinereoargenteus (i.e. Gray Fox); Canis
               latrans (i.e. Coyote); Ursidae (i.e. Black Bear, Brown or Grizzly Bear, Polar
ANIMAL,        Bear); Proboscides (i.e. Elephant); non-human primates; Crocodylia (i.e.
EXOTIC:        Crocodiles, Alligator); all species of the following families or genera of
               Squamata (snakes and lizards): Helodermatidae (i.e. Gila monsters); Elapidae
               (i.e. Cobras, coral snakes); Hydrophiidae (i.e. sea snakes); Viperidae (i.e.
               vipers and pit vipers); Atractaspidae (i.e. burrowing asps) Dispholidus typus
               (i.e. boomslang snake); Thelotornis kiutlandii (i.e. twig snake); Rhabdophis
               (i.e. keelback snakes); Eunectes murinus (i.e. Green anaconda); Python sebae
               (i.e. African rock python); Python molurus (i.e. Burmese python); Python
               reticulates (i.e. Reticulated python); Liasis amethstinus (i.e. Amethystine
               python); or any other animal or reptile deemed dangerous by the Ogle County
               Animal Control Department, Illinois Department of Agriculture, or Illinois
               Department of Conservation.
ANIMALS, FARM: Species of fowl, ovine (i.e. sheep), caprine (i.e. goat), bovine (i.e. cattle),
               porcine (i.e. pig) and equine (i.e. horse).
               Any facility licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture and
ANIMAL REFUGE: approved by the Administrator which accepts seized, stray, homeless, abandoned
               or unwanted exotic animals.
ANIMAL, STRAY: Any domestic dog that is not under control and constraint.
               Seizure of a person with the jaws or teeth of any animal capable of transmitting
BITE:          rabies so that the person so seized has been wounded or pierced and further
               includes contact of the saliva of such animal with any break or abrasion of the
               skin.
BUSINESS DAY:  Any day including holidays that the animal control facility is open to the
               public for animal reclaims.
CAT:           Any member of the family Felidae.
               Any commercial variety show licensed by the United States Department of
CIRCUS:        Agriculture and approved by the Administrator, featuring animal acts for public
               entertainment, and further includes the place where these animals are housed
               when not performing.
               Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner or its agent, to an escape-
CONFINED:      proof building, house, or other enclosure away from other animals and the
               public.
               A.   Any individual dog anywhere other than upon the property of the owner or
               custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by its owner or
               custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would believe poses
DANGEROUS DOG: a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical injury or death to
               a person or companion animal; or
               B.   A dog that, without justification, bites a person and does not cause
               serious physical injury.
DEPARTMENT:    The Department of Agriculture of the State of Illinois.
DEPUTY         A veterinarian licensed by the State of Illinois, appointed by the
ADMINISTRATOR: Administrator.
DOG:           All members of the family Canidae.
               Any facility licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture and approved by
EDUCATIONAL    the Administrator and which keeps exotic animals with the sole purpose and
INSTITUTION:   practice of educating people in regard to the species' value and natural
               history.
               A fence or structure of at least six (6) feet in height, forming or causing an
               enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and suitable to
               confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures that may be taken by
               the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a vicious dog within the enclosure.
               Such enclosure shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed with secure
ENCLOSURE:     sides top and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal from escaping
               from the enclosure. Additional measures to ensure the animal is not able to
               escape by digging under the fence line should be taken. If the enclosure is a
               room within a residence, it cannot have direct ingress from or egress to the
               outdoors unless it leads directly to an enclosed pen and the door must be
               locked. A vicious dog may be allowed to move freely within the entire residence
               if it is muzzled at all times.
               A cat that:
               A.   Is born in the wild or is the offspring of an owned or feral cat and is not
FERAL CAT:     socialized;
               B.   Is a formerly owned cat that has been abandoned and is no longer
               socialized; or
               C.   Lives on a farm.
FOUND TO BE    As defined herein, requires a finding by the circuit court and entry of an order
VICIOUS:       based on that finding.
FUR-BEARING    The following specific species; mink, muskrat, raccoon, striped skunk, weasel,
MAMMALS:       bobcat, opossum, beaver, river otter, badger, red fox, gray fox, and coyote.
FUR-BEARING    A farm, ranch or facility which breeds and raises fur-bearing mammals for the
FARM:          purpose of commercial enterprise.
GUARD DOG:     A dog specifically trained for guard duties or a dog used by a municipal or
               police department for the purposes of patrol and protection.
IMPOUNDED:     Taken into the custody of the Ogle County Animal Control.
INTACT ANIMAL: An animal that has not been spayed or neutered.
INOCULATION    The injection of an antirabies vaccine approved by the Illinois Department of
AGAINST        Agriculture administered by a licensed veterinarian.
RABIES:
               Any building, structure or enclosure used or intended to be used primarily for
KENNEL,        the housing of any number of animals. Commercial activities include, but are not
COMMERCIAL:    limited to, animal services, such as public boarding, sale of animals and sale
               of items or products related to animal care.
               Any building, structure or enclosure used or intended to be used for housing of
               animals kept for the purpose of raising, breeding, training, exhibiting and sale
KENNEL,        subject to the appropriate requirements of this di. All animals kept must be
PRIVATE:       owned by or co-owned by or under contract to the owner or lessor of the site. At
               the time of the sale of an animal, supplies relating to the pet's care may be
               sold.
               A cord, rope, strap, nylon strap or chain which shall be securely fastened to
LEASH:         the collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient
               strength to keep such dog or other animal under control.
LICENSED       A veterinarian licensed by the State in which he or she engages in the practice
VETERINARIAN:  of veterinary medicine.
               A computer chip which has a unique identification number programmed into it. The
MICROCHIP:     chip is encased in a smooth, strong biocompatible material, and is small enough
               to fit into a hypodermic needle. Once an animal is injected with the chip, it
               can be identified throughout its life by this unique number.
               Any person having a right of property in an animal or keeps or harbors an
               animal, or who has it in his or her care, or acts as its custodian, or who
OWNER:         knowingly permits a dog or other domestic animal to remain on any premises
               occupied by him or her for a period of seven (7) days. "Owner" does not include
               a feral cat caretaker who participated in a trap spay/neuter, return or release
               program.
               Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society, association or other
PERSON:        legal entity, any public or private institution, municipal corporation or
               political subdivision, or any other business unit.
               Any dog which molests passers-by or passing vehicles; attacks other animals;
PUBLIC         trespasses on school grounds; is repeatedly at large; damages private or public
NUISANCE:      property; or barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous untimely
               fashion.
PHYSICAL       The impairment of a physical condition.
INJURY:
PHYSICAL       A physical injury that creates a substantial risk of death or that causes death,
INJURY,        serious disfigurement, protracted impairment of health, impairment of the
SERIOUS:       function of any bodily organ, or plastic surgery.
               Any school (except an elementary or secondary school), institution,
               organization, or person that uses or intends to use live animals in research,
               tests, or experiments, and that:
               A.   Purchases or transports live animals in commerce; or
RESEARCH       B.   Receives funds under a grant, award, loan or contract from a department,
FACILITY:      agency or instrument of the United States for the purpose of carrying out
               research, tests, or experiments.
               Such facility must be approved by and meet all requirements of the Animal and
               Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, and Illinois
               Department of Agriculture.
               Within the meaning of this division, requires a dog or animal, off the premises
               of the dog owner's owned or real property to be controlled by a leash and held
RESTRAINT:     by a competent person capable of controlling such animal.; at "heel" of a
               competent person; within a vehicle being driven, parked or stopped.; accompanied
               by a person competent in commonly accepted methods of control.
SHELTER,       Shelter sufficient for the animal to maintain its body heat and functions
ADEQUATE:      without drawing upon the necessary constituents of its own body and that
               minimizes the potential for overheating.
SUPPORT DOG:   A dog trained by a recognized organization to assist the handicapped.
               A dog that, without justification, attacks a person and causes serious physical
VICIOUS DOG:   injury or death or any individual dog that has been found to be a "dangerous
               dog" upon three (3) separate occasions.
ZOOLOGICAL     Any park, building, cage, enclosure, or other structure or premises in which a
PARK:          live animal or animals are kept for public exhibition or viewing. (Ord. O-2019-
               0904, 9-17-2019)
 
DIVISION 3
PERMITS, FEES, LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: County Dog And Companion Cat Registration
5-3-2: Registration Tags; Unlawful Possession
5-3-3: Late Registration
5-3-4: New County Resident
5-3-5: Former County Resident
5-3-6: Change Of Ownership
5-3-7: Registration Fee To County Treasurer
5-3-8: Registration Tags
5-3-9: Schedule Of Fees
5-3-1: COUNTY DOG AND COMPANION CAT REGISTRATION:
   A.   Every owner (except for Animal Control Facilities licensed by the
Illinois Department of Agriculture) of a dog or companion cat four months or
more of age shall register such dog or companion cat and shall pay an annual
registration fee for said dog or companion cat to the Ogle County Animal
Control. Upon payment of the required fee, as set forth in Section
5-3-9 of this Division, and compliance with rabies vaccination Section 8 of
this Division, a registration tag shall be issued.
   B.   When an owner fails to register his or her dog or companion cat, Ogle
County Animal Control shall cause the registration fee to be collected from the
owner.
   C.   The owner of any dog or companion cat which has been determined by a
licensed veterinarian to be too ill to be vaccinated, or where rabies
vaccination would be contraindicated, shall register such dog or companion cat
annually in accordance with fees designated in Section
5-3-9. The veterinarian shall issue correspondence to the owner for said dog or
companion cat, clearly stating why it is medically contraindicated to vaccinate
the dog or companion cat. The owner is still required to pay registration fees.
(Ord. O-2109-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-3-2: REGISTRATION TAGS; UNLAWFUL POSSESSION:
Registration tags shall not be transferred from one dog or companion cat to
another, nor shall a person affix a registration tag to a dog or companion cat
other than the animal for which the tag was issued. A person shall not
counterfeit, alter, obliterate or attempt to counterfeit, alter or obliterate
any rabies registration tag or vaccination certificate. (Ord. O-2109-0904, 9-
17-2019)
5-3-3: LATE REGISTRATION:
Failure of an owner to register their dog or companion cat within thirty (30)
days of rabies vaccination will result in an additional fee as specified in
Section
5-3-9. (Ord. O-2109-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-3-4: NEW COUNTY RESIDENT:
When a person moves into Ogle County and has a current vaccination and
registration tag from the County from which they moved, that person shall
register his or her dog or companion cat with Ogle County within sixty (60)
days of residency. Such registration may be obtained at the cost of a
replacement tag as designated in Section
5-3-9. Registration tags issued are based on the vaccination date, but in no
case shall tags issued at the replacement tag cost be valid for more than
twelve (12) months. (Ord. O-2109-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-3-5: FORMER COUNTY RESIDENT:
When a person moves from Ogle County, that person shall notify Animal Control
in order to remove his or her dog or companion cat registration information
from the data base. (Ord. O-2109-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-3-6: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP:
If the ownership of a dog or companion cat changes, the new owner shall
register the dog or companion cat within thirty (30) days of said change of
ownership. No additional fee shall be charged to a new owner for the
registration of the dog or cat, which has been previously registered in Ogle
County during the course of the same calendar year. Change of ownership may be
proven by a bill of sale, evidence of the previous registration or letter from
the previous owner relinquishing the ownership of the dog or companion cat.
Animals abandoned by a tenant become the responsibility of the property owner.
Previous owner shall also notify Ogle County Animal Control of any change in
ownership or death. Failure to notify shall result in a fine of seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) payable to Ogle County Animal Control. (Ord. O-2109-0904, 9-
17-2019)
5-3-7: REGISTRATION FEE TO COUNTY TREASURER:
All registration fees collected shall be remitted to the County Treasurer, who
shall place such monies in an Animal Control Fund. This fund is to be set up
for the purpose of paying costs of the Animal Control Program. (Ord. O-2109-
0904, 9-17-2019)
5-3-8: REGISTRATION TAGS:
Rabies vaccination tags approved by the Illinois Department of Agriculture
shall bear the following inscription: Rabies Vaccination; tag No., name of
County and year. This tag shall also serve as the registration tag and no dog
or companion cat shall be deemed officially rabies vaccinated unless this tag
along with the official registration certificate signed by a licensed
veterinarian has been issued by the Ogle County Animal Control Department. Such
tags shall be worn on the collar or harness of the animal for which the tag and
certificate was issued except when confined. Each year will be distinguished by
a tag of a color prescribed by the Ogle County Animal Control. (Ord. O-2109-
0904, 9-17-2019)
5-3-9: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
The following fees shall be required 1 :
   A.   Fees for intact Dog over 9 months of age :
      1.   Thirty-four dollars ($34.00) for a one year tag with one year
vaccination. This includes ten dollars ($10.00) to the Ogle County Pet
Population Control Fund. If microchipped there is a five dollar ($5.00)
discount.
      2.   Ninety-five dollars ($95.00) for a three (3) year registration with
three (3) year vaccination. This includes thirty dollars ($30.00) to the Ogle
County Pet Population Control Fund. If microchipped there is a fifteen dollars
($15.00) discount.
   B.   Fees for spayed or neutered dog and dogs less than 9 months of age:
      1.   Nineteen dollars ($19.00) for a one year registration with a one
year vaccination. If microchipped there is a five dollars ($5.00) discount.
      2.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for a three year registration with a three
year vaccination. If microchipped there is a fifteen dollars ($15.00) discount.
   C.   Fees for intact companion cat over nine (9) months of age:
      1.   Twenty-nine dollars ($29.00) for a one year tag with one year
vaccination. This includes ten dollars ($10.00) to the Ogle County Pet
Population Control Fund. If microchipped there is a five dollars ($5.00)
discount.
      2.   Eighty dollars ($80.00) for a three (3) year registration with three
(3) year vaccination. This includes thirty dollars ($30.00) to the Ogle County
Pet Population Control Fund. If microchipped there is a fifteen ($15.00)
discount.
   D.   Fees for spayed or neutered companion cat and companion cats less than
nine (9) months of age:
      1.   Seventeen dollars ($17.00) for a one year registration with a one
(1) year vaccination. If microchipped there is a five dollars ($5.00) discount.
      2.   Forty dollars ($40.00) for a three year registration with a three
(3) year vaccination. If microchipped there is a fifteen dollars ($15.00)
discount.
   E.   Late Registration Fee: Five dollars ($5.00) if past the fifteenth
(15th) of the month after the registration was due and ten dollars ($10.00) if
after the end of the month after the registration was due.
   F.   Replacement Tag Fee: First tag is free. Any tags thereafter are regular
price.
   G.   Adoption Fee (dogs and cats) (per animal, includes: heartworm test for
dogs, spay/neuter, microchip, rabies vaccination and one year registration). To
be set by the Animal Control Administrator and reviewed at the beginning of
each calendar year.
   H.   Reasonable fees for euthanasia and body care shall be established by
the Animal Control Administrator.
   I.   Annual status fee for dangerous dog(due at time of determination and
each year thereafter as long as dog resides in Ogle County): one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   J.   Impound fee: twenty-five dollars ($25) for first time and fifty dollars
($50.00) for subsequent times in the same calendar year.
   K.   Boarding fee: to be established at the beginning of each year by the
Administrator.
   L.   Annual status fee for vicious dog (due at time of determination and
each year thereafter as long as dog resides in Ogle County) - two hundred
dollars ($200.00). (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019; amd. Ord. 2021-0902, 9-21-
2021)
 
Notes
     All Animals Micro-chipped receive a five dollars ($5.00) reduction in
1 registration fees. Plus a spay or neuter certificate from licensed
  veterinarian is required.
DIVISION 4
INSPECTIONS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Commercial Kennels
5-4-2: Access To Premises
5-4-1: COMMERCIAL KENNELS:
The Administrator shall cooperate with and assist, when necessary, the Illinois
Department of Agriculture in inspections and enforcement of State Laws, Rules
and Regulations regarding Commercial Kennels. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-4-2: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter and making
inspections hereunder, the Administrator, Animal Control Officer, or any
officer of the law may enter upon private premises, provided that the entry
shall not be made into any building that is a person's residence, to apprehend
a straying dog or other animal, a dangerous or vicious dog or other animal, or
a dog, cat or other animal thought to be infected with rabies. If after request
therefore, the owner of such dog, cat or other animal shall refuse to deliver
the dog or other animal to the officer, the owner shall be in violation of this
Division and the Illinois Animal Control Act. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
DIVISION 5
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
ARTICLE A. DANGEROUS DOGS
SECTION:
5-5A-1: Determination
5-5A-2: Exemptions
5-5A-3: Penalties
5-5A-4: Leash
5-5A-5: Appeal
5-5A-1: DETERMINATION:
In order to have a dog deemed dangerous, the Administrator must:
   A.   Send within ten (10) business days of the Administrator becoming aware
of the alleged infraction, notifications to the owner of the alleged
infractions, and of the fact of the initiation of an investigation;
   B.   Afford the owner an opportunity to meet with the Administrator prior to
the making of a determination;
   C.   Conduct a thorough investigation, in which he may gather any medical or
veterinary evidence and interview witnesses; and
   D.   Make a detailed written report recommending a finding that the dog be
deemed dangerous.
The Deputy Administrator, animal control officer, or law enforcement agent may
ask the Administrator, or his or her designee, to deem a dog to be "dangerous".
No dog shall be deemed a "dangerous dog" unless shown to be a dangerous dog by
a preponderance of the evidence. The owner shall be sent immediate notification
of the determination by registered or certified mail that includes a complete
description of the appeal process. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-5A-2: EXEMPTIONS:
A dog shall not be declared dangerous if the Administrator, or his or her
designee, determines the conduct of the dog was justified because either:
   A.   The threat was sustained by a person who at the time was committing a
crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog or was committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon the premises or property occupied by the
owner of the animal;
   B.   The threatened person was tormenting, abusing, assaulting, or
physically threatening the dog or its offspring;
   C.   The injured, threatened, or killed companion animal was attacking or
threatening to attack the dog or its offspring; or
   D.   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting itself, its
owner, custodian, or a member of its household, kennel, or offspring.
Testimony of a certified applied behaviorist, a board certified veterinary
behaviorist, or other recognized expert may be relevant to the determination of
whether the dog's behavior was justified pursuant to the provisions of this
section. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-5A-3: PENALTIES:
If deemed dangerous, the Administrator, or his or her designee, shall order the
dog to be spayed or neutered within fourteen (14) days at the owner's expense
and micro-chipped, if not already, and one or more of the following as deemed
appropriate under the circumstances and necessary for the protection of the
public:
   A.   Evaluation of the dog by a certified applied behaviorist, a board
certified veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert in the field and
completion of training or other treatment as deemed appropriate by the expert.
The owner of the dog shall be responsible for all costs associated with
evaluations and training ordered under this subsection;
   B.   Direct supervision by an adult eighteen (18) years of age or older
whenever the animal is on public premises;
   C.   That the dangerous dog be muzzled whenever it is on public premises in
a manner that will prevent it from biting any person or animal, but that shall
not injure the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration; or
No owner or keeper of a dangerous dog shall sell or give away the dog without
providing notification, including the new owner's name and address, to the
Administrator.
If an owner fails to comply with these requirements, Ogle County Animal Control
shall impound the dog and the owner shall pay a two hundred dollars ($200.00)
fine plus impoundment fees to Ogle County Animal Control. Fines may be waived
if owner elects to euthanize dog. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-5A-4: LEASH:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or recklessly permit any dangerous
dog to leave the premises of its owner when not under control by leash or other
recognized control methods. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-5A-5: APPEAL:
The owner of a dog found to be a dangerous dog pursuant to this division by the
Administrator may, within seven (7) business days of receipt of notification of
the determination, request an appeal of the dangerous dog determination. The
Administrator may determine that the dog shall be confined at an Animal Control
Facility during the appeal process and that the owner shall post bond in
advance for anticipated boarding fees.
Until the order has been reviewed and at all times during the appeal process,
the owner shall comply with the requirements set forth by the Administrator.
All costs relating to the compliance of requirements shall be borne by the
owner. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
ARTICLE B. VICIOUS DOGS
SECTION:
5-5B-1: Vicious Dog Determination
5-5B-2: Vicious Dog Exemptions
5-5B-3: Penalties For Dog Found To Be Vicious
5-5B-4: Vicious Dog Enclosure
5-5B-5: Impoundment Of Vicious Dog
5-5B-6: Pending Vicious Dog Determination
5-5B-1: VICIOUS DOG DETERMINATION:
In order to have a dog deemed "vicious," the Administrator, Deputy
Administrator, or law enforcement officer must:
   A.   Give notice of the infraction that is the basis of the investigation to
the Owner.
   B.   Conduct a thorough investigation, including interviewing any witnesses,
and the owner, gathering existing medical records, veterinary medical records
and behavioral evidence;
   C.   Make a detailed report recommending a finding that the dog is a vicious
dog; and
   D.   Give the report to the State's Attorney's Office and the owner. The
Administrator, State's Attorney, or any citizen of the county in which the dog
exists may file a complaint in the administrative court or circuit court in the
name of the People of the State of Illinois to deem a dog to be a vicious dog.
The petitioner must prove the dog is a vicious dog by clear and convincing
evidence. If the burden of proof has been met, the court shall deem the dog to
be a vicious dog. The judge has the discretion to order a vicious dog to be
euthanized.
The Administrator shall determine where the animal shall be confined during the
pendency of the case. The owner shall bear all expenses relating to the
confinement. The Administrator may determine that the dog shall be confined at
an Animal Control Facility during the appeal process and that the owner shall
post bond in advance for anticipated boarding. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2020)
5-5B-2: VICIOUS DOG EXEMPTIONS:
A dog may not be declared vicious if the court determines the conduct of the
dog was justified because:
   A.   The threat, injury, or death was sustained by a person who at the time
was committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog, or
was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises or property
owned or occupied by the owner of the animal;
   B.   The injured, threatened, or killed person was tormenting, abusing,
assaulting, or physically threatening the dog or its offspring, or has in the
past tormented, abused, assaulted, or physically threatened the dog or its
offspring; or
   C.   The dog was responding to pain or injury, or was protecting itself, its
owner, custodian, or member of its household, kennel, or offspring.
No dog shall be deemed "vicious" if it is a professionally trained dog for law
enforcement or guard duties. Vicious dogs shall not be classified in a manner
that is specific as to breed.
Testimony of a certified applied behaviorist, a board certified veterinary
behaviorist, or another recognized expert may be relevant to the court's
determination of whether the dog's behavior was justified.
Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the physically
handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police-owned dogs are exempt from this
Section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is
performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under this Section,
each such dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with
division 8 of this chapter, be registered with Ogle County and performing
duties as expected. It shall be the duty of the owner of the exempted dog to
notify the Administrator of changes of address. In the case of a sentry or
guard dog, the owner shall keep the Administrator advised of the location where
such dog will be stationed. The Administrator shall provide police and fire
departments with a categorized list of the exempted dogs and shall promptly
notify the departments of any address changes reported to him or her. (Ord. O-
2019-0904, 9-17-2020)
5-5B-3: PENALTIES FOR DOG FOUND TO BE VICIOUS:
If a dog is found to be a vicious dog, the owners shall:
   A.   Have the dog spayed or neutered within ten (10) days of the finding at
the expense of its owner and micro chipped, if not already;
   B.   Have the dog in an enclosure approved by Animal Control. If the dog is
in the custody of Animal Control, the dog found to be a vicious shall not be
released to the owner until the Administrator, or his or her designee, approves
the enclosure; and
If an owner fails to comply with these requirements, Ogle County Animal Control
shall impound the dog and the owner shall pay a five hundred dollars ($500.00)
fine plus impoundment fees to Ogle County Animal Control. Fines may be lowered
or waived if owner elects to euthanize dog.
No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away the dog without
approval from the Administrator or court.
Whenever an owner of a vicious dog relocates, he or she shall notify both the
Administrator of County Animal Control where he or she has relocated and Ogle
County Animal Control within five (5) days of change of address.
The owner of a dog which has been declared a "vicious dog" by court shall pay
an annual status fee to the Department as indicated in section
5-3-9. Such fee shall be due April 1 of each year. The owner of any dog which
has been found to be vicious must pay the annual status fee within sixty (60)
days of notification of such declaration. No refunds will be issued for any
reason. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2020)
5-5B-4: VICIOUS DOG ENCLOSURE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog which has been
found to be a vicious dog unless the dog is kept in an enclosure. A vicious dog
may be allowed out of the enclosure if:
   A.   It is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary care for
the dog;
   B.   In the case of an emergency or natural disaster where the dog's life is
threatened; or
   C.   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction, provided
that the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a leash not exceeding 6
feet in length, and shall be under the direct control and supervision of the
owner or keeper of the dog or muzzled in its residence. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-
17-2020)
5-5B-5: IMPOUNDMENT OF VICIOUS DOG:
Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not confined to
an enclosure shall be impounded by the Administrator or the law enforcement
authority having jurisdiction in such area.
If the owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to the circuit
court of Ogle County within ten (10) business days, the dog may be euthanized.
Upon filing a notice of appeal, the order of euthanasia shall be automatically
stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. The owner shall bear the burden of
timely notification to animal control in writing. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2020)
5-5B-6: PENDING VICIOUS DOG DETERMINATION:
If Ogle County Animal Control has custody of the dog, Animal Control may file a
petition with the court requesting that the owner be ordered to post security.
The security must be in an amount sufficient to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses expected to be incurred by Animal Control in caring for and
providing for the dog pending the determination. Reasonable expenses include,
but are not limited to, estimated medical care and boarding of the animal for
thirty (30) days. If security has been posted in accordance with this section,
Animal Control may draw from the security the actual costs incurred by Animal
Control in caring for the dog.
Upon receipt of a petition, the court must set a hearing on the petition, to be
conducted within five (5) business days after the petition is filed. The
petitioner must serve a true copy of the petition on the defendant.
If the court orders the posting of security, the security must be posted with
the clerk within five (5) business days after the hearing. If the person
ordered to post security does not do so, the dog is forfeited by operation of
law and Animal Control must dispose of the animal through adoption or humane
euthanization. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2020)
DIVISION 6
PUBLIC NUISANCE
SECTION:
5-6-1: Running At Large
5-6-2: Impoundment
5-6-3: Nonredemption/Adoption/Spaying Or Neutering
5-6-4: Redemption Or Adoption And Vaccination
5-6-5: Animals On Public Property
5-6-6: Female Animals In Heat
5-6-7: Entry Upon The Private Property Of Another
5-6-8: Damage To Property
5-6-9: Accumulation Of Feces
5-6-10: Destruction Of Livestock
5-6-11: Liability
5-6-12: Notification By Persons Finding Companion Animals
5-6-13: Dead Animals
5-6-14: Managed Feral Cat Colony
5-6-15: Removal Of Colony By Animal Control
5-6-1: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   The owner of any dog shall not permit such animal to run at large
within unincorporated areas of the County of Ogle Illinois, which have been
subdivided for residential purposes.
   B.   No person shall cause or permit any dog owned by them, unless under
restraint, to be on any public place or on any privately owned premises other
than those of the owner without that property owners consent.
   C.   Any dog found running at large, not confined to the owner's property or
is on public property not under restraint shall be deemed a declared Public
Health nuisance. The Administrator shall capture and impound any such animal.
The Administrator or their Deputy Administrator shall, immediately upon
impounding any dog, cat or other animal make complete registry and enter
therein the breed, color and sex of such dog, cat or other animal.
   D.   Any dog found running at large contrary to the provisions of this
division may be apprehended and impounded. A dog found running at large
contrary to the provisions of this division a second or subsequent time must be
spayed or neutered within thirty (30) days after being reclaimed unless already
spayed or neutered; failure to comply shall result in impoundment. (Ord. O-
2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-6-2: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   When dogs, cats or other domestic animals are apprehended and impounded
by the Administrator, they must be scanned for the presence of a microchip. The
Administrator shall make every reasonable attempt to contact the owner. The
Administrator shall give notice of not less than seven (7) business days to the
owner prior to the disposal of the animal. Such notice shall be mailed to the
last known address of the owner. An affidavit or testimony of the
Administrator, or his or her authorized agent, who mails such notice, shall be
prima facie evidence of the receipt of such notice by the owner of such animal.
   In case the owner of any impounded dog or cat, or other domestic animal
desires to make redemption thereof, they may do so by complying with the
following:
      (1)   Presenting proof of rabies inoculation and registration.
      (2)   Paying for the rabies inoculation of the dog or companion cat and
registration, if applicable.
      (3)   Paying Animal Control for the board of the dog or cat for the
period that it was impounded, per section
5-3-9.
      (4)   Paying into the Animal Control fund an additional impound fee as
prescribed by the board as a penalty for the first offense and for each
subsequent offense, per section
5-3-9, and all other costs incurred.
      (5)   Paying for micro-chipping and registration if not already done.
      (6)   Paying a twenty-five dollars ($25) Public Safety Fine to be
deposited into the Pet Population Control Fund.
      This fine may be waived if the animal has no prior impoundments and was
spayed or neutered with fourteen (14) days.
   B.   The payments required for redemption under this section shall be in
addition to other penalties invoked under this ordinance and the Illinois
Public Health and Safety Animal Population Control Act.
   C.   If no owner is known, the stray animal shall be held for a period of
seven (7) business days. If after that time no owner has come forward or been
identified, the animal may be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   D.   Any animal on any public way or public place, or which has strayed onto
private premises and which appears to be injured or severely diseased and for
which care is not being provided by the owner shall be removed, if possible, by
the Administrator, Animal Control Officer, or any law enforcement agency. If
immediate removal is not practical or possible, or if the animal is in critical
condition, such animal may be deprived of life by the most humane method
available, unless the owner shall come forward beforehand and assume
responsibility for immediate removal and care.
   E.   The Administrator need not maintain animals for the above time if they
are determined by a licensed veterinarian to be diseased or critically ill.
(Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-6-3: NONREDEMPTION/ADOPTION/SPAYING OR NEUTERING:
   A.   When not redeemed by the owner, agent, or caretaker an animal which has
been impounded in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance shall be
offered for adoption or made available to a licensed humane society or rescue
group. If no placement is available it shall be euthanized in accordance with
the Illinois Euthanasia in Shelters Act.
   B.   Live animals shall not be used for research purposes, nor released to
any individual, organization or educational institution for research or
experimental purposes or sold, transferred or held for such purposes.
   C.   An unredeemed dog or cat shall not be released for adoption unless the
animal has been micro-chipped and spayed or neutered. A person wishing to adopt
an animal prior to the surgical procedure shall have executed a written
agreement promising to have such service performed within thirty (30) days of
adoption. Failure to fulfill the terms of the agreement shall result in seizure
and impoundment of the animal by the Administrator. Additional penalties may be
imposed. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-6-4: REDEMPTION OR ADOPTION AND VACCINATION:
An owner redeeming an unvaccinated dog or cat over four (4) months of age, or
any person adopting a dog or cat over four (4) months of age which has been
impounded, shall cause such dog or cat to be officially vaccinated against
rabies and officially registered before removing such dog or cat from the
pound. Dogs or cats under four (4) months of age which are redeemed or adopted
shall be caused by the owner to be vaccinated against rabies within thirty (30)
days after reaching four (4) months of age.
This division shall not prevent humane societies from engaging in activities
set forth by their charters, provided, they are not inconsistent with
provisions of this division and other existing laws. Any person purchasing or
adopting such dog with or without charge or donation must pay for the rabies
inoculation of such dog and registration if applicable. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-
17-2019)
5-6-5: ANIMALS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any dog, cat or other animal even though on a leash,
to be present at or upon any school premises, public beach or public swimming
pool, unless permission is granted by the agency which has jurisdiction over
same. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to working support dogs.
(Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-6-6: FEMALE ANIMALS IN HEAT:
All dogs and cats in heat (estrus) shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure and attended in such a manner that such female cat or dog cannot come
into contact with a male of the same species except for planned breeding. (Ord.
O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-6-7: ENTRY UPON THE PRIVATE PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
The owner of any dog shall not permit such dog to enter upon the premises or
property which is located within Ogle County, Illinois, of another person
without permission of the owner of such premises or property. (Ord. O-2019-
0904, 9-17-2019)
5-6-8: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
The owner of any dog, cat or other domestic animal shall not permit such dog,
cat or other domestic animal to injure, destroy or carry any vegetable, plant,
fruit, shrub, tree, flower or other thing which may be on or which may be
planted or seeded on the property of another or on public property. These
provisions do not exclude any civil liability for damage to property by a dog,
cat or other domestic animal. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-6-9: ACCUMULATION OF FECES:
No person shall allow cat or dog feces to accumulate in any yard, pen or
premises in or upon which a cat or dog shall be confined or kept so that it
becomes offensive to those residing in the vicinity or a health hazard to the
residing cat or dog. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-6-10: DESTRUCTION OF LIVESTOCK:
Any owner seeing their livestock, including but not limited to: sheep, goats,
cattle, horses, mules, swine or poultry being pursued, chased, worried,
wounded, or killed by a dog, not accompanied by or not under the supervision
and control of its owner, may pursue and kill such dog while presenting a
threat. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-6-11: LIABILITY:
The owner or keeper of a dog is liable to a person for all damages caused by
the dog pursuing, chasing, worrying, wounding, injuring, or killing any sheep,
goats, cattle, horses, mules, poultry, ratites, or swine belonging to that
person. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-6-12: NOTIFICATION BY PERSONS FINDING COMPANION ANIMALS:
   A.   For the purpose of this section, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings ascribed to them by this section:
   Stray dog means any dog this is in a public place and not under the charge
of a keeper and has no indication of ownership such as a collar, county
registration tag, name tag, microchip, or any other identifiers.
   Straying dog means any dog that is in a public place and not under the
charge of a keeper and has indication of ownership such as a collar, county
registration tag, name tag, microchip, or any other identifiers.
   B.   Any person who finds a stray or straying dog and provides care or
safekeeping or retains the companion animal in such a manner as to control its
activities shall immediately:
      (1)   Make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner of the found animal
if the owner can be ascertained from any tag, license, collar, tattoo, or other
form of identification or markings or if the owner of the animal is otherwise
known to the individual. If an owner cannot be located, the dog must be turned
into Ogle County Animal Control the next business day.
      (2)   If the dog has been found during normal business hours with no tag,
microchip, license, collar, tattoo, or other form of identification or markings
the dog must immediately be turned over to Ogle County Animal Control.
Individuals must provide to the department contact information, including at
least a name and a contact telephone number, and the location where the dog was
found. Any individual who finds a straying dog after normal business hours or
during holidays when animal control is closed must contact their local law
enforcement agency.
      (3)   If a person finds a stray or straying dog and (1) provides care or
safekeeping or (2) retains the dog in such a manner as to control its
activities, the individual shall comply with the provisions as it pertains to
Humane Care for Animals Act (510 ILCS 70/3.01) (from Ch. 8, par. 703.01) and
(510 ILCS 70/3) (from Ch. 8 par. 703.
   Any person violating or aiding in the violation of any provision of this
section, or resisting, obstructing, impeding the animal control authority or
any authorized officer in enforcing this section, shall be fined no less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) or no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). For the
first offense, a warning citation may be issued. Each day a person fails to
comply constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-6-13: DEAD ANIMALS:
Any person having a dead animal within their possession or control or upon any
premises owned or occupied by such person shall dispose of said animal in
compliance with the Illinois Dead Animal Disposal Act within twenty-four (24)
hours. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-6-14: MANAGED FERAL CAT COLONY:
It is unlawful for any person to intentionally provide food, water or other
forms of sustenance to a feral cat or feral cat colony unless the feral cat is
maintained in an approved managed feral cat colony.
In order to be an approved managed feral cat colony, the person caring for the
cats must:
   A.   Ensure that the colony is restricted to a well-defined safe area, and
not on lands managed for wildlife or other natural resources (i.e. state parks,
wildlife refuges, etc.). Written permission of the landowner shall be obtained
and notarized when colony manager is not the property owner.
   B.   Register the colony with an approved animal shelter licensed by the
Illinois Department of Agriculture, the local municipality that the colony is
in, or Ogle County Animal Control. The animal shelter or municipality must file
reports with Animal Control as requested.
   C.   Provide a written record to the Animal Control on a quarterly basis of
the care and management of the colony. Such record shall include but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Location of the colony;
      (2)   Feeding schedule (daytime only), daily care required including
weekends, holidays and vacations of caretaker;
      (3)   Number of cats in the colony;
      (4)   Number of cats joining the colony and final disposition of those
cat(s);
      (5)   Number of cats no longer in the colony and disposition if known;
      (6)   Health monitoring.
   D.   Provide adequate shelter which provides protection from the elements
and have photographs available of the site upon request.
   E.   Be required to humanely capture and provide for:
      (1)   Sterilization of all cats through the Ogle County Pet Population
Control Fund as approved by application and as funds or other means are deemed
available.
      (2)   Health examination which may include testing for infectious
diseases (Felv & FIV) of any ill cats deemed so by a veterinarian including
euthanasia or isolation indoors of those which test positive;
      (3)   Maintenance of an ongoing health care program which provides
vaccinations of, medical and/or surgical care and parasite control;
      (4)   Removal of kittens and adoptable adult newcomers;
      (5)   Left concave ear tipping for those which have been spayed/neutered;
      (6)   Removal from, return to the colony, or euthanization of those cats
that cannot be socialized, as determined by the caretaker; and
      (7)   Rabies vaccination as recommended by vaccine manufacturer.
   F.   Have an approved written program of educational training which shall be
provided for all care givers. This shall include uniform standards and
procedures for colony maintenance, as well as public health, occupational
safety and environmental issues. Training is to be provided by the approved
animal shelter, municipality or Ogle County Animal Control.
   G.   Provide annual notification to residents by legal notice listing the
section of the township the colony is located.
   H.   Post signage at any and all trapping sites clearly listing a contact
person and phone number and an alternate person and phone number.
   I.   Remove nuisance cats from the colony and euthanize, isolate indoors or
put in a barn cat program
   J.   Not relocate any cat to another colony within Ogle County. (Ord. O-
2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-6-15: REMOVAL OF COLONY BY ANIMAL CONTROL:
The Department has the right to immediately seize and remove all, or parts of,
any colony for any reason including but not limited to:
   A.   Public health and public safety concerns including rabies, other
epizootic and certain Zoonosis identified by the Department.
   B.   Animals creating a public nuisance or which are in violation of any
section of this diposition.
   C.   In the event the caretaker fails to comply with the requirements of
this section. The colony manager or the approved organization will be notified
by the Department at least forty-eight (48) hours before removal of any animal
from the colony. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
DIVISION 7
BITING ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Biting Dogs, Cats Or Other Animals
5-7-2: Physician Verification
5-7-3: Rabies Observation Period
5-7-4: Liability For Injury
5-7-5: Noncompliance
5-7-6: Dogs In Law Enforcement
5-7-1: BITING DOGS, CATS OR OTHER ANIMALS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person having direct knowledge that any person
has been bitten by a dog, cat or other animal capable of transmitting rabies to
refuse to notify the Administrator, Animal Control Officer, or Ogle County
Animal Control immediately.
   B.   It is unlawful for the owner of such dog or other animal to euthanize,
sell, give away, or otherwise dispose of any such dog or other animal known to
have bitten a person, until it is released by the Administrator.
   C.   It is unlawful for the owner of such dog, cat, or other animal to
refuse or fail to comply with the written or printed instructions made by the
Administrator. If such instructions cannot be delivered in person, they shall
be mailed to the owner of such dog or other animal by regular mail, postage
prepaid. The affidavit or testimony of the Administrator delivering or mailing
such instruction is prima facie evidence that the owner of such dog or other
animal was notified of their responsibilities.
   D.   Any expense incurred in the handling of any dog or other animal under
this ordinance shall be borne by the owner. For the purpose of this Section,
the word "immediately" means by telephone or in person, and does not include
the use of mail. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-7-2: PHYSICIAN VERIFICATION:
It is within the scope of this division that the Administrator may request
physician verification of the reported bite. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-7-3: RABIES OBSERVATION PERIOD:
When the Administrator receives information that any person has been bitten by
an animal the Administrator shall either:
   A.   Have the owner confine the biting animal under the direction of a
licensed veterinarian for a period of ten days beginning within twenty-four
hours of the biting incident; or
   B.   The biting animal may be confined in the house of its owner in a manner
which will prohibit it from biting any person if the Administrator or a
licensed veterinarian adjudges such confinement satisfactory and the biting
animal is currently inoculated with rabies vaccine or less than 4 months of
age.
   When confinement of the biting animal is allowed in the home of its owner,
the owner shall return the animal to the veterinarian on the l0th day after the
bite. The animal's health shall be reported by the veterinarian to the Ogle
County Animal Control Department on the tenth day of the observation period for
rabies. Such veterinarian shall report the clinical condition of the dog or
other animal immediately, with confirmation in writing to the Administrator
within twenty-four (24) hours after the dog or other animal is presented for
examination, giving the owner's name, address, the date of confinement, the
breed, description, age, and sex or such dog or other animal, on appropriate
forms approved by Ogle County Animal Control.
   C.   Hospital confinement is required when:
      1.   The biting animal is more than four (4) months of age and is not
currently vaccinated (unless the vaccination expired less than thirty (30) days
prior to the date of the bite) and the victim is not a family member residing
in the same household or;
      2.   The Administrator directs hospital confinement of a vaccinated
animal when the biting animal inflicts a serious bite to a person, bites a
person while on home confinement for a prior bite, is on home confinement and
is reported to be running loose or not adequately restrained by its owner, or
requires confinement as deemed necessary by the Administrator.
   D.   The Department may permit the confinement period to be reduced to less
than ten (10) days following a bite when:
      1.   It is deemed advisable for humane reasons, i.e., injury, health or
disease conditions or
      2.   When the owner has requested euthanasia of the biting animal or;
      3.   The animal is deemed to be a stray by the Administrator.
   When such animal is confined for a period of less than ten (10) days, for
one of the above three reasons, it shall be euthanized and the brain submitted
directly to a recognized laboratory for rabies examination. (Ord. O-2019-0904,
9-17-2019)
5-7-4: LIABILITY FOR INJURY:
If a dog or other animal, without provocation, attacks or injures any person
who is peaceably conducting themselves in any place where they may lawfully be,
the owner of such dog or other animal is liable for damages to such person for
the full amount of the injury sustained. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-7-5: NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   Failure to return a biting animal under home observation to a
veterinarian for examination will constitute a violation of this division. Each
day of non-compliance will constitute a separate offense subject to fines.
   B.   It is a violation of this division for an owner or their agent to sell,
kill or give away or otherwise dispose of any animal that is known to have
bitten a person within a ten (10) day period of a bite.
   C.   No person shall remove from any place of confinement any animal which
has been confined as authorized by the Administrator without the consent of the
Administrator. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-7-6: DOGS IN LAW ENFORCEMENT:
When a person has been bitten by a police dog, the police dog may continue to
perform its duties for the peace officer or law enforcement agency and any
period of observation may be under the supervision of a peace officer. The
supervision shall consist of the dog being locked in a kennel, performing its
official duties in a police vehicle, or remaining under the constant
supervision of its police handler. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
DIVISION 8
RABIES; RABIES VACCINATION
SECTION:
5-8-1: Vaccination Requirement
5-8-2: Grace Period
5-8-3: Rabies Vaccine
5-8-4: Exposed Animals
5-8-5: Dog Or Cat Quarantine
5-8-6: Animal With Rabies
5-8-1: VACCINATION REQUIREMENT:
Every owner of a dog or companion cat (4) four months or more of age, within
the County of Ogle, Illinois, shall cause such dog or companion cat to be
inoculated by a licensed Veterinarian with a prophylactic rabies vaccine
approved by the United States Department of Agriculture and the Illinois
Department of Agriculture. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-8-2: GRACE PERIOD:
Thirty (30) days are permitted for an owner to secure revaccination of their
dog or companion cat after the previous vaccination time has lapsed. (Ord. O-
2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-8-3: RABIES VACCINE:
Rabies vaccine for use on animals shall be sold or distributed only to and used
only by licensed Veterinarians. Such rabies vaccine shall be licensed by the
United States Department of Agriculture and approved by the Department and used
in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-
2019)
5-8-4: EXPOSED ANIMALS:
Whenever reasonable probability exists that a domestic animal has been exposed
to a known rabid animal, the exposed animal shall be handled in a manner as
recommended by the Illinois Department of Agriculture. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-
2019)
5-8-5: DOG OR CAT QUARANTINE:
   A.   Whenever the number of dogs or cats suffering from rabies, or dogs or
cats running at large within the Ogle County, Illinois, shall be such as to
endanger the public health, public safety or general welfare, the
Administrator, upon the recommendation of the Chairman of the Board of Ogle
County, shall apply to the Illinois Department of Agriculture for a quarantine.
A proclamation of the Chairman containing such declaration shall be published
at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in Ogle County. After the
first publication of such proclamation by the Chairman, it shall be unlawful
for the owner or custodian of any dog or cat to permit such dog or cat to be at
large contrary to the terms of such proclamation. The Department may order that
all dogs or other animals in the locality be kept confined within an enclosure,
be kept muzzled and restrained by leash, that all owners or keepers of dogs or
other animals take prophylactic measures as deemed necessary to prevent the
spread of rabies, and other measures as may be necessary to control the spread
of rabies.
   B.   The Illinois Department of Agriculture may determine the area of the
locality in which, and the period of time during which, such orders shall be
effective.
   C.   The Administrator, during the first week after the quarantine order is
issued shall take proper measures to inform the citizens of Ogle County of the
quarantine order and of the penalties attached to the violation of the order.
The quarantine order shall apply to all dogs or cats whether vaccinated and
registered according to the provisions of this division or not, and shall be
confined in the home of the owner of the animal or be under direct control of a
competent person.
   D.   Any dog, cat, or other animal subject to such quarantine found
uncontrolled shall be impounded. Dogs, cats, and other animals subject to
rabies which are impossible to capture or impound after the exercise of
reasonable efforts and diligence, shall be destroyed if the Health Authority so
designates. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-8-6: ANIMAL WITH RABIES:
   A.   The owner of any dog, cat, or other animal which exhibits clinical
signs of rabies, whether or not such dog, cat, or other animal has been
inoculated against rabies, shall immediately notify the Administrator, and
shall promptly confine such dog, cat, or other animal, or have it confined
under suitable observation for a period of at least ten (10) days, unless
officially authorized by the Administrator in writing to release it sooner. Any
dog, cat, or other animal in direct contact with such dog, cat, or other
animal, whether or not the exposed dog or cat or other animal has been
inoculated against rabies, shall be confined as recommended by the
Administrator.
   B.   Any owner or veterinarian who suspects that a dog, cat or other animal
died from rabies shall immediately report such fact to the Administrator. (Ord.
O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
DIVISION 9
EXOTIC ANIMALS; WILDLIFE
SECTION:
5-9-1: Exotic Animal
5-9-2: Domestication No Defense
5-9-3: Wildlife Domestication
5-9-4: Indigenous Wildlife
5-9-5: Rabies Vaccination Of Wildlife
5-9-1: EXOTIC ANIMAL:
No person shall own, or keep in their custody any exotic or crossbred or hybrid
exotic animals in any place other than a properly maintained zoological park,
circus, scientific or educational institution, research laboratory, veterinary
hospital or animal refuge. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-9-2: DOMESTICATION NO DEFENSE:
It is no defense to a violation of this division that the keeper of any animal
or poisonous reptile which is prohibited by §
5-9-1 et seq. has attempted to domesticate such animal or poisonous or
constricting reptile. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-9-3: WILDLIFE DOMESTICATION:
No person shall keep or permit to be kept or domesticate any wildlife contrary
to Federal, state and local laws, and regulations. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-
2019)
5-9-4: INDIGENOUS WILDLIFE:
No person shall be permitted to own, harbor or keep in their custody any
wildlife indigenous to the State of Illinois for the purpose of selling, giving
or trading them as pets, irrespective of holding a fur-bearing mammal permit or
game breeders permit from the Illinois Department of Conservation. Fur-bearing
farms are exempt from this requirement provided that the operation meets the
requirement of state and county regulations. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-9-5: RABIES VACCINATION OF WILDLIFE:
It is unlawful to vaccinate any wildlife or wildlife cross against rabies
unless the vaccine manufacturer indicates recommendation of that species. (Ord.
O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
DIVISION 10
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-10-1: Cruel Treatment
5-10-2: Owner's Duties
5-10-3: Tethering
5-10-4: Confinement In Motor Vehicle
5-10-5: Abandonment
5-10-6: Poisoning
5-10-7: Artificially Colored Animals Or Fowl
5-10-8: Chicks Or Ducklings As Novelties Or Pets
5-10-9: Entertainment, Fighting Or Baiting Animals
5-10-10: Noises
5-10-1: CRUEL TREATMENT:
   A.   No person or owner may beat, cruelly treat, torment, starve, overwork
or otherwise abuse an animal.
   B.   No owner may abandon any animal where it may become a public charge or
may suffer injury, hunger or exposure. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-10-2: OWNER'S DUTIES:
No person or owner shall fail to provide any animal in their charge or custody
as owner or otherwise, with the following:
   A.   Sufficient quantity of good quality and wholesome food and water
(outdoor animals must have a constant supply of fresh water available);
   B.   Adequate shelter and protection from the weather;
   C.   Veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering; and
   D.   Humane care and treatment. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-10-3: TETHERING:
No person or owner shall chain or leash an unsupervised dog outside for a
period longer than 1 (one) hour unless the chain is at least 12 feet long so as
to allow for adequate exercise and freedom of movement. Said dog must also be
contained on the owner's premises. The chain shall be attached so as to avoid
entanglement. If an animal is found to be entangled Animal Control has the
authority to do whatever is necessary to rescue said animal. (Ord. O-2019-0904,
9-17-2019)
5-10-4: CONFINEMENT IN MOTOR VEHICLE:
   A.   No person or owner shall confine any animal in a motor vehicle in such
a manner that places it in a life or health threatening situation by exposure
to a prolonged period of extreme heat or cold, without proper ventilation or
other protection from such heat or cold.
   B.   In order to protect the health and safety of an animal, an animal
control officer, law enforcement officer, or Department investigator who has
probable cause to believe that this Section is being violated shall have
authority to enter such motor vehicle by any reasonable means under the
circumstances after making a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
person responsible. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-10-5: ABANDONMENT:
   A.   No person or owner shall knowingly abandon any domestic animal on their
own property without daily care or by abandonment off the owner's premises
where it may suffer injury, hunger, or exposure, or become a public charge.
   B.   No person or owner shall knowingly release any domestic rabbit, ferret,
prairie dog, hedgehog or other mammal, reptile or avian not native to this
area, expecting it to fend for itself for food, shelter and protection. (Ord.
O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-10-6: POISONING:
No person or owner shall knowingly or with malicious intent set out poison(s)
or cause to be poisoned any dog, cat or domestic animal except by expressed
permit from the Illinois Department of Agriculture. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-
2019)
5-10-7: ARTIFICIALLY COLORED ANIMALS OR FOWL:
No person shall sell, offer for sale, barter, or give away any living animal
such as chicks, ducklings, other baby fowl or rabbits as pets or novelties when
such fowl or rabbits have been dyed, colored or otherwise treated to impart an
artificial color to them. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-10-8: CHICKS OR DUCKLINGS AS NOVELTIES OR PETS:
Chicks or ducklings shall not be sold, offered for sale, bartered or given away
as pets or novelties. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-10-9: ENTERTAINMENT, FIGHTING OR BAITING ANIMALS:
   A.   No person may own, operate, manage, maintain, charge admission to or be
a patron at any place used for the purpose of fighting or baiting any bull,
bear, dog, cock or other animal.
   B.   No person shall give or use any live animal as a prize or as an
inducement to enter any contest, game or other competition, or as an inducement
to enter a place of amusement, or offer such animal as an incentive to enter
any business agreement whereby the offer was for the purpose of attracting
trade, without registering with Animal Control at least forty-eight (48) hours
before the event.
   C.   No person shall hold a greased pig contest. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-
2019)
5-10-10: NOISES:
It is unlawful for any person to own or keep any dog within the county which
barks or howls or any animal which whines or otherwise behaves in a manner as
to disturb the peace and quiet or safety of persons in the area. It shall be a
rebuttable presumption that any such barking, whining, howling, or disturbing
behavior does in fact disturb the peace, comfort, and /or repose of others when
such activities take place between the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) p.m.
and seven o'clock (7:00) a.m. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
DIVISION 11
VIOLATION OF DIVISION 10 OF THIS CHAPTER
SECTION:
5-11-1: Violation
5-11-2: Impounding Animals
5-11-3: Notice Of Impoundment
5-11-1: VIOLATION:
When a violation of division 10 has been committed, an animal control officer
will furnish the violator, if known, with a notice of violation, and state what
action is necessary to come into compliance with this division and that a
maximum of forty-eight (48) hours may be granted in which to take corrective
action. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-11-2: IMPOUNDING ANIMALS:
   A.   In the event that the Administrator finds that a violation of this
Ordinance has rendered an animal in such a condition that no remedy or
corrective action by the owner is possible, the Administrator may impound the
animal(s).
   B.   If a violator fails or refuses to take correction action necessary for
compliance with division 10 and §
5-11-1 of this chapter, the Administrator may impound the animal.
   C.   If the animal is impounded, it shall be impounded in a facility or at
another location where the elements of good care can be provided, and where
such animal shall be examined and treated by a licensed veterinarian, or if the
animal is severely injured, diseased, or suffering, humanely euthanized.
   D.   Emergency impoundment may be exercised in a life-threatening situation
and the subject animal shall be conveyed directly to a licensed veterinarian
for medical services necessary to sustain life or to be humanely euthanized as
determined by the veterinarian.
   E.   All costs relating to the impoundment of the animal shall be bourn by
the owner. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-11-3: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   A notice of impoundment shall be given by the Administrator to the
violator, if known, in person or sent by certified or registered mail. If the
Department is not able to serve the violator in person or by registered or
certified mail, the notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county in which the violator's last known address is
located. The notice of impoundment shall include the following: listing of
deficiencies noted, an accurate description of the animal or animals involved,
the date on which the animal or animals were impounded, the signature of the
investigator, and a statement that the violator may request an appeal of the
impoundment pursuant to Ogle County Health Ordinance within seven (7) business
days after impoundment of the animal(s).
   B.   Return to the owner may be denied or withheld until the owner has made
full payment for all expenses incurred and for any accrued charges.
   C.   If the impoundment is not appealed, within seven (7) business days of
the impoundment, the animal is forfeited and the Administrator may lawfully and
without liability provide for adoption of the animal or it may be humanely
euthanized. The person who forfeited the animal or a person dwelling in the
same household as the person who forfeited the animals may not adopt.
   D.   No matter what the disposition of the animal in the appeal, the owner
is subject to and responsible for any and all violations and expenses which may
ensue. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
DIVISION 12
PENALTIES AND REMEDIES
SECTION:
5-12-1: Fines
5-12-2: Alternative Remedy
5-12-3: Responsibility
5-12-1: FINES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this division or aiding in or
abetting or counterfeiting or forging any certificate or tag, or making any
misrepresentation in regard to any matter prescribed by this division or
resisting, obstructing or impeding the Administrator or their designated agents
in enforcing this division, shall be fined not less than twenty-five dollars
($25.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   B.   The minimum fine for failure to register a dog in accordance with the
requirements of division 3 shall not be less than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for the first offense and up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for subsequent
offenses.
   C.   The minimum fine for an unregistered dog running at large in or near a
school yard (except dog parks) shall be not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for the first offense and up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for
subsequent offenses.
   D.   The minimum fine for a dog running at large when Animal Control
intervenes is seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for the first offense, one hundred
and fifty dollars ($150.00) for the second offense and for the third offense
the fine will not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   E.   A minimum fine for all dogs reported to be running at large with no
animal control intervention will be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   F.   Each occurrence of failure to comply constitutes a separate offense.
   G.   The fine for not having a dog examined as ordered after a bite will be
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per day. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
5-12-2: ALTERNATIVE REMEDY:
As an alternative remedy to any other remedy which may be available to the
Animal Control in this division or in any State Statute, Animal Control may
issue a ticket in those instances where any person violates or aids in or abets
the violations or any provision of this division. Said ticket gives the person
who violates this division the option of appearing in court to contest the
alleged violation or pay the minimum fine as set forth herein. (Ord. O-2019-
0904, 9-17-2019)
5-12-3: RESPONSIBILITY:
The Administrator for Animal Control or their duly authorized representatives
or anyone enforcing the provisions of this division shall not be held
unreasonably responsible for any accident or disease which may affect any dog,
cat or other animal which may occur as a result of enforcing the provisions of
this division. (Ord. O-2019-0904, 9-17-2019)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY ROADS AND PROPERTY
Vehicle Weight Limits   1
Reserved Street Right Of Way   2
DIVISION 1
VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Weights Established, Limited
6-1-2: Notice Of Limits Posted
6-1-3: Superintendent/Authority
6-1-4: Weigh Vehicles/Removal Of Excess Loads
6-1-5: Violation, Penalty
6-1-6: Posting Bail
6-1-1: WEIGHTS ESTABLISHED, LIMITED:
   A.   No person shall operate or drive, nor shall any owner cause or
knowingly permit a person to operate or drive any vehicle having an axle load
in excess of sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds and/or having a gross weight in
excess of seventy three thousand two hundred eighty (73,280) pounds on
bituminous surface roads, except when the above limits will be reduced in
accordance with paragraph B of this section.
   B.   Whenever by reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic
conditions, roads may be damaged or destroyed due to the weight limits in
paragraph A of this section, the superintendent of highways may restrict the
gross weight of vehicles including implements of husbandry 1  operating on said
roads to the following limitations:
 
                                 Gross Weight
2 axles, single rear tires        7,000 lbs.
2 axles, dual rear tires1         18,000 lbs.
3 or more axles, dual rear tires1 33,000 lbs.
 
Note:
    1.    And axle load 11,000 lbs.
The above restrictions of this paragraph apply for a total of not to exceed
ninety (90) days in any one calendar year. (Ord., 6-16-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. As defined in 65 ILCS 5/1-130 as now in effect and as may hereafter be
  amended.
6-1-2: NOTICE OF LIMITS POSTED:
The above established limitations shall be set forth on appropriate signs to be
placed upon roads within the county. (Ord., 6-16-1992)
6-1-3: SUPERINTENDENT/AUTHORITY:
The county superintendent of highways shall be authorized to give consent for
limited usage of certain posted roads during such times that the weather
permits vehicles over the posted limit to travel without causing deterioration
to the road. (Ord., 6-16-1992)
6-1-4: WEIGH VEHICLES/REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOADS:
Whenever the county superintendent of highways and/or his employee(s) and/or
the Ogle County sheriff's department determine upon weighing a vehicle and
load, by means of a portable or stationary scale, that the weight is unlawful,
such persons shall require the driver to stop the vehicle in a suitable place
and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed as may be
necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted under this
division. (Ord., 6-16-1992)
6-1-5: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
A person violating any provision of this division shall be fined according to
the following table as to the amount of weight excess of the posted limit:
 
                         Fine
2,001 lbs. to 5,000 lbs. $250.00
5,001 lbs. to 7,000 lbs. 350.00
Over 7,001 lbs.          500.00
 
An imposition of supervision, a fine, or both, may be imposed by the court upon
the recommendation of the state's attorney.
Fines collected under this provision shall be remitted to the treasurer of the
county. (Ord., 6-16-1992)
6-1-6: POSTING BAIL:
A person accused of a violation under this division shall be released upon the
affixing of their signature to the traffic citation which shall indicate their
promise to comply with all orders of the court and their promise to appear in
the court on the time and date as indicated upon the ticket or in the
alternative, promise to pay to the clerk of the circuit court in the traffic
division, the fine as set forth in this provision. (Ord., 6-16-1992)
DIVISION 2
RESERVED STREET RIGHT OF WAY
SECTION:
6-2-1: Construction Prohibited On Right Of Way
6-2-2: Exemptions For Certain Buildings, Fees
6-2-3: Removal Of Buildings In Violation
6-2-1: CONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED ON RIGHT OF WAY:
No building shall be constructed and no building permit shall be issued for
construction of any building within the right of way of any planned major
street design designated as "reserved street right of way" by a resolution of
record adopted by the county board pursuant to the provisions of this division.
Such resolution of record shall specify the U.S. government quarter sections
affected, and the centerline location, right of way width and name of the
planned major street. Copies of such resolution shall be filed in the office of
the county zoning administrator. (1982 Code)
6-2-2: EXEMPTIONS FOR CERTAIN BUILDINGS, FEES:
   A.   Exemption By Board Of Appeals: Upon application and following a public
hearing, the zoning board of appeals may authorize the issuance of a building
permit and the construction of a building within the mapped right of way when
it shall have been established that the application of the resolution of record
to a piece of property leaves it unusable and creates an unnecessary hardship,
and when the hardship was not of the owner's own making; provided, that the
board of appeals shall grant permission to use only so much of the mapped right
of way as is necessary to afford relief from the hardship, thereby preserving
the integrity of the mapped street insofar as possible.
   B.   Conditions For Exemption: The board of appeals may attach conditions to
such permit limiting the value and size of the building constructed,
stipulating the date by which such construction shall be removed at the owner's
expense, and/or providing for other limitations necessary to protect the public
interest.
   C.   Filing Fees Required: Each application for such building permit shall
be accompanied by a filing fee in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) to defray
administrative and advertising costs. (1982 Code)
6-2-3: REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS IN VIOLATION:
Any building or structure legally built within the mapped right of way covered
by any reserve street right of way resolution of record shall be removed at the
owner's expense upon acquisition of the property for street or highway
purposes. (1982 Code)
CHAPTER 8
FINANCE AND TAXATION
Housing Authority In Lieu Payments   1
Real Estate Transfer Tax   2
Mobile Home Tax   3
Public Transportation   4
Supplementary Use Tax   5
Hotel/Motel Tax   6
Enterprise Zone   7
DIVISION 1
HOUSING AUTHORITY IN LIEU PAYMENTS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Agreement For In Lieu Payments, Provisions, Duration
8-1-3: Payments Distributed by County
8-1-4: Payments Deducted For Required Services Or Facilities
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Wherever used in this division, the following definitions shall apply:
ACT: The United States housing act of 1937.
LOCAL AUTHORITY: The housing authority of the county of Ogle, state of
Illinois.
PHA: The public housing administration.
PROJECT: Any low rent housing hereafter developed by the local authority within
the corporate limits of any city, village or incorporated town in the county
with the financial assistance of the public housing administration, herein
called the PHA, and included within any program reservation issued to the local
authority by the PHA. A project will generally be located on a single site in
any city, village or incorporated town in the county, but may be on scattered
sites in any such city, village or incorporated town.
SHELTER RENT: The total of all charges to all tenants of a project for dwelling
rents and nondwelling rents (excluding all other income of such project), less
the cost to the local authority of all dwelling and nondwelling utilities.
TAXING BODY: The state or any political subdivision or taxing unit thereof
(including the county) in which a project is situated and which would have
authority to assess or levy real or personal property taxes or to certify such
taxes to a taxing body or public officer to be levied for its use and benefit
with respect to a project if it were not exempt from taxation. (1982 Code)
8-1-2: AGREEMENT FOR IN LIEU PAYMENTS, PROVISIONS, DURATION:
   A.   Agreement Provided: The county agrees that it will not levy or impose
any real or personal property taxes upon any project or upon the local
authority with respect thereto so long as either: 1) such project is used for
low rent housing purposes, or 2) any contract between the local authority and
the PHA for loans or annual contributions, or both, in connection with such
project shall remain in force and effect, or 3) any bonds issued in connection
with such project shall remain outstanding, whichever period is the longest.
   B.   Payments Provided: During such period, the local authority shall make
annual payments (herein called "payments in lieu of taxes") in lieu of such
taxes and in payment for public services and facilities furnished for or with
respect to each project in accordance with the provisions of section 29 of the
Illinois housing authorities act 1 . Each such annual payment in lieu of taxes
shall be made after the end of the fiscal year established for such project,
and shall be in an amount equal to either: 1) ten percent (10%) of the shelter
rent charged by the local authority in respect to such project during such
fiscal year, or 2) the amount permitted to be paid by applicable state law in
effect on the date such payment is made, whichever amount is lower.
   C.   Duration Of Agreements: So long as any contract between the local
authority and the PHA for loans (including preliminary loans) or annual
contributions, or both, with respect to any project shall remain in full force
and effect or so long as any bonds issued in connection with such project shall
remain outstanding, the agreement shall not be abrogated, changed or modified
without the consent of the PHA. The privileges and obligations of the county
hereunder shall remain in full force and effect with respect to each project so
long as the beneficial title to such project is held by the local authority or
by any other public body or governmental agency, including the PHA, authorized
by law to engage in the development or administration of low rent housing
projects. If at any time the beneficial title to or possession of any project
is held by such other public body or governmental agency, including the PHA,
the provisions hereof shall inure to the benefit of and may be enforced by such
other public body or governmental agency, including the PHA. (1982 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 310 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
8-1-3: PAYMENTS DISTRIBUTED BY COUNTY:
The county shall distribute the payments in lieu of taxes among the taxing
bodies in the proportion which the real property taxes (for the tax year for
which such payments are made) would have been paid to each taxing body if the
projects were not exempt from taxation. No payments for any year shall be made
to any taxing body (including the county) in excess of the amount of real
property taxes for such year if the projects were not exempt from taxation.
(1982 Code)
8-1-4: PAYMENTS DEDUCTED FOR REQUIRED SERVICES OR FACILITIES:
If any city, village or incorporated town shall, within a reasonable time after
written notice from the local authority fail or refuse to furnish or cause to
be furnished any of the services or facilities which it is obligated, under a
duly executed agreement with the local authority, to furnish or cause to be
furnished to the local authority or to any project, then the local authority
may proceed to obtain such services or facilities elsewhere and may deduct the
cost thereof from any payments in lieu of taxes due or to become due in respect
to any project in such city, village or incorporated town covered by the
agreement so violated or not fulfilled. (1982 Code)
DIVISION 2
REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX
SECTION:
8-2-1: Tax Imposed; Rate; State Tax Stamps Provided
8-2-2: Tax Payment Required For Filing; Collection And Valuation
8-2-3: Exemptions From Tax
8-2-4: Specific Deeds; Determination Of Payment
8-2-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE; STATE TAX STAMPS PROVIDED:
   A.   Tax, Rate: A county tax is imposed on the privilege of transferring
title to real estate situated in Ogle County as represented by the deed that is
filed for recordation, and upon the privilege of transferring a beneficial
interest in a land trust holding legal title to real estate located in such
county as represented by the trust document that is filed for recordation, at
the rate of twenty five cents ($0.25) for each five hundred dollars ($500.00)
of value or fraction thereof stated in the declaration provided in section
8-2-2 of this division. If, however, the real estate is transferred subject to
a mortgage, the amount of the mortgage remaining outstanding at the time of
transfer shall not be included in the basis of computing the tax.
   B.   State Tax Stamp Provisions: The county real estate transfer tax shall
be in addition to the state real estate transfer tax. The stamps affixed to
said deed or instrument for the purpose of showing payment of the state real
estate transfer tax shall also be evidence that the county real estate transfer
tax has been paid in the same amount as shown by said stamps.
   C.   Other Taxes Allowed: The tax herein imposed shall be in addition to all
other occupation or privilege taxes imposed by the state of Illinois or by any
municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof. (Ord., 1-21-1986)
8-2-2: TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED FOR FILING; COLLECTION AND VALUATION:
   A.   Filing Requirement: Except as provided for in section
8-2-3 of this division, no deed or trust document shall be accepted for filing
by the recorder of deeds unless the tax imposed by section
8-2-1 of this division has been paid.
   B.   Collection By Recorder: The recorder of deeds shall, at the time of
filing, collect said tax. The valuation to be used for the collection of said
county tax shall be the same as the valuation used for the collection and
imposition of the state real estate transfer tax, as shown on the real estate
transfer declaration required by provisions of 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes
25/3.
   C.   Tax Payment Deadline: All proceeds resulting from the collection of the
tax imposed by this division shall be paid to the county treasurer by or before
the tenth day of each month. (Ord., 1-21-1986)
8-2-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
The following deeds or trust documents shall be exempt from this division,
except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   Deeds representing real estate transfers made before January 1, 1968,
but recorded after that date and trust documents executed before the effective
date of this division, but recorded after that date.
   B.   Deeds to or trust documents relating to property acquired by any
governmental body or from any governmental body or deeds to or documents
relating to property or interests transferred between governmental bodies, or
by or from any corporation, society, association, foundation or institution
organized and operated exclusively for charitable, religious or educational
purposes.
   C.   Deeds or trust documents which secure debt or other obligation.
   D.   Deeds or trust documents which, without additional consideration,
confirm, correct, modify or supplement a deed or trust document previously
recorded.
   E.   Deeds or trust documents where the actual consideration is less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   F.   Tax deeds.
   G.   Deeds or trust documents of release of property which is security for a
debt or other obligation.
   H.   Deeds of partition.
   I.   Deeds or trust documents made pursuant to mergers, consolidations or
transfers or sales of substantially all of the assets of corporations pursuant
to plans of reorganization.
   J.   Deeds or trust documents made by a subsidiary corporation to its parent
corporation for no consideration other than the cancellation or surrender of
the subsidiary's stock.
   K.   Deeds wherein there is an actual exchange of real estate and trust
documents wherein there is an actual exchange of beneficial interests, except
that the money difference or money's worth paid from one to the other shall not
be exempt from the tax.
   L.   Deeds representing transfers subject to the imposition of a documentary
stamp tax imposed by the government of the United States, except that such
deeds shall not be exempt from filing the declaration.
   M.   A deed or trust document issued to a holder of a mortgage, as defined
in section 15-103 of the code of civil procedure, pursuant to mortgage
foreclosure proceeding or pursuant to a transfer in lieu of foreclosure.
   N.   Any future exemptions enacted by the state of Illinois. (Ord., 2-18-
1986, eff. 2-18-1986)
8-2-4: SPECIFIC DEEDS; DETERMINATION OF PAYMENT:
Document numbers 477802 through 478398 filed in the office of recorder of deeds
of Ogle County, subsequent to May 17, 1979, on which have been affixed state
real estate transfer tax stamps at the rate of fifty cents ($0.50) per five
hundred dollars ($500.00) valuation shall be construed to be the collection of
the state real estate transfer tax at the rate of twenty five cents ($0.25) per
five hundred dollars ($500.00) valuation, and also collection of the county
real estate transfer tax at the rate of twenty five cents ($0.25) per five
hundred dollars ($500.00) valuation. (Ord., 1-21-1986)
DIVISION 3
MOBILE HOME TAX
SECTION:
8-3-1: Mobile Home Tax Rate Established
8-3-2: Senior Citizen Reduction
8-3-1: MOBILE HOME TAX RATE ESTABLISHED:
The tax rate to be imposed upon all mobile homes in the county shall be
established as follows:
 
Tax Year Following Model Year Of Mobile Home             Tax Per Square Foot
Model year and the first and second year following       15 cents
Third, fourth and fifth years following the model year   13.5 cents
Sixth, seventh and eighth years following model year     12 cents
Ninth, tenth and eleventh years following model year     10.5 cents
Twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth years following model 9 cents
year
Fifteenth year following model year and subsequent years 7.5 cents
 
The square footage shall be based upon the outside dimensions of the mobile
home, excluding the length of the tongue and the hitch. (1982 Code)
8-3-2: SENIOR CITIZEN REDUCTION:
   A.   Reduction Provided: The county board shall provide for the
determination of the eligibility of persons sixty five (65) years of age or
over and those persons who are disabled as defined in chapter 120, section
403.14 of the Illinois Revised Statutes for a tax reduction of twenty percent
(20%) and the board shall establish procedures for giving effect to such
reduction.
   B.   Claim Procedure: Persons wishing to claim said reduction shall do so by
filing with the Ogle County clerk within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
mobile home tax bill, an affidavit which shall contain the following
information:
SENIOR CITIZENS
A. I reside in a mobile home located at    
B. I hold title to the mobile home as provided in chapter 951/4 of the
    Illinois Revised Statutes which is located at    
C. My date of birth is    
DISABLED PERSONS
A. I reside in a mobile home located at   
B. I hold title to the mobile home as provided in chapter 951/4 of the
    Illinois Revised Statutes which is located at    
C. My date of birth is    
D. I was totally disabled on  (date)  and l remained disabled until the date
    of this application.
 
The information provided above will include the following statement:
   The undersigned declares under the penalty of perjury that the above
statements are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
The application shall include the signature of the owner, the owner's current
address, as well as a place for the approval by the tax assessor. (1982 Code)
DIVISION 4
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
SECTION:
8-4-1: Provision Of Public Transportation Authorized
8-4-1: PROVISION OF PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION AUTHORIZED:
   A.   The county board of Ogle County shall be authorized to provide, or
assist in the provision of, public transportation within the limits of Ogle
County.
   B.   The county board of Ogle County shall be authorized to submit
applications to federal and/or state agencies for funding to be used in the
provision of public transportation within Ogle County. (Res., 4-16-1985)
DIVISION 5
SUPPLEMENTARY USE TAX
SECTION:
8-5-1: Use Tax
8-5-2: Retailers' Occupation Tax
8-5-3: Service Occupation Tax
8-5-1: USE TAX:
   A.   A county supplementary use tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of
using in the county any item of tangible personal property which is purchased
outside Illinois at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered
with an agency of this state's government, at the rate of one-fourth (1/4) of
one percent (1%) of the selling price of such tangible personal property, as
"selling price" is defined in the "use tax act", approved July 14, 1955, as
amended. The tax shall be collected from persons whose Illinois address for
titling or registration purposes is given as being within the county.
   B.   Such persons in administering and accounting for the tax are subject to
the same rights, remedies, privileges, immunities, powers and duties, and the
same conditions, restrictions, limitations, penalties, and definitions of
terms, and the same mode of procedures as found in the "use tax act" as are now
or hereafter amended, unless otherwise noted or excepted in PA 84-163 (ch. 34,
new par. 409.10a of the Illinois Revised Statutes (1983)). (Ord., 1-18-1986)
8-5-2: RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   A county supplementary retailers' occupation tax at a rate of one-
fourth (1/4) of one percent (1%) is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in
the business of selling tangible personal property at retail within the county.
   B.   Such persons in administering and accounting for the tax are subject to
the same rights, remedies, privileges, immunities, powers and duties, and the
same conditions, restrictions, limitations, penalties, and definitions of
terms, and the same mode of procedures as found in the "retailers' occupation
tax act" as are now or hereafter amended, unless otherwise noted or excepted in
PA 84-163 (ch. 34, new par. 409.1a of the Illinois Revised Statutes (1983)).
(Ord., 1-18-1986)
8-5-3: SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   A county supplementary service occupation tax is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged in the business of making sales of service within the
county at the rate of one-fourth (1/4) of one percent (1%) of the cost price of
all tangible personal property transferred by such servicemen either in the
form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident
to a sale of service.
   B.   Such persons in administering and accounting for the tax are subject to
the same rights, remedies, privileges, immunities, powers and duties, and the
same conditions, restrictions, limitations, penalties, and definitions of
terms, and the same mode of procedures as found in the "service occupation tax
act and retailers' occupation tax act", respectively, as are now or hereafter
amended, unless otherwise noted or excepted in PA 84-163 (ch. 34, new par.
409.2a of the Illinois Revised Statutes (1983)).
A certified copy of this division shall be sent to the Illinois department of
revenue on or before April 1, 1986, as required by law. (Ord., 2-18-1986, eff.
7-1-1986)
DIVISION 6
HOTEL/MOTEL TAX
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Rate; Exemption
8-6-4: Fund; Expenditure Of Monies Collected
8-6-5: Books And Records
8-6-6: Return Of Taxpayer; Payment Of Tax
8-6-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this division is to allow collection of a county hotel/
motel tax for the purposes designated in 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 145/1 et
seq. This division shall be known as the OGLE COUNTY HOTEL-MOTEL TAX ORDINANCE.
(Ord., 3-27-1990, eff. 4-1-1990)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
HOTEL OR MOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The term includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses,
rooming houses and apartment houses.
NET RENTAL RECEIPTS: Gross rental receipts from the business of renting,
leasing or letting rooms in a hotel or motel less rental receipts from renting,
leasing or letting rooms to permanent residents and less any other exclusions
from gross rental receipts allowed by this division.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any
room or rooms in a hotel or motel for any purpose, or the right to the use or
possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of the room or rooms.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel or motel.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any room
or rooms in a hotel or motel for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, or a receiver,
executor, trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of
any court.
RENT OR RENTAL: The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
(Ord., 3-27-1990, eff. 4-1-1990)
8-6-3: RATE; EXEMPTION:
   A.   A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of renting,
leasing or letting rooms in a hotel or motel which is not located within a
city, village or incorporated town that imposes a tax under section
8-3-14 of the Illinois municipal code 1  as defined in "the hotel operators'
occupation tax act" 2 . The tax shall be three percent (3%) of the net rental
receipts from such renting, leasing or letting. (Ord., 5-16-1995, eff. 5-16-
1995)
   B.   Persons subject to the tax imposed by this division may reimburse
themselves for their tax liability under this division by separately stating
such tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with state tax imposed under "the hotel operators' occupation
tax act".
   C.   However, such tax is not imposed upon the privilege of engaging in any
business which under the constitution of the United States may not be the
subject of taxation by this state.
   D.   Persons engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in
a hotel or motel only to permanent residents are exempt from the provisions of
this division. (Ord., 3-27-1990, eff. 4-1-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-3-14.
2 2. 35 ILCS 145/1.
8-6-4: FUND; EXPENDITURE OF MONIES COLLECTED:
   A.   There shall be created a fund called the Ogle County hotel/motel tax
fund into which monies collected pursuant to this division shall be deposited.
This fund shall be administered by the Ogle County treasurer.
   B.   The amounts collected pursuant to this division shall be expended
exclusively to promote tourism, conventions, expositions, theatrical, sports
and cultural activities within Ogle County or otherwise to attract nonresident
overnight visitors to Ogle County. (Ord., 3-27-1990, eff. 4-1-1990)
8-6-5: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every operator shall keep separate books or records of his business as an
operator so as to show the rents and occupancies taxable under this division
separately from his transactions not taxable hereunder. If any such operator
fails to keep such separate books or records, he shall be liable to a tax at
the rate of two percent (2%) upon the entire proceeds from his hotel or motel.
(Ord., 3-27-1990, eff. 4-1-1990)
8-6-6: RETURN OF TAXPAYER; PAYMENT OF TAX:
   A.   Every person engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting
rooms in a hotel or motel in Ogle County, shall regularly file a return with
the Ogle County treasurer, Ogle County Courthouse, Oregon, Illinois, stating:
      1.   The name of the operator;
      2.   The name of the hotel or motel;
      3.   His residence address and the address of his principal place of
business and the address of the principal place of business (if that is a
different address) from which he engages in the business of renting, leasing or
letting rooms in a hotel or motel in Ogle County;
      4.   The total amount of rental receipts received by him during the
reporting period from renting, leasing or letting rooms during such reporting
period;
      5.   The total amount of receipts received by him during the reporting
period from renting, leasing or letting rooms to permanent residents during
such reporting period;
      6.   The total amount of other exclusions from gross rental receipts
allowed by this division;
      7.   Net rental receipts which were received by him during the reporting
period and upon which the tax is imposed;
      8.   The amount of tax due;
      9.   The amount of penalty due, if any; and
      10.   Such other reasonable information as Ogle County may require.
   B.   An operator shall file the returns required hereunder at the same
intervals as he files the returns required under the state "hotel operators'
occupation tax act".
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provision in this division concerning the
time within which an operator may file his return, in the case of any operator
who ceases to engage in a kind of business which makes him responsible for
filing returns under this division, such operator shall file a final return
with the Ogle County treasurer not more than one month after discontinuing such
business. Such return shall prominently note that it is a final return and it
shall clearly state the date of discontinuance of the business.
   D.   Where the same person has more than one business registered with Ogle
County under separate registrations, he shall file separate returns for each
such registered business.
   E.   In his return, the operator shall determine the value of any
consideration other than money received by him in connection with the renting,
leasing or letting of rooms in the course of his business and he shall include
such value in his return. Such determination shall be subject to review and
revision by the Ogle County treasurer.
   F.   Where the operator is a corporation, the return filed on behalf of such
corporation shall be signed by the president, vice president, secretary or
treasurer or by a duly authorized agent of such corporation.
   G.   At the time of filing such return, the operator shall pay to the Ogle
County treasurer the amount of tax herein imposed. All monies received by the
Ogle County treasurer under the provision of this division shall be paid into
the Ogle County treasury.
   H.   The Ogle County treasurer may, upon separate written notice to a
taxpayer, require the taxpayer to prepare and file with the Ogle County
treasurer on a form prescribed by the Ogle County treasurer within not less
than sixty (60) days after receipt of the notice an annual information return
for the tax year specified in the notice. Such annual return to the Ogle County
treasurer shall include a statement of gross receipts as shown by the
operator's last state income tax return. If the total receipts of the business
as reported in the state income tax return do not agree with the gross receipts
reported to the Ogle County treasurer for the same period, the operator shall
attach to his annual information return a schedule showing a reconciliation of
the two (2) amounts and the reasons for the difference. The operator's annual
information return to the Ogle County treasurer may be required to disclose any
additional reasonable information which the Ogle County treasurer deems would
be helpful in determining the accuracy of the monthly, quarterly or annual tax
returns by such operator as provided for in this section.
   I.   If the annual information return required by this section is not filed
when and as required, the taxpayer shall be liable for a penalty equal to one
percent (1%) of the tax due from such taxpayer under this division during the
period to be covered by the annual return for each month or fraction of a month
until such return is filed as required, the penalty is to be assessed and
collected in the same manner as any other penalty provided for in this
division.
   J.   The chief executive officer, proprietor, owner or highest ranking
manager shall sign the annual information return to certify the accuracy of the
information contained therein. Any person who wilfully signs the annual
information return containing false or inaccurate information shall be guilty
of perjury and punished accordingly. The annual information return form
prescribed by the Ogle County treasurer shall include a warning that the person
signing the return may be liable for perjury.
   K.   The foregoing portion of this section concerning the filing of an
annual information return shall not apply to an operator who is not required to
file an income tax return with the state. (Ord., 3-27-1990, eff. 4-1-1990)
DIVISION 7
ENTERPRISE ZONE
SECTION:
8-7-1: Description
8-7-2: Qualifications
8-7-3: Enterprise Zone Designation
8-7-4: Term And Effect
8-7-5: Sales Tax Deductions
8-7-6: Property Tax Abatement
8-7-7: Zone Management
8-7-8: Management Organization
8-7-9: Zone Administrator
8-7-1: DESCRIPTION:
As established by the units of government and approved by the Illinois
department of commerce and community affairs (DCCA), the area of the enterprise
zone shall be as described in exhibit A and as outlined in the map in exhibit
B, which exhibits are on file in the office of the county clerk. (Ord., 10-16-
2001)
8-7-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
Ogle County hereby declares and affirms that the zone area is qualified for
designation as an enterprise zone in accordance with the provisions of the
Illinois enterprise zone act, and further affirms that:
   A.   The zone area is a contiguous area;
   B.   The zone area comprises a minimum of one-half (1/2) square mile and not
more than fifteen (15) square miles in total area;
   C.   The zone area is a depressed area;
   D.   The zone area satisfies any additional criteria established by the
Illinois department of commerce and community affairs;
   E.   On August 6 and August 13, 2001, a public hearing was conducted within
the zone area, and the proposed zone expansion area, on the question of whether
to create the zone, what local plans, tax incentives and other programs should
be established in connection with the zone, and what the boundaries of the zone
should be, and that public notice was given in at least one newspaper of
general circulation within the zone area and the proposed zone expansion area,
not more than twenty (20) days nor less than five (5) days before the hearing;
and
   F.   It addresses a reasonable need to encompass portions of more than one
municipality and adjacent unincorporated areas of the counties. (Ord., 10-16-
2001)
8-7-3: ENTERPRISE ZONE DESIGNATION:
The area described in section
8-7-1 of this division is hereby designated as an enterprise zone, and subject
to the approval of DCCA, in accord and with the law. (Ord., 10-16-2001)
8-7-4: TERM AND EFFECT:
This division shall be and become effective for a period of twenty (20) years
from the original certification date of July 1, 1987, unless sooner rescinded
or as otherwise amended, on the date that the area described in section
8-7-1 of this division, is designated an enterprise zone by DCCA, in accordance
with law. (Ord., 10-16-2001)
8-7-5: SALES TAX DEDUCTIONS:
Each retailer whose place of business is within the incorporated limits of the
city of Amboy, village of Ashton, city of Dixon, village of Franklin Grove,
village of Paw Paw, unincorporated areas of the county of Lee, incorporated
limits of the city of Rochelle, or unincorporated areas of the county of Ogle
and who makes a sale of building materials to be incorporated into real estate
located in the enterprise zone by remodeling, rehabilitation or new
construction, may deduct receipts from such sales when calculating the tax
imposed pursuant to the "Illinois retailers' occupation tax act"; provided,
however, that such remodeling, rehabilitation or new construction is of the
nature and scope for which a building permit is required and has been obtained.
The incentive provided by this section shall commence the first day of the
calendar month following the month in which the enterprise zone is designated
and certified, and shall continue for the term of the enterprise zone. Such
deduction shall be allowed only for building materials incorporated into
commercial, industrial or manufacturing property located within the zone area
within the incorporated limits of the city of Rochelle or within the
unincorporated areas of the county of Ogle and for building materials
incorporated into commercial, industrial, manufacturing or residential property
located within the zone area within the incorporated limits of the city of
Amboy, village of Ashton, city of Dixon, village of Franklin Grove, village of
Paw Paw or unincorporated areas of the county of Lee. (Ord., 10-16-2001)
8-7-6: PROPERTY TAX ABATEMENT:
The county of Ogle authorizes and directs the county clerk to abate ad valorem
taxes imposed upon real property, located within the enterprise zone area, upon
which new improvements have been constructed or upon which existing
improvements have been renovated or rehabilitated, subject to the following
conditions:
   A.   The improvements or renovations are of the scope and nature for which a
building permit is required and has been obtained;
   B.   Any abatement or taxes on any parcel shall not exceed the amount
attributable to the construction of the improvements and the renovations or
rehabilitation of existing improvements on such parcel;
   C.   Such abatement shall be allowed only for commercial, industrial or
manufacturing property located within the zone area;
   D.   Such abatement shall be at the rate of one hundred percent (100%) of
the value of the improvements for the assessment year in which the improvements
are made; eighty percent (80%) of the value of the improvements for the second
assessment year; sixty percent (60%) of the value of the improvements for the
third assessment year; forty percent (40%) of the value of the improvements for
the fourth assessment year; twenty percent (20%) of the value of the
improvements for the fifth assessment year; and thereafter such abatement shall
cease;
   E.   Such abatement shall continue and be in full force as set forth in this
section for any improvements which are completed within the term of the
enterprise zone as specified in section
8-7-4 of this division;
   F.   In the case of properties located within a redevelopment project area
or tax increment financing district created pursuant to real property tax
increment allocation redevelopment act 1 , no abatement of taxes under section
18-170 of the property tax code for new improvements or the renovation or
rehabilitation of existing improvements shall be granted. (Ord., 10-16-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq.
8-7-7: ZONE MANAGEMENT:
Upon designation as an enterprise zone by the Illinois department of commerce
and community affairs, a management organization known as the "Lee County
enterprise zone advisory board" comprised of designated representatives and
alternates of the Lee County board, city of Amboy, village of Ashton, city of
Dixon, village of Franklin Grove, Lee County Industrial Development Association
and village of Paw Paw. This organization will be the governing body of the
enterprise zone and will be responsible for all decisions within the zone. The
zone administrator will be the individual who will be responsible for the day
to day implementations within the zone and will be the liaison between the
management organization, the economic development committee and the Illinois
department of commerce and community affairs. The county of Ogle hereby waives
and relinquishes any right to: a) participate as a member of the management
organization, and b) review and vote upon any amendments to the enterprise zone
ordinance or to the intergovernmental agreement, provided that the enterprise
zone does not expand into areas of Ogle County other than those described in
section
8-7-1 of this division. However, the county of Ogle shall pass any amendments
affecting unincorporated Lee County, the city of Amboy, the village of Ashton,
the city of Dixon, the village of Franklin Grove and the village of Paw Paw,
but only after each of these bodies have approved such amendments. (Ord., 10-
16-2001)
8-7-8: MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION:
The zone administrator may recommend to the management organization one or more
organizations that qualify as designated zone organizations (DZO) under the
provisions of the Illinois enterprise zone act. Upon approval by the management
organization, for a term of years set by the management organization, the DZO
may:
   A.   Provide a forum for business, labor and government action on enterprise
zone innovations;
   B.   Receive title to publicly owned land;
   C.   Solicit and receive contributions to improve the quality of life in the
zone area; and
   D.   Perform such other functions as the management organization may deem
appropriate, not consistent with the Illinois enterprise zone act. (Ord., 10-
16-2001)
8-7-9: ZONE ADMINISTRATOR:
The position of "zone administrator" is hereby created. The zone administrator
shall be the duly appointed and acting president of the Lee County Industrial
Development Association (LCIDA). The duties of the zone administrator shall be
performed in addition to the regular duties of the position of president.
It shall be the power and duty of the zone administrator to:
   A.   Supervise the implementation of the provisions of this division and the
Illinois enterprise zone act;
   B.   Act as a liaison between the counties of Lee and Ogle; the cities and
villages of Amboy, Ashton, Dixon, Franklin Grove, Paw Paw and Rochelle; the
Illinois department of commerce and community affairs; designated zone
organizations; and other state, federal and local agencies, whether public or
private;
   C.   Conduct an ongoing evaluation of the enterprise zone program and submit
such evaluative reports on at least an annual basis to the Lee and Ogle County
board chairmen, the mayors or village presidents of Amboy, Ashton, Dixon,
Franklin Grove, Paw Paw and Rochelle, and the management organization;
   D.   Promote the coordination of other relevant programs, including, but not
limited to, housing, community and economic development, small business,
financial assistance and employment training within the enterprise zone;
   E.   Recommend qualified designated zone organizations to the management
organization; and
   F.   Have other duties as specified by the management organization. (Ord.,
10-16-2001)
CHAPTER 10
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SANITATION
Administrative Provisions   1
Definitions   1A
Administration   1B
Enforcement, Violations   1C
Environmental Fee Schedule   1D
Nuisances   2
Water Supply, Wells   3
Sewage Disposal, Private Systems   4
Administrative Provisions   4A
Licensing Provisions   4B
Sewage System Requirements   4C
Construction Regulations   4D
Disposal Cleaners   4E
Food Sanitation Code   5
Recreational Area Environment (Rep. by Ord., 11-16-1999)   6
General Offenses   7
Rabies Control 1  (Rep. by Ord., 12-22-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)   8
Pollution Control Facility Siting   9
Stormwater Management   10
Hazardous Materials   11
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 5, division 8 of this code.
DIVISION 1
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
ARTICLE A. DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1A-1: Definitions, General
10-1A-1: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this division:
AGRICULTURAL WASTE: Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated on a
farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices including such items
as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials, and crop residues, but
excluding landscape wastes.
DEPARTMENT: The Ogle County health department.
DEPARTMENT ADMINISTRATOR: The acting public health administrator for the Ogle
County health department.
DUMP: Areas in which nonputrefactive material is permitted to be deposited.
FARM: Where farms are exempt from the provisions of this division, they shall
be defined as follows:
A tract or tracts of land used in the production of food or fiber or other
agricultural operations of such extent and character as generally prevail on
farms and shall include farm residences, buildings, and other structures
located on the farm, and being accessories to a farm operation. It shall be a
farm in fact and not in name only.
GARBAGE: Any animal and vegetable matter such as that originating in houses,
kitchens, restaurants and hotels, produce markets, food service and processing
establishments, and greenhouses, and refuse resulting from the handling,
processing, preparation, cooking and consumption of food products.
HEALTH OFFICER: The legally designated health officer and/or health department
administrator of Ogle County or the duly authorized representative or agent.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage and agricultural
waste. The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery and yard trimmings.
LIQUID WASTE: Any discharge from all floor or basement drains, as well as that
from other drainage fixtures.
MANURE: The excrement of all domestic animals and fowl and stable bedding.
OFFAL: Animal waste and refuse.
PERSON: An individual, or a firm or partnership, company, corporation (whether
organized for profit or not), trustee, association, or any public or private
entity.
PLOT OF GROUND: A small piece of ground.
REFUSE: Rubbish, garbage and grade wastes.
RUBBISH: Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; and
the term shall include items such as, but not limited to, rags, old clothes,
leather, rubber, carpets, wood excelsior, paper, ashes, tree branches, yard
trimmings, furniture, tin cans, glass, crockery, masonry, and other similar
materials.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A facility permitted by the Illinois environmental
protection agency for the disposal of waste on land meeting the requirements of
the resource conservation and recovery act, PL 94-580, and regulations
thereunder, and without creating nuisances or hazards to public health or
safety, by confining the refuse to the smallest practical volume and covering
it with a layer of earth at the conclusion of each day's operation, or by such
other methods and intervals as authorized by the Illinois environmental
protection agency.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL AREA: A sanitary landfill or a dumping site.
WELL: Any hole or opening in the surface of the ground for the purpose of
obtaining water, and also any artificial reservoir for the purpose of storing
water.
WELL PIT: A depression below the surface of the ground level immediately
adjacent to a well opening. (Ord., 11-16-1999)
ARTICLE B. ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-1B-1: Health Department Established, Members
10-1B-2: Board Of Health Powers
10-1B-3: Health Officer Powers
10-1B-1: HEALTH DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED, MEMBERS:
A health department is hereby established for the county. The chairman of the
county board is instructed to appoint a board of health consisting of eleven
(11) members in accordance with 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-25001 et
seq., of "an act in relation to the establishment and maintenance of county and
multiple-county health departments" and 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-
23002, a resolution to abolish the tuberculosis care and treatment board, and
establish tuberculosis care within the department, as so resolved by the county
of Ogle on June 16, 1998. (Ord., 11-16-1999)
10-1B-2: BOARD OF HEALTH POWERS:
The board of health of Ogle County shall have those duties, responsibilities
and authority as outlined in 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-25001 et seq.
(Ord., 11-16-1999)
10-1B-3: HEALTH OFFICER POWERS:
Nothing contained in this division shall be construed to limit in any way the
reasonable exercise of powers granted to the health officer or duly authorized
agents under provisions of the common law, or statutes of the state of
Illinois, or by ordinance, or by rules and regulations of the county board.
(Ord., 11-16-1999)
ARTICLE C. ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
10-1C-1: Notices, Orders And Hearings
10-1C-2: Penalties
10-1C-1: NOTICES, ORDERS AND HEARINGS:
   A.   Notices: Whenever the health officer determines that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision
of divisions 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of this chapter or any rule or regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, he/she shall give notice of such alleged violation to the
person or persons responsible therefor, as hereinafter provided. No notice or
hearing as provided by this section is required or a necessary precedent to the
filing of any legal action to require compliance with the county health
ordinance or the filing of any legal proceeding, civil or criminal.
   B.   Hearing Granted Upon Request: Any person affected by any notice which
has been issued in connection with the enforcement of any provision of this
division, or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto as provided in
this division, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before
the department administrator. Such person shall file with the department a
written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief statement of
the grounds thereof within ten (10) days after the notice was served.
   C.   Department Administrator Duties For Hearing: Upon receipt of such
petition, the department administrator shall set a time and place for such
hearing, and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. At such hearing,
the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard, and to show why such
notice should be modified or withdrawn; provided, that upon application of the
petitioner, the health officer may postpone the date of the hearing for a
reasonable time beyond such ten (10) day period, if in his/her judgment the
petitioner has submitted a good and sufficient reason for such postponement.
   D.   Notice Becomes Order: Any notice served pursuant to this section shall
automatically become an order if a written petition for a hearing is not filed
at the department within ten (10) days after such notice is served.
   E.   Proceedings Public Record: The proceedings of such hearing, including
the findings and decision of the department administrator, shall be summarized,
reduced to writing, and entered as a matter of public record at the department.
Such record shall also include a copy of every notice or order issued in
connection with the matter.
   F.   Emergency Orders: Whenever the health officer finds an emergency exists
which requires immediate action to protect the public health, he/she may,
without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an
emergency and requiring such action be taken as deemed necessary to meet the
emergency. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this division, such order
shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed
shall comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the department
administrator, shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible. After such
hearing, depending upon his/her findings as to whether the provisions of this
division and of the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto have been
complied with, the department administrator shall continue such order in
effect, or modify it or revoke it. (Ord., 11-16-1999)
10-1C-2: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate or refuse to obey any provision of division 1, 2,
3 or 4 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, in the discretion of the court.
Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord., 11-
16-1999)
ARTICLE D. ENVIRONMENTAL FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
10-1D-1: Purpose
10-1D-2: Fee Schedule
10-1D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose for implementing fees is to help supplement State grant and local
tax levy dollars that are used to provide both regulatory and voluntary
environmental health services that are currently being provided by the Ogle
County Health Department.
The Ogle County Health Department Administrator has the authority to revise or
amend fees with the approval from the Ogle County Health Board. The Ogle County
Health Department Administrator also has the authority to transfer, waive, or
reduce any of the fees if the situation warrants it (i.e., public health
emergency, hardship cases, overpayment, or other circumstances which would
require a fee alteration). (Ord. O-2019-0506, 5-21-2019)
10-1D-2: FEE SCHEDULE:
Fee Description Fees
Fee Description                          Fees
A. Food service license fees:             
  Facility:                              
   Type III facility (low)             $200.00
   Type II facility (medium)           275.00
   Type I facility (high)              450.00
   Late renewal penalty fee            50% of license cost
  Mobile units:                          
   Type III facility (low)             $100.00
   Type II facility (medium)           175.00
   Type I facility (high)              250.00
   Late renewal penalty fee            50% of license cost
  Temporary food service permit:         
   Type III facility (low)             $ 50.00
   Type II facility (medium)           75.00
   Type I facility (high)              100.00
   Non-profit                          50% of fee
   Late filing fee (less than 1 week   50% of fee
     before event)
   Onsite temporary permit             Double regular fee
  Vending machines                      $25.00
   Late renewal penalty fee            50% of license cost
B. Other food service fees:               
  Cottage permit                        $ 50.00
  Re-inspection (due to violations and/  
   or closure):
   First visit                         50.00
   Second visit                        100.00
   Third visit                         200.00
   Non-compliance fee                  $50.00 per violation
   Late payment penalty fee            50% of fee
  Plan reviews (new or renovation):      
   Type III facility (low)             $ 150.00
   Type II facility (medium)           250.00
   Type I facility (high)              350.00
   (Plan review fee includes: application review, design review, 2 site
     visits, pre- opening visit)
   Additional site visits25.00
   Failure to obtain approval of plan review prior to constructionDouble the
     regular fee
  Administrative hearing$200.00
  HACCP special process review200.00
C. Private sewage disposal fees:
  Installer:
   Annual private sewage contractor license150.00
   License reinstatement after 1-year lapse50.00
   License reinstatement after 3-year lapse75.00
   Licensure exam100.00
  Pumper:
   Annual sewage pumper:
                                      Contractor license125.00
                                      Each truck50.00
                                      Aeration service provider100.00
   Licensure exam75.00
  Late renewal penalty fee50% of fee
  Private sewage disposal permit:
   Residential dwelling (new construction)$325.00
   Residential dwelling (repair)250.00
   Commercial facility (new construction)350.00
   Commercial facility (repair)275.00
   Mechanical units325.00
   Training session for homeowner installation150.00
   Engineering plan review             100.00
   Septic permit variance change       75.00
   Mechanical unit annual registration 50.00
     fee
   Mechanical unit code non-compliance 25.00
     penalty fee (assessed per month)
   Septic permit transfer              50.00
   Late documentation fee (>90 days)   50.00
D. Private well fees:                     
  Water well construction permit fee    $100.00
  Sampling new well (paid with well     85.00
   permit)
  Re-sampling                           65.00
  Dewatering wells over 40' in depth    $ 100.00 for first 10 wells $10.00
                                         each added well
  Abandoned well sealing permit fee     100.00
     If obtained with new well permit50.00
  Vertical geothermal well              $ 100.00 for first 10 wells $10.00
                                         each added well
  Horizontal geothermal well            100.00
E. Water sampling:                        
  Private Water Analytical Fees          
  Bacteria (pass/fail)                  $ 15.00 + Lab
  Bacteria (count)                      15.00 + Lab
  Nitrate                               15.00 + Lab
  Iron                                  15.00 + Lab
  Hardness                              15.00 + Lab
  Lead                                  15.00 + Lab
  Other Chemicals                       (lab cost + postage + handling 5%)
  Private water sample collection       50.00 + lab fee
  On site well chlorination assistance  50.00
      
  Well placement on site visit and/or   50.00
   variance   
F. Other service fees:                    
  Building permits requiring site visit 50.00
  On site zoning consultations          50.00
  Sanitary property evaluation:          
    Water and sewage                    200.00
    Water only                          200.00
   Sewage only                         200.00
   Feasibility study                   100.00
   Follow-up site visit                $50.00 plus lab fees
   1 - 2 day service for above (no     $100.00
     refunds for sanitary evaluation)
  Subdivision plat - well and septic    $50.00 per lot, $150.00 minimum
   feasibility review fee
  Freedom of information requests       $0.15 per page
  Returned checks (NSF)                 $25.00
  License replacement                   10.00
G. Nuisance Complaint and Enforcement*   $500 per investigation; $350 per
                                         additional hour
  * These fees are to be paid by the cities, villages, and incorporated towns
   initiating the investigation
 
(Ord. O-2019-0506, 5-21-2019; amd. Ord. O-2014-1104, 11-18-2014; Ord. O-2023-
0202, 2-21-2023; Ord. O-2024-0904, 9-17-2024)
DIVISION 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
10-2-1: Refuse
10-2-2: Hauling Wastes And Refuse
10-2-3: Dead Animals
10-2-4: Manure
10-2-5: Offal
10-2-6: Open Burning
10-2-7: Privies And Vaults
10-2-8: Unfit Dwellings
10-2-9: Sanitary Standards For Housing
10-2-10: Amplified Sound
10-2-11: Weed Control
10-2-1: REFUSE:
No person shall discharge, deposit, place or permit the discharging,
depository, or placing on any premises, except a sanitary landfill of any
refuse. Garbage and/or rubbish, all empty food and beverage containers and
refuse, including that subject to decay, must be stored in a closed container.
This container must be rodent and fly resistant. (1982 Code)
10-2-2: HAULING WASTES AND REFUSE:
Any vehicle used for the purpose of carrying, carting, hauling or transporting
garbage, rubbish, or miscellaneous waste shall be so constructed and covered as
to prevent any part of the contents thereof from falling, leaking or spilling
therefrom. (1982 Code)
10-2-3: DEAD ANIMALS 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow the carcass of a dead animal to
lie about his premises. Such carcass shall be disposed of within twenty four
(24) hours by burying, or by disposing of it within said time, to a person
licensed to so dispose of such carcass; provided, that the health officer may
prohibit the hauling or transporting of the carcass of any animal which has
died of a highly contagious, infectious or communicable disease. (1982 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-6-12 of this code.
10-2-4: MANURE:
Any manure caused to accumulate within the county is to be removed by the
property owner. Farms as herein defined are exempt from this section. (1982
Code)
10-2-5: OFFAL:
It shall be unlawful:
   A.   To throw or deposit, or cause to be thrown or deposited, any offal or
the carcass of any animal, in any water, pond, spring, or well, or on land
within the county.
   B.   To deposit on the ground surface any manure, dead animal or other
unsanitary substance upon any lot, street, alley, highway, park or any other
place in Ogle County. This does not apply to the application of septage
domestic and municipal sewage sludge, and manure to farm ground which is being
done in accordance with provisions of state law and county codes. (Ord., 10-16-
1990)
10-2-6: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Open burning of "garbage", as herein defined, shall be unlawful except
at those facilities which have been issued a permit to burn garbage by the
Illinois environmental protection agency and when burning of garbage at such
facility is done in a manner which complies with all rules adopted by the
Illinois environmental protection agency for the lawful burning of garbage.
   B.   Open burning of "rubbish", as herein defined, shall not be permitted in
residential areas where there is less than fifty feet (50') from the materials
being burned and the nearest residence. Open burning of rubbish will be allowed
only on the premises on which such waste is generated, when atmospheric
conditions will readily dissipate contaminants, and if such burning does not
create a visibility hazard on roadways, railroad tracks or airfields.
   C.   At no time shall leather, rubber, carpets, furniture, plastic or toxic
materials as defined by the Illinois environmental protection agency, be burned
in residential areas except at those facilities which have been issued a permit
to burn such material by the Illinois environmental protection agency and when
burning at such facility is done in a manner which complies with all rules
adopted by the Illinois environmental protection agency for the lawful burning
of such material.
   D.   Open burning of landscape waste, as herein defined, shall not be
permitted in residential areas where there is less than fifty feet (50') from
the materials being burned and the nearest residence. Open burning of landscape
waste will be allowed only on the premises on which such waste is generated,
when atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants, and if such
burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways, railroad tracks or
airfields. (Ord., 10-16-1990)
10-2-7: PRIVIES AND VAULTS:
The contents of privies and vaults shall not be allowed to overflow onto the
ground surface nor to be allowed to accumulate to a level at which the sanitary
use of the receptacle will be impeded. (Ord., 10-16-1990)
10-2-8: UNFIT DWELLINGS:
The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and the procedure for the condemnation and placarding of such unfit dwelling
units shall be carried out in compliance with the following requirements:
   A.   Condemnation: Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found to
have any of the following defects shall be condemned as unfit for human
habitation and shall be so designated and placarded by the health officer.
      1.   Serious Hazard To Health: One which is so damaged, dilapidated,
unsanitary, unsafe or vermin infested that it creates a serious hazard to the
health or safety of the occupants or the public.
      2.   Lacks Illumination, Ventilation Or Sanitation: One which lacks
illumination, ventilation or sanitation facilities adequate to protect the
health or safety of the occupants or the public.
      3.   Unsanitary Or Dangerous Condition: One which, because of its general
condition, is unsanitary or otherwise dangerous to the health and safety of the
occupants or the public.
   B.   Vacating Premises: Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for
human habitation, and so designated and placarded by the health officer, shall
be vacated within a reasonable time as ordered by the health officer.
   C.   Written Approval For Occupancy: No dwelling or dwelling unit which has
been condemned and placarded as unfit for human habitation shall again be used
for human habitation until written approval is secured from, and such placard
removed by, the health officer. The health officer shall remove such placard
whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding
action were based have been eliminated.
   D.   Placards Not To Be Defaced Or Removed: No person shall deface or remove
the placard from any dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned as
unfit for human habitation and placarded as such except as provided in
paragraph C of this section.
   E.   Hearing: Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the
condemning and placarding of a dwelling or dwelling unit as unfit for human
habitation may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
health officer.
   F.   The provisions of this division shall apply within the geographical
boundaries of the county except in cities, villages and incorporated towns that
provide and enforce rules and regulations which are at least as stringent as
this division. (1982 Code; amd. Ord O-2024-0904, 9-17-2024)
10-2-9: SANITARY STANDARDS FOR HOUSING:
All single- and multi-family housing units shall meet the following minimum
sanitary standards:
   A.   Potable Water: Each dwelling unit shall be provided with potable
running water under sufficient pressure to operate fixtures and appliances. All
associated plumbing must comply with the Illinois state plumbing code.
   B.   Sewage Disposal: Each dwelling unit shall be provided with a sewage
disposal system constructed in compliance with provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Insect And Rodent Control: Each dwelling unit shall be free of insect
and rodent infestation.
   D.   Electricity: All dwelling units shall be provided with electricity.
Electrical wiring shall be installed in accordance with provisions of the
national electrical code and all applicable state fire codes.
   E.   Heating: All dwelling units shall be provided with operable heating
systems capable of maintaining occupied room temperatures above seventy two
degrees Fahrenheit (72°F).
   F.   Natural Ventilation: Each habitable room in a dwelling unit shall be
provided with an operable window or mechanical ventilation device.
   G.   The provisions of this division shall apply within the geographical
boundaries of the county except in cities, villages and incorporated towns that
provide and enforce rules and regulations which are at least as stringent as
this division. (1986 Revisions; amd. Ord. O-2024-0904, 9-17-2024)
10-2-10: AMPLIFIED SOUND:
   A.   Public Nuisance Defined: It is a public nuisance in the County of Ogle,
State of Illinois, for any owner, tenant or other occupant of any property in
unincorporated Ogle County, Illinois, to operate or allow to be operated any
excessively loud musical performances or any type or sound amplification system
which can be heard at a distance greater than five hundred feet (500') from any
property line of the source property during the following times:
      Sunday 8:00 p.m. to Monday 8:00 a.m.
      Monday 8:00 p.m. to Tuesday 8:00 a.m.
      Tuesday 8:00 p.m. to Wednesday 8:00 a.m.
      Wednesday 8:00 p.m. to Thursday 8:00 a.m.
      Thursday 8:00 p.m. to Friday 8:00 a.m.
      Friday 10:00 p.m. to Saturday 8:00 a.m.
      Saturday 10:00 p.m. to Sunday 8:00 a.m.
   Any noise caused by the Ogle County Fair, the Byron Dragway or any event or
entity granted a variance under subsection G herein shall not be deemed a
nuisance. Likewise, this ordinance shall not apply to any noise generated by
agricultural, industrial or construction means.
   B.   Enforcement Agencies: This ordinance shall be jointly or severally
enforced by the Ogle County Health Department, Zoning and Planning Department
and Ogle County Sheriff Department. These agencies are empowered to investigate
complaints made by any individuals or agency regarding this ordinance.
   C.   Warning Of Ordinance Violation: The enforcement agencies referenced in
Section 1 may issue a Warning of Ordinance Violation when the investigation
shows that there has been a violation of any section of this ordinance. The
warning shall, at a minimum, identify violation for which it is being issued,
include the address in which the violation has occurred and require that the
violation cease. The issuance of a Warning of Ordinance Violation under this
section does not prohibit the issuance of a Notice of Ordinance Violation and
the assessment of fines or injunctive relief pursuant to this ordinance.
   D.   Notice Of Ordinance Violation: The enforcement agency may issue a
Notice of Ordinance Violation when an individual has been found in violation of
any section of this ordinance regardless of whether or not the individual has
previously been provided a warning of ordinance violation. A notice, at a
minimum, identify the violation for which it is being issued, shall include the
address in which the violation has occurred and comply with any other
requirements under the applicable law. Any violations are subject to
prosecution by the Ogle County State's Attorney, in the Circuit Court of Ogle
County, pursuant to the office's authority and duties under the law.
   E.   Assessment Of Fines: Any violator who is found to have violated this
ordinance by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be subject to a fine for
each offense. The fine upon conviction for a first offense shall be five
hundred dollars ($500.00). The fine upon violation of a second or subsequent
offense shall not be less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each day that a violation exists or continues
shall be considered a separate offense subject to these penalties.
   F.   Injunctive Relief: In addition to or in lieu of, the actions authorized
under any other provision of this ordinance, the county may request a court of
competent jurisdiction for injunctive relief, cease and desist order, or any
other relief available in law or equity.
   G.   Variance Permits: Variance permits may be issued by the Zoning
Administrator, in accordance with any other applicable provisions of the Ogle
County Zoning Ordinance, to exceed the noise standards set forth in this
ordinance as follows:
      1.   A temporary variance permit may be issued upon request provided that
the event producing such noise is necessary to promote the public health and
welfare and reasonable steps are taken to keep such noise at the lowest
possible practical level. This temporary variance permit may be issued for up
to ten (10) days with a maximum of two (2) variance permits for the same
property in a calendar year.
      2.   A permanent variance permit may be issued upon request, following an
investigation into the source of the noise, including what, if any, measures
can be taken to reduce or eliminate the noise; the cost of any such measure;
and overall evaluation of the request including the severity of the problem
weighted against the cost of remedial measures; the benefit of the public, and
impact on the noise source.
      3.   Any permanent variance can be revoked by the Zoning Administrator if
there is a significant change in the facts from the time the original variance
was granted and if, following the same procedure involved in the issuing the
original permit, the Zoning Administrator concludes that it is in the best
interest of the public to revoke the permit.
      4.   Any decisions of the Zoning Administrator are subject to appeal, by
any affected or aggrieved party, to the Zoning Board of Appeals, in accordance
with the Ogle County Zoning Ordinance.
   H.   Violations To Be Considered By Liquor Commission: Any violations of
this ordinance may be considered by the Ogle County Liquor Commission when
determining any liquor license holder's compliance with the ordinances of Ogle
County and the suspension or revocation of any liquor license pursuant to
4-2C-10 of this code. (Ord. O-2020-0903, 9-15-2020)
10-2-11: WEED CONTROL:
   A.   This section shall be known, cited, and referred to as the “Weed
Control Ordinance of Ogle County, Illinois.”
      [Reference for determined noxious weeds: Illinois Administrative Code,
Title 8: Agriculture and Animals, Chapter I: Department of Agriculture,
Subchapter f: Noxious Weeds, Part 220 Illinois Noxious Weeds, Section 220.60
Noxious Weeds]
      [Reference for the Illinois Noxious Weed Law (Act): Illinois Compiled
Statutes; 505 ILCS 100/1-5, 100/7-24 (from chapter 5, par. 951-955, 957-974)]
   B.   Nuisance declared. All weeds determined to be noxious weeds by the
Illinois Compiled Statutes and applicable rules and regulations thereunder, and
vegetation not covered by the Illinois Compiled Statutes but which serve as a
breeding place for mosquitoes and rodents are a menace to health and are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance. Vegetation on farms for conservation
purposes, and landscape shrubbery and ornamental plants including wildflowers
and prairie grasses are exempt when properly maintained.
   C.   Removal or destruction required. All weeds and vegetation declared a
nuisance under section
10-2-11B. shall be cut, pulled or sprayed and destroyed by the owner, lessee,
tenant, occupant or person in control of the plot of ground at least three
times each year, once prior to June 1, once between June 1 and July 15 and once
between July 15 and September 1, each cutting, pulling, spraying and destroying
being at least 21 days apart. Or as determined necessary by the Reviewing
Authority.
   D.   Enforcement authority. The Ogle County Board shall be the Control
Authority in charge of enforcing this division. The Ogle County Soil and Water
Conservation District shall be the site reviewing authority, reporting its
findings and recommendations to the Control Authority.
   E.   Authority of county to cut. On subdivision lots in residential areas,
when the owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in control refuses or
neglects to destroy the weeds and vegetation within the designated periods, the
enforcing authority may cut them and collect from the owner the reasonable cost
thereof. Notice of intention to cut the weeds and vegetation shall be given to
the owner of the subdivision lot involved at least 15 days before such action
is intended to be taken, by mailing a written copy of such notice to the last
known address of each owner. The cost to the Control Authority for destroying
the weeds and vegetation is a lien upon the property, and the Control Authority
may take all steps to make such lien of record.
   F.   Penalty for violation of section. The failure to destroy weeds and
vegetation declared a nuisance under section
10-2-11B. within the designated periods shall constitute a violation of this
article punishable as provided in section
10-1C-2. Each day that the weeds and vegetation remain beyond the designated
period shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-2021-0901, 7-20-2021)
DIVISION 3
WATER SUPPLY, WELLS
SECTION:
10-3-1: General Provisions, Purity
10-3-2: Public Water Supply Use
10-3-3: Well Construction, Permit And Log
10-3-4: Well And Water System Inspections
10-3-5: Well Location
10-3-6: Well Facility Requirements
10-3-7: Abandoned Wells
10-3-8: Repeal And Date Of Effect
10-3-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS, PURITY:
   A.   General: All sources of drinking water, as well as the distribution
system of water, shall be located, constructed and maintained in accordance
with the standards of the Illinois Department of Public Health and
Environmental Protection Agency and all applicable State Laws and revisions to
applicable laws.
   It shall be unlawful to corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of
any drinking hydrant, spring, stream, pond, lake, or groundwater source to
injure others. If the Health Officer determines a violation of any part of this
Division has occurred the Health Officer may seek penalties as provided in
Section
10-1C-2 of Division 1.
   If water samples collected from a private water supply indicate the water to
be bacteriologically unsafe or high in nitrate concentrations, as determined by
laboratory analysis, the supply shall not be approved for use.
   B.   Unsafe Water Supply: No water that has been condemned as unfit for
human consumption after careful analysis pursuant to the Illinois Department of
Public Health and/or the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency's drinking
water Class I groundwater standard shall be used for human consumption until
the water supply has been declared as safe by the Health Officer
   C.   Private Drinking Water Supply: means any supply which provides for
drinking and/or culinary and/or sanitary purposes and serves only one owner-
occupied single family dwelling.
   D.   Semi-Private Drinking Water Supply: means a water supply which is not a
public water supply system, yet which serves a segment of the public other than
an owner occupied single family dwelling.
   E.   "Community Water System": means a public water system that serves a
least 15 service connections used by residents or regularly serves 25 or more
residents for at least 60 days per year. (Section 9(a)(1)of the Illinois
Groundwater Protection Act.
   F.   "Non-Community Water System": means a public water system which is not
a community water system and has at least 15 service connections used by non-
residents or regularly serves 25 or more non-resident individuals daily for at
least 60 days per year. (Section 9(a)(4) of the Illinois Groundwater Protection
Act.
   G.   Chlorination/Water Treatment Systems: When local conditions exist that
present a hazard to the safety of the water supply which cannot be eliminated
through proper location and construction of the water facility, a treatment
system may be required and prescribed by the Health Officer. Treatment shall
not serve as a substitute for good sanitary practices, including location and
construction of the water system. Water treatment systems designed to disinfect
a known contaminated system must be approved by the Health Officer prior to
installation. Ultraviolet Systems are not approved by the state of Illinois.
Existing well(s) shall not be modified nor have a treatment systems installed
unless approved by the Health Officer. (Ord., 11-16-1999; amd. Ord. O-2014-
1104, 11-14-2014)
10-3-2: PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY USE:
Where a public water supply is reasonably available, that water supply shall be
the sole source of water for all purposes and no permits will be approved. A
public water supply shall be deemed available when a property is located within
two hundred feet (200') of a public water supply to which connection is
permitted by the controlling authority for such water supply. (Ord., 11-16-
1999; amd. Ord. O-2014-1104, 11-18-2014; Ord. O-2024-0904, 9-17-2024)
10-3-3: WELL CONSTRUCTION, PERMIT AND LOG:
   A.   Construction Code: All wells shall be constructed in accordance with
the Illinois Water Well Construction Code: (Part 920).
   B.   License, Permits, and Logs: All persons constructing water well(s) for
human consumption shall be licensed in accordance with the Illinois Water Well
and Pump Installation Contractors License Act (225 ILCS 345).
   C.   Well Modifications or Upgrades that require a permit must be performed
by an Illinois Licensed Well Driller. (See: Sections 920.10 definitions,
modification section 920.110.a) and b) and 920.130 a).
   D.   All persons constructing, driving, repairing, modifying or deepening a
new or existing de-watering wells (greater than twenty (20) feet in depth),
water well, monitoring wells or closed loop well system shall first secure an
Ogle County (Application for Permit to Construct, Modify or Abandon a Water
Well Form IL 482-0620) and shall pay the associated fees (see fee schedule
Section
10-1D-2 of Division I) and shall maintain a log of the specifications. If the
well is not constructed, this permit shall expire at the end of twelve (12)
months from the issue date. A new permit as well as a new fee shall be required
after this expiration. No refunds of fees will be issued or returned.
   E.   Water samples shall be taken by the well driller for all wells designed
for potable water and submit to a certified lab. Results of this analysis shall
be forwarded to the Local Health Department.
   F.   All Drawings indicating the location of wells shall be shown on a site
drawing. If there is no reasonable reference landmark such as a building or
property line, or for lots greater than one (1) acre, the location shall be
identified as closely as possible on a parcel plat plan. Separation distances
to sources of contamination, septic system components, abandoned wells etc.
located on this parcel shall be indicated on the drawing. Any sources of
contamination, septic system components, wells and/or abandoned wells on
adjoining properties within two hundred feet (200') of the proposed well shall
also be shown.
   G.   Notice to begin work: Prior to any work commencing at the site of the
well construction, sealing an abandoned well, the Health Department shall be
given forty-eight (48) hours notice by phone or in writing. In emergency
situations the forty-eight (48) hour notice can be waived by the Health
Officer, forty-eight (48) hour notices are good for seven (7) working days.
After seven (7) working days if work has not begun, a new forty-eight (48) hour
notice must be given.
   H.   All well system upgrades, except for casing extensions and well cap
upgrades, will include the installation of a smooth nosed sample faucet located
a minimum of eighteen (18) inches above the floor, before any water
bacteriological treatment systems and accessible for obtaining a water sample.
   I.   The Health Department shall be informed of all Permits transferred from
one licensed well driller to another prior to beginning work. (Ord., 11-16-
1999; amd. Ord. O-2014-1104, 11-18-2014)
10-3-4: WELL AND WATER SYSTEM INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Right of Entry: The Health Officer shall have the right to enter any
property at any reasonable time to inspect a facility or property to which a
permit has been issued for the purpose of determining whether state and county
codes are being complied with.
   B.   No new water well intended for human consumption shall be placed in
operation until a water sample has been obtained indicating the water is safe
to drink. Licensed well drillers shall submit the results of their water sample
to the Local Health Department.
   C.   Revocation or Suspension of Permit: Upon inspection, if it is found
that the permit holder is in violation of any provision of these regulations,
the Health Officer shall be empowered to revoke or suspend the permit. The
Health Officer may notify the owner or installer to make such changes as
appropriate in the work in order to correct the violation. If such changes are
not made within a reasonable time the Health Officer may revoke the permit and
all installation work shall be immediately suspended. A "Stop Work Order
Posting" shall be placed at the work site. It shall be unlawful to continue
work or use such water supply while a "Stop Work Order" is in affect.
   D.   Lifting Stop Work Order: Work may resume and use of the water may
resume only after the Health Officer determines the condition has been resolved
and code requirements are met. The owner shall be notified that the Stop Work
Order has been lifted by the Health Officer. (Ord., 11-16-1999; amd. Ord. 2014-
1104, 11-18-2014)
10-3-5: WELL LOCATION:
All well sites shall be located at a point of higher elevation and as far
removed from known possible sources of pollution as the general layout of the
premises permit. Minimum distances between the well and sources of pollution
shall be maintained as specified in: (Section 920. Table C Minimal Lateral
Distance in Feet Between Water Wells and Closed Loop Wells and Sources of
Contamination.
If a hazard is identified that is not specified on this chart, a separation
distance or other restriction may be specified by the Health Officer (Example:
Highway Salt Storage Area is located adjacent to the property).
Note: The separation distances apply only to clay and loam soils. In gravel and
sand formations, the safe distances will be variable and specified by the
Health Officer. Example: A separation distance of 150 feet should be maintained
when the site specific soil sample results indicate a loading rate of
1.0GPD.ft² (See section 10-4-D4 of Division 4, Sewage Disposal Construction
Site Specific Soil Samples). (Ord., 11-16-1999; amd. Ord. 2014-1104, 11-18-
2014)
10-3-6: WELL FACILITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Well Pits: On new installations, no pumps, well casings or suction
lines will be located in any pits existing below the finished grade of the
ground surface. Well Casings will terminate a minimum of eight (8) inches above
the finished grade of the ground surface.
   B.   Pumping Equipment: All Pumping Equipment will be installed according to
the Illinois Water Well Pump Installation Code, (77ILL. Adm. Code 927)
   C.   Water Distribution Lines: The water supply shall not have a physical
connection with any non-potable or questionable water supply. On new
installations, all water lines and sewer lines shall not be less than 10 feet
(10') apart horizontally and shall be separated by undisturbed and/or compacted
earth.
   Water lines and sewer lines shall not cross except where such crossings
cannot be avoided. At necessarily crossings the water line shall be kept a
minimum of 18 inches (18") above the top of the sewer line. With vertical
separation maintained, then at least ten feet (10') on either side of the
crossing or the sewer line shall be constructed of cast iron pipe with water
tight mechanical joints or a rubber gasket seal joint that meet ASTM Standard
C564-11, SDR 26PVC pipe or Schedule 40 PVC or heavier with welded water tight
joints or elastomer seals (gaskets) used for push on joints that meet ASTM
Standard F477-10.
   D.   Plumbing Back Flow Devices: All plumbing fixtures and other equipment
connected to the water supply system shall be so constructed and installed as
to safeguard the water supply from the possibility of contamination through
cross connection or back siphoning and meet the requirement of the Illinois
Plumbing Code.
   E.   Any Construction, repair or installation feature not covered in this
division shall meet the minimum requirements of the Illinois Water Well
Construction Code, Illinois Water Well Pump Installation Code and the Illinois
Drinking Water System Code. For this purpose, the Ogle County Health Department
hereby adopts 415 ILCS 30 "Illinois Water Well Construction Code", 415 ILCS 35
"Illinois Well Water Pump Installation Code", and 415 ILCS 55/9 "Illinois
Groundwater Protection Act- Section 9"[ Definitions, regulation of non-
community water systems]of Title 77: Public Health Chapter I: Department of
Public Health. (Ord., 11-16-1999; amd. Ord. 2014-1104, 11-18-2014)
10-3-7: ABANDONED WELLS:
   A.    Definition: Abandoned Well means a water well, monitoring well,
geothermal well or de-watering well which no longer supplies water or is no
longer being used for its intended purpose or which is in such state of
disrepair that the well or boring has the potential for transmitting
contamination into the aquifer or otherwise threatens the public health or
safety.
   B.   All water wells, monitoring wells or geothermal wells or de-watering
that are considered abandoned shall be sealed so as to prevent any surface
water or pollutants from reaching the water bearing strata. Illinois Water Well
Construction Code (77Adm. Code 920).
   C.   Prior to sealing a water well, monitoring well or geothermal well, the
licensed contractor or the resident property owner must first obtain a Well
Sealing Permit from the Ogle County Health Department and pay the appropriate
fees. See fee schedule Section
10-1D-2 of Division I) Permits are issued by the Health Officer. Permits when
issued are valid for a period of twelve (12) months from the issue date. If not
sealed within this twelve (12) month period, a new permit will be required.
Licensed Well Drillers and Resident Homeowners will provide the Health Officer
forty-eight (48) hour notice prior to sealing the well to afford the department
an opportunity to observe the sealing operation. 48 Hour notice is valid for
seven (7) days. (Ord., 11-16-1999; amd. Ord. O-2014-1104, 11-18-2014)
10-3-8: REPEAL AND DATE OF EFFECT:
This division shall be in full force and effect from and after December 1,
2014. At that time, all resolutions and parts of resolutions in conflict with
this division are hereby repealed. (Ord., 11-16-1999; amd. Ord. O-2014-1104,
11-18-2014)
DIVISION 4
SEWAGE DISPOSAL, PRIVATE SYSTEMS
ARTICLE A. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Definitions
10-4A-2: Interpretations And Purpose
10-4A-3: Ogle County Health Officer Inspections
10-4A-4: Variances
10-4A-5: Stop Work Provisions
10-4A-6: Violations, Provisions And Enforcement
10-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to definitions contained in the private sewage disposal licensing
act 1 , and 77 Illinois administrative code 905, the following definitions
shall apply:
ABSORPTION SYSTEM: Any private sewage disposal system that uses the soil for
treatment of the effluent.
BOD5 BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND: A five (5) day empirical test that measures the
oxygen required for the biochemical degradation of organic material and oxygen
used to oxidize inorganic materials such as sulfides and ferrous iron.
BEDROOM: Any room seventy five (75) square feet or larger, excluding kitchen,
dining room, living room, bathroom, and utility rooms that have a closet are
excluded. Rooms such as, but not limited to, studies, libraries, sitting rooms
and playrooms and dens having a closet shall be considered bedrooms for the
purpose of septic system design.
CERTIFIED SOIL CLASSIFIER: A person who is certified through the Illinois Soil
Classifiers Association (ISCA) or through the American Registry Of Soil
Professionals In Agronomy, Crops And Soils (ARCPACS).
CESSPOOL: Receptacle which receives untreated sewage from a building or living
unit and permits the liquid portion thereof to seep into the surrounding soil.
DISCHARGE POINT: The point at which the treated effluent discharges from an
approved sewage disposal system which is compliant with section 905.110(a) of
the Illinois state code.
DOSING TANK: A watertight tank or receptacle used or intended for use, for the
purpose of receiving and retaining effluents or overflow of a septic tank until
discharged by an automatic siphon or pump.
EXPLORATION PIT: An excavation to a minimum depth of seven feet (7') for the
purpose of determining soil characteristics. If refusal occurs (for example if
bedrock is struck) prior to the seven foot (7') depth, the exploration pit is
considered complete.
GRAVEL LESS SEEPAGE SYSTEM: The use of approved perforated eight inch (8") or
ten inch (10") diameter filter wrapped plastic pipe or standard or low profile
chamber system in lieu of four inch (4") perforated pipe and gravel in a
subsurface field and serial distribution systems.
HEALTH OFFICER: The director of environmental health and/or his designated
representative for the purpose of inspections. Permits for installations, or
variances to the code can be reviewed and granted by the director of
environmental health or the health department administrator only.
HOLDING TANK: A watertight reservoir or tank receiving raw sewage for the
purpose of storage before it can be removed for treatment or disposal in an
approved method or location.
HUMAN WASTE: Normal excretory waste of the human body.
INDUSTRIAL LIQUID WASTE: Liquid waste from industrial or manufacturing
operations.
MALFUNCTION: A condition whereby: a) a private sewage disposal system
discharges untreated or partially treated sewage to the ground surface, ground
subsurface or any waterway and/or b) effluent backs up into a building from a
private sewage disposal system.
PROPERTY OWNER: The name of the person on which the legal title to the property
is recorded.
SCUM: The mass of sewage solids floating at the surface of sewage.
SEEPAGE BED: A shallow covered pit with a level bottom wider than three feet
(3') containing gravel and distribution piping designed to allow septic tank
effluents to seep into the ground. It is finished at the same depth as is
recommended for seepage fields and intended for use and intended where there is
insufficient space for a seepage field.
SEPTIC TANK: A watertight, accessible covered receptacle designed and
constructed to receive sewage from a building sewer, to settle solids from the
liquid, to retain floating scum accumulations, to digest organic materials and
store digested solids through a period of retention and allow the clarified
liquids to discharge to other treatment units for final disposal.
SEWER: Any pipe or conduit used to convey sewage.
SHALL: The stated provision is mandatory.
SLUDGE: Accumulated solids settled from sewage.
SUBSURFACE SAND FILTER: A bed of sand with distribution piping and containing
an under drain system for the purpose of collecting and disinfection of the
effluent. All locations below the surface of the ground but arranged to
discharge via gravity or with a pumping system.
SUBSURFACE SEEPAGE FIELD: An open jointed or perforated system of pipes or
chambers to which the effluent from the septic tank or an aeration treatment
unit is discharged and directs seepage into the soil.
TEST BORING: Any exploration made to a minimum depth of seven feet (7') below
the proposed finish grade for the purpose of determining soil type and
limitations. If refusal, i.e., due to bedrock is reached prior to the seven
foot (7') depth, the exploration shall be considered complete. (Ord. O-2015-
0504, 5-19-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 225.
10-4A-2: INTERPRETATIONS AND PURPOSE:
The provisions of this division shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the promotion of public health, safety and general welfare.
In any case where a provision of this division is found to be in conflict with
a provision of any zoning, subdivision, building safety, or health ordinance or
code in force in the incorporated areas of Ogle County existing on the
effective date of this division, the provision which establishes the highest
standard for the promotion and protection of health and safety of the people of
Ogle County shall prevail.
Should any section, clause or provision of this division be declared by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the division as a whole, or any part thereof, other than the part
so declared to be invalid. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4A-3: OGLE COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspections Required: The Ogle County health officer is hereby
authorized and directed to make inspections as are necessary to determine
satisfactory compliance with this division. In any case where a permit is
required, whether new or alteration, no work shall be covered before it has
been inspected by a representative of the department.
   B.   Free Access Required: It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of
the property to give the Ogle County health officer free access to the property
between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. for the purpose
of making such inspections as are necessary to determine compliance with the
requirements of this division. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4A-4: VARIANCES:
When circumstances exist which make compliance with the requirements of this
division impossible, a permit applicant can make a request that the director of
environmental health grant a variance. Such requests shall be in writing and
shall accompany the required permit information and any other information
required by the director of environmental health. Upon review of the variance
request information, the director of environmental health may grant the
variance, request additional information, or disapprove the variance. The
variance must be approved before any work may begin on the system. Any person
who has been denied a variance may appeal to the department administrator for
further consideration. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4A-5: STOP WORK PROVISIONS:
At any time during the construction or alteration of any private sewage
disposal system, when a violation is noted, the Ogle County health officer may
issue a "stop work order". Upon receipt of a "stop work order", the contractor
or resident property owner must submit a plan of correction to the department.
If the plan of correction is acceptable to the department, the "stop work
order" will be lifted and the contractor or resident property owner may then
continue with the construction or alteration. If no action is taken to correct
the noted violation, the Ogle County health officer shall be empowered to
revoke the permit. If upon revocation of the permit, the contractor or resident
property owner still refuses to make the proper corrections to the private
sewage disposal system the Ogle County health officer shall proceed with the
provisions for enforcement outlined in section
10-4A-6 of this article. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4A-6: VIOLATIONS, PROVISIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Ogle County Health Officer Notice Of Violation For Licensed Private
Sewage Disposal Contractor Or Pumping Contractor:
      1.   Violation: Whenever the Ogle County health officer determines there
are reasonable grounds to believe there has been a violation of the provisions
to this division, such Ogle County health officer shall give notice of such
alleged violation(s) to the person to whom the license was issued as
hereinabove provided.
      2.   Notice Of Violation: Notice of violation, content of notice shall:
         a.   Be in writing;
         b.   Include a statement of the reason(s) for the issuance of the
notice;
         c.   After reasonable time, as determined by the Ogle County health
officer, for the purpose of performance of any act that is required, be served
upon the operator or licensee as such case may require; provided such notice
shall be deemed properly served upon such owner, operator or licensee when a
copy thereof has been sent by registered or certified mail to the last known
address, or when notice has been served by any other method authorized by the
laws of this state.
         d.   Contains an outline of the remedial action which is required to
affect compliance with this division and the rules and regulations established
by this division and the rules and regulations under this chapter. In addition,
the Ogle County health officer shall issue a time limit in which to comply with
the remedial action(s).
      3.   Revocation Or Suspension: In the case of a revocation or suspension
of license, this notice shall require the license to remove or abate such
violations and unsanitary or objectionable conditions specified in such notice
within five (5) days or within a longer period as may be allowed by the Ogle
County health officer. If the licensee fails to comply with such terms and
conditions of the notice within the specified time or such extensions of the
time granted, the Ogle County health officer shall revoke or suspend such
licenses and may refuse the issuance of further licenses.
      4.   Hearing Provided: Such person has a right to a hearing before the
department administrator as outlined in section
10-1C-1 of this chapter.
   B.   Emergency Response Action(s): Emergency response actions may be carried
out by the department when a property owner or responsible party fails to
correct a violation of this division that poses an immediate threat to public
health. Prior to the implementation of the response activity, the responsible
property owner or violator shall be given a twenty four (24) hour written
notice to correct the violation. If at the end of the twenty four (24) hour
notice, no corrective action has taken place the department administrator may
obtain services of an approved contractor to make the necessary repairs in
order to protect the public health.
Upon completion of the repair(s), the department shall seek cost recovery from
the responsible property owner or violator who caused the response activity to
occur. The cost recovery shall be the amount which was spent by the department.
In cases where the costs cannot be recovered the department shall place a lien
on the property where the emergency response occurred. In addition to the cost
recovery process, the property owner or violator shall also be subject to
penalties set forth in section
10-1C-2 of this chapter. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
ARTICLE B. LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-4B-1: Permits Required, Fees
10-4B-2: Any System With Surface Discharge
10-4B-3: Licensing Requirements
10-4B-1: PERMITS REQUIRED, FEES:
   A.   Permits Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or
make alterations to, a private sewage disposal system within Ogle County unless
a valid permit has been issued by the Ogle County health officer in the name of
such person for the specific construction or alteration proposed. Permits shall
be issued only to persons licensed under the provisions of this code, and to
resident owners, or intended resident owners who are to personally install the
system for said owner's single-family residence. This exception does not
relieve the owner from obtaining a permit to install and from complying with
the other provisions of these regulations. In addition, resident owners who
intend on installing a private sewage disposal system shall be required to
attend an educational training session provided by the Ogle County health
officer. A fee shall be paid for this educational training session in
accordance with the fee schedule outlined in section
10-1D-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Applications: All applications for permits shall be accompanied by the
property owner's name and address, the location or address of the property for
which the application is being made, the location (county PIN number, if
available) on which the system is to be installed, the general contractor name
and telephone number (if applicable), private sewage contractor's name,
address, and license number (if applicable), and a description of the planned
installation which shall include:
      1.   For new construction of a private sewage disposal system: The type
of facility, structure or dwelling (including plans or drawings of the dwelling
including the number of bedrooms, or population served) which this system is
intended to serve, the kinds of equipment (garbage disposal, hot tubs, water
softeners, etc.) served by this system, and three (3) site specific soil
borings, classified by a certified soil classifier.
      A site map drawn to scale, showing the property size, property
dimensions, property lines, ground slope, locations of all existing and
proposed buildings, wells, neighboring wells (within 100 feet of the property
line), water lines, cisterns, septic tank(s), exploration pits of core borings,
driveways, stormwater or surface water drainage systems, grease traps, existing
private sewage disposal system(s), sewers and any other sewage facilities along
with the designated location and specifications of the proposed private sewage
disposal system components.
      2.   For alteration of an existing private sewage disposal system: The
type of facility, structure or dwelling (including the number of bedrooms)
which this system is currently serving, the kinds of equipment (garbage
disposal, hot tubs, water softeners, etc.) served by the system, the site
specific soil classification obtained by a three (3) site soil survey conducted
by a certified soil classifier.
      A site map showing the property size, property dimensions, property
lines, locations of existing buildings, wells, neighboring wells (within 100
feet of the property line), cisterns, septic tank(s), exploration pits and test
borings, grease traps, existing private sewage disposal systems, sewers, and
other sewage facilities along with design, location, and specifications of the
proposed private sewage disposal system components. In addition, the site map
shall also indicate the required distances between the proposed sewage disposal
system components and well, abandoned well, waterline, stream, lake, pond,
dwelling, property line or farm tile (see paragraph 10-4D-3C of this division
for exact isolation distances).
   C.   Issuance: Issuance of a permit shall be based on a completed
application which conforms to this division. In situations where the limiting
conditions of the site soils are severe or if the private sewage disposal
system has been relocated, the Ogle County health officer may require
additional information (including, but not limited to, additional borings,
exploration pits, or an engineering plan) prior to or as a condition of the
issuance of a permit. Permits shall be issued for a period of one year; if the
system is not completed at the end of the one year period, a new permit will be
necessary.
   D.   Fee: The fee for each application for a permit filed with the Ogle
County health department shall be in accordance with the fee schedule shown in
section
10-1D-2 of this chapter. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4B-2: ANY SYSTEM WITH SURFACE DISCHARGE:
For private disposal systems discharging to the surface of the ground or to any
pond, body of water, stream, river or watercourse in Ogle County either pre or
post treatment, shall obtain a permit from the Illinois environmental
protection agency, in accordance with the provisions of the environmental
protection act and a copy shall be filed with the Ogle County health
department. (NPDES Form ILG62) Section 905.115 NPDES permit compliance. (Ord.
O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4B-3: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: On and after the effective date of this division, no
person may construct, repair, alter, maintain or service a private sewage
disposal system or pump, transport and dispose of waste removed in such a
manner that it does not comply with the requirements listed in this code and
all private sewage disposal and installation contractors and private sewage
disposal pumping contractors shall be licensed in accordance with this
division. If any person is found to be in violation of this paragraph A they
shall be subject to the penalties outlined in section
10-1C-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Exemptions: Resident owners or intended resident owners who construct,
repair or alter a private sewage disposal system for said owner's single-family
residence are exempt from the licensing requirements of this division.
   C.   Application: Application for such license shall be in writing and on
forms provided by the Ogle County health department.
   D.   Issuance And Fee: The director of environmental health shall issue a
private sewage disposal installation contractor license and/or a private sewage
disposal system pumping contractor license to persons applying for such license
who comply with the "minimum performance standards for a private sewage
disposal installation contractor and private sewage disposal system pumping
contractor" adopted by this department and who pay the required annual fee (see
fee schedule at section
10-1D-2 of this chapter). On and after the effective date of this paragraph D,
all new license applicants must present proof of having successfully passed the
private sewage installation contractors and/or the private sewage disposal
system pumping contractors test administered by the Illinois department of
public health. In addition to the state administered exam each new applicant
shall show competence in interpretation and application of soils information
contained in a soil report provided by a state certified soil classifier and
the Ogle County private sewage disposal code by successfully passing a soils
exam administered by the Ogle County health department. The Ogle County health
officer shall review and grade the exam and give notice of exam results to the
applicant. No license shall be issued to an applicant who scores less than
eighty percent (80%) on the exam. A fee for administering the exam shall be
paid in accordance with the fee schedule at section
10-1D-2 of this chapter.
   E.   Revocation: The Ogle County health department administrator shall
suspend or revoke any private sewage disposal system contractor or private
sewage disposal system pumping contractor license if after a hearing, the
department administrator finds incompetence, negligence, misrepresentation, or
failure to comply with the provisions of these regulations. (Ord. O-2015-0504,
5-19-2015)
ARTICLE C. SEWAGE SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-4C-1: Disposal Requirements
10-4C-2: Public Sewer Requirements
10-4C-3: Type Of Waste
10-4C-4: Exposure To Sewage
10-4C-5: Effluent Limitations
10-4C-1: DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS:
All buildings where people live, work or assemble shall be provided with a
sewage disposal system joined and constructed to promote and safeguard the
public health by prevention of contagion and the spread of infectious disease.
Private sewage systems are designed and licensed for each private residence
individually unless specifically authorized by the Ogle County health
department. All systems shall be constructed in accordance with the provisions
of these regulations. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4C-2: PUBLIC SEWER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sanitary Sewer Connections: The Ogle County health officer shall refuse
to grant a permit for the construction of a private sewage disposal system
where public sewer is reasonably available. A sewer shall be deemed available
when a sanitary sewer line is placed within any street, alley, right of way or
easement that adjoins or abuts the premises for which the permit is requested
or when improvement to be served is located within a reasonable distance of
sanitary sewer to which a connection is practical and permitted by the
controlling authority for the sewer. A reasonable distance for the purpose of
this provision shall be deemed as not greater than three hundred feet (300')
from a single-family residence and not greater than one thousand feet (1,000')
from a commercial establishment or a multi-family dwelling flowing one thousand
five hundred (1,500) gallons per day or greater. Upon sanitary sewer
connection, all abandoned septic tanks and seepage pits shall be emptied and
placed in a condition where they will not hold water and filled with sand or
gravel or similar material. When the sanitary sewer system becomes available to
a property operating on a private system, connection to and use of such
facility must be made in accordance with local directives if it is located
within an incorporated city or town. If located outside an incorporated city or
town, whenever major repairs are required to an existing system, or at the end
of the operating life for a system as indicated by a failed seepage field, the
system shall be connected to the public sewage system.
   B.   Unapproved Systems: Cesspools, dry wells, and seepage pits shall not be
constructed. When alterations are required to be made to an unapproved system,
or a major component replacement, the entire unapproved system must be replaced
with a system that complies with this division. Whenever an existing unapproved
system becomes a nuisance, is malfunctioning, or is a potential hazard to
public health, alterations shall be made in accordance with this division.
Major renovation to residential structures, commercial properties or multi-
family structure with an estimated cost of more than twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) shall have an evaluation of their system and may be
required to install a system that meets the requirements of this division,
i.e., additional bedrooms, added seating or major menu changes.
   C.   Alternative Private Sewage Disposal Systems: Where systems other than a
subsurface absorption system are being considered, reference should be given to
the requirements of section
10-4B-2 of this division.
      1.   Privies: Privies are approved for use in forest preserves, parks,
special use areas and camping areas. All privies which are used for the deposit
of human waste shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with this
division and the state of Illinois department of public health, private sewage
disposal code.
      2.   Sand Filters: In areas with soil limitations which preclude the use
of a subsurface seepage field or bed system, sand filters may be used.
Installation in exact accordance with design criteria is necessary for the
proper functioning of such systems. Sand filters, where approved, shall be
installed in accordance with the state of Illinois public health private sewage
disposal code.
      3.   Aeration Systems: All aeration systems shall be constructed,
installed, operated and maintained in accordance with the Illinois public
health sewage disposal code with the following additional requirements:
      Aeration units installed prior to 1992 were not required to have an
annual inspection and service agreement. If a unit installed prior to 1992
requires major repair or upgrade requiring a permit from this division, the
system will be required to be brought into compliance with the current code. At
that time, all inspection criteria and maintenance contracts will be required
going forward.
      For all nonexempt aeration systems (those installed after 1992 and those
that have been upgraded), the property owners, where aeration treatment or
chemical systems are located, shall provide for biannual inspection and
maintenance of that system in the form of a maintenance contract or policy with
the manufacturer or distributer of the equipment installed. There shall be a
five (5) month interval between each biannual inspection and maintenance
activity. A copy of such agreements shall be placed on file with the Ogle
County health department. Such agreement shall be maintained by the property
owner for the life of the system. The contractor providing the required
inspection and maintenance shall submit a written report to the Ogle County
health department which shall include a statement of the condition of the
system including the following:
         a.   Aeration motor - operational status, i.e., is the motor operable?
         b.   Trash tank capacity status, i.e., does the tank need pumping?
         c.   Filters/clarifiers - operational status, i.e., functioning
properly?
         d.   Chlorination/disinfection device - operational status?
         e.   Alarm system - operational status?
         f.   Laboratory analysis - submit results of analysis within thirty
(30) days of sampling.
      The results of the laboratory analysis of the effluent quality of surface
discharge units shall include no BOD5, suspended solids, chlorine residue or
other disinfection efficacy and fecal chloroform counts. The results of
laboratory analysis of effluent quality of subsurface discharging units shall
include BOD5 and suspended solids.
      A postchlorination sampling port shall be installed on all aeration
treatment units that have a surface discharge to a surface seepage line. A
sampling port shall be installed immediately after the aeration treatment unit.
The aeration unit sampling port shall be maintained for the life of the unit.
The sampling port shall be designed so the effluent may be easily collected.
      If any deficiency is observed during the inspection of the system, or if
the effluent quality of the grab samples collected for laboratory analysis of
effluent in this paragraph C3 does not comply with the effluent standards set
forth in the Illinois department of public health private sewage disposal code,
the property owner shall take action to immediately bring the system into
compliance with this paragraph and with the Illinois department of public
health private sewage disposal code. The property owner or responsible operator
of the system shall comply with this paragraph or be subject to penalties
outlined in section
10-1C-2 of this chapter.
      4.   Other Alternative Private Sewage Disposal Systems: Other alternative
sewage disposal systems or individual components of an alternative private
sewage disposal system shall be considered for construction by the Ogle County
health officer upon receipt of the completed Ogle County private sewage
disposal system application and fees, if the following conditions have been
met:
         a.   The alternative private sewage disposal system or component has
been approved by Illinois department of public health through the Illinois
private sewage disposal code through an experimental permit issued by the
Illinois department of public health or through other documents issued by the
Illinois department of public health, and
         b.   Any alternative system that generates a surface discharge shall
also meet the maintenance agreement requirements and discharge effluent
standards set forth in paragraph C3 of this section, and
         c.   Any alternative system that generates a surface discharge shall
also have an approved permit for installation from the Illinois environmental
protection agency. (NPDES permit) (ILG62) 77 Illinois administrative code
905.115.
      5.   Chamber Systems Sizing: When sizing a chamber system for use as a
subsurface seepage field, the square foot area calculation shall be the same as
set forth in the Illinois department of public health private sewage disposal
code. The area calculation is based on the chamber width equivalent multiplied
by the trench length times a code established multiplier. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-
19-2015)
10-4C-3: TYPE OF WASTE:
The system shall be designed to receive all domestic sewage from the building
served. No cooling water, groundwater, discharge from roof drains, discharge
from footing drains, or other clear water discharges shall be directed to the
private sewage disposal system. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4C-4: EXPOSURE TO SEWAGE:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged raw or partially treated
sewage, the effluents from any septic tank, subsurface disposal field,
malfunctioning private sewage disposal system or the contents of any privy,
vault or chemical toilet directly or indirectly into any river, stream, ground
surface, field tile, storm sewers, village tiles, or abandoned wells or
maintain or operate a private sewage disposal system in such a manner that it
becomes offensive, dangerous, or prejudicial to the public health. If any
person is found to be in violation of this section they shall be subject to the
penalties outlined in section
10-1C-2 of this chapter. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4C-5: EFFLUENT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Limitations: Effluent from any private sewage disposal system shall not
discharge into any well or any opening into an underground mine, cave or
tunnel. Effluent surface discharges shall be prohibited on parcels where
subsurface systems are allowable for construction under this paragraph.
Effluent surface discharge shall not exceed a density of one every five (5)
acres. Effluent surface discharges shall not be permitted on parcels created
after the effective date of this paragraph. New systems with anticipated
surface discharge requirements must receive approval from the Illinois
environmental protection agency. (NPDS permit)(ILG62)
   B.   Disinfection: All approved effluents discharged to the ground surface
or to a watercourse must be disinfected with chlorine or other disinfectant as
approved by the department. A disinfectant residue between 0.2 and 1.5
milligrams per liter shall remain following thirty (30) minute contact period.
(Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
ARTICLE D. CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4D-1: Septic Tank Construction Requirements
10-4D-2: Septic Tank Capacity
10-4D-3: Sewage Lift Station Construction Requirements
10-4D-4: Location
10-4D-5: Soil Suitability And Sizing
10-4D-6: Distribution Box
10-4D-7: Quantities Of Sewage Flow
10-4D-8: Subsurface Seepage System; Design And Construction Requirements
10-4D-9: Subdivision Plat; Private Sewage Disposal Feasibility Review
10-4D-10: Sanitary Evaluation
10-4D-1: SEPTIC TANK CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All prefabricated septic tanks must be approved by the Illinois
department of public health in accordance with 77 Illinois administrative code
905, section 905.40 septic tanks. An approved tank must bear the manufacturer's
approval number and the internal liquid capacity of the tank as specified by
the Illinois department of public health.
   B.   Septic tanks shall be watertight and constructed of sound and durable
materials not subject to excessive corrosion, decay, frost damage, cracking or
buckling due to settlement or backfilling. All tanks shall be so designed to
support a top load of not less than five hundred (500) pounds per square foot.
If additional loading is anticipated the design load shall be adjusted
accordingly.
   C.   Plans for site constructed tanks must be approved by this department
and must meet the state requirements of 77 Illinois administrative code 905,
section 905.40 septic tanks.
   D.   Inlet, outlet and baffle arrangements of the septic tank must be in
accordance with 77 Illinois administrative code 905, appendix A, illustrations
E, exhibits A, B or C.
   E.   Maintenance and inspection covers for the septic tank(s) shall be in
accordance with 77 Illinois administrative code 905.40.
   F.   Access ports for access to the tank for cleaning, or for tanks with an
installed filter, shall terminate at least six inches (6") above ground level
for servicing. Outlet filtration devices may also serve as the outlet baffle as
long as they are installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
These access ports shall be watertight. The filter shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
   G.   Outlet filters may also be installed anywhere between the septic tank
outlet and the field. An access port must be provided for this filter and it
shall terminate a minimum of six inches (6") above the ground surface for
servicing.
   H.   Septic system license installer(s) shall provide the septic tank sizing
and specifications, along with servicing instructions for cleaning the filter,
if applicable, to the property owner following installation. (Ord. O-2015-0504,
5-19-2015)
10-4D-2: SEPTIC TANK CAPACITY:
Ogle County requires a minimum septic tank capacity, regardless of the number
of bedrooms or other sizing requirements, of one thousand two hundred (1,200)
gallons. All other septic tank capacity requirements for residential purposes
shall be in accordance with 77 Illinois administrative code 905, section 905,
appendix A, illustration F.
Septic tanks used for any establishment other than residential property shall
be sized in accordance with the estimated flow provided in appendix A,
illustration A and as provided in section (c)(2) of 77 Illinois administrative
code 905, section 905.
For additional bedrooms, add two hundred fifty (250) gallons' liquid capacity
for each. With a garbage grinder installed, the septic tank size shall be
increased by fifty percent (50%).
When the total capacity exceeds one thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons, two
(2) tanks in series shall be installed with at least one-half (1/2) but no more
than two-thirds (2/3) of the total capacity provided in the first tank.
Septic tanks for any establishment other than residential units shall be sized
in accordance with the flow provided in appendix A, illustration A as provided
in paragraph (c)(2) of 77 Illinois administrative code 905, section 905. (Ord.
O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4D-3: SEWAGE LIFT STATION CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
Lift stations shall be constructed in accordance with 77 Illinois 905, section
905.125 pumps, pumping/dosing chambers and ancillary equipment and with the
following additional requirements:
   A.   The lift station shall dose the system a maximum of four (4) times per
day at design flow.
   B.   Lift stations shall comply with the 77 Illinois division 905 and pumps
and alarms shall be installed in accordance with the national electrical code
and shall be sized to provide the designed dose in no more than twenty (20)
minutes. Systems with design flows in excess of one thousand (1,000) gallons
per day shall have alternating pumps to provide dosing to the system at the
proper flow rate.
   C.   Access to the lift station shall be through a twenty four inch (24")
manhole. The manhole riser or the top of the lift station shall extend a
minimum of six inches (6") above grade and/or six inches (6") above the highest
known water level in wet areas. If a riser is utilized, it shall be watertight
and have a watertight access cover. Access by children shall be prevented by a
cover that is secured by devices requiring tools for entry or by a lock.
   D.   Lift stations shall be designed so the pump(s) may be electrically
disconnected and removed without requiring physical entry into the lift
station.
   E.   Lift station tanks shall be designed to have sufficient volume to meet
the dosage requirements stated in paragraph A of this section plus a reserve
volume. The reserve volume shall be the volume of the tank between the high
water alarm switch and the invert of the inlet pipe. The reserve capacity shall
be greater than or equal to one-half (1/2) of the estimated daily wastewater
flow calculated for this private sewage disposal system.
   F.   Any components of a private sewage disposal system that are
electrically energized to operate shall have an indicating light to show when
they are activated. High water alarms and other warning devices shall have
visible and audible alarms. Alarms shall be located external to the house and/
or buildings and in the vicinity of the lift station. Alarm circuits shall be
separate circuits from the pump(s) circuitry. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4D-4: LOCATION:
The location of a private sewage disposal system shall be selected with
consideration to the location(s) of the nearest well(s) or other sources of
water supply, topography, existing private sewage disposal systems on this or
adjacent properties, water table, soil characteristics, available area,
expected volumes of domestic sewage, and shall comply with all provisions of 77
Illinois administrative code 905, section 905 and the requirements of this
division regarding design.
   A.   There shall be at least four feet (4') of soil between the bottom of
the subsurface seepage field and bedrock. In situations where these conditions
cannot be met, the sewage disposal contractor may utilize section 905, appendix
A, illustration M, exhibit A of 77 Illinois administrative code section 905 as
a guide for the minimum separation to a limiting layer (bedrock) or the private
sewage disposal contractor may submit an engineering plan (in accordance with
paragraph B of this section).
   B.   When a property consists entirely of soils having severe limitations
for the construction of a private sewage disposal system as determined by the
results of on site test borings or exploration pits, such data may be used as a
basis for denial of approval of a private sewage disposal system permit. The
private sewage disposal contractor or property owner may consider utilizing an
alternative private sewage disposal system (as described in paragraph 10-4C-2C
of this division) in order to overcome the severe limiting soil condition. In
all cases where a permit has been denied, the private sewage disposal
contractor or property owner shall be permitted to appeal the permit denial by
submitting an engineering plan.
The engineering plan shall be submitted to the Ogle County health department
and provide specific solutions for the limiting conditions. The submitted
engineering plan shall include a scaled site plan, private sewage disposal
system design specifications, calculations and be "sealed" by a professional
engineer certifying that: 1) it is possible to install a private sewage
disposal system at the subject property pursuant to the requirements provided
in this division, 2) that the design submitted will not interfere with or
potentially contaminate existing water supply wells, and 3) that the
engineering plan will overcome the existing soil limitations. The Ogle County
health officer shall review the engineering plan and determine if it meets the
requirements of this division. A fee shall be paid for the review of the
engineering plan in accordance with the fee schedule outlined in section
10-1D-2 of this chapter. If the engineering plan is acceptable, a sewage permit
shall be issued.
   C.   The Ogle County health department shall review permit applications for
private sewage disposal systems located in the local floodplain (100-year
frequency flood elevation or special hazards area) on a case by case basis. New
septic system installations in the floodplain have been greatly limited by
state regulations. Refer to latest IDNR and EPA restrictions.
   D.   The individual units of the private sewage disposal system shall be
located in accordance with 77 Illinois administrative code 905, section 905,
illustration D, location of components of private sewage disposal systems.
   The division imposes the following added restrictions:
      1.   Separation between the septic tank and/or the septic system
belowground septic field and an aboveground pool shall be a minimum of ten feet
(10').
      2.   Separation between a septic tank and/or the septic system
belowground septic field and an inground pool shall be a minimum of twenty five
feet (25').
      3.   The building sewer line or surface discharge effluent line may be
located to within ten feet (10') of the well or suction line from the pump to
the well when cast iron with mechanical joints or schedule 40 PVC pipe with
watertight joints is used for the building sewer line or surface discharge
effluent line.
      4.   The line from the septic tank to the distribution box must be
schedule 40 PVC. This line must have a cleanout connection every fifty feet
(50'). These cleanouts shall be exposed above the ground by six inches (6").
      5.   The Ogle County health officer may increase separation distances for
any specified component after reviewing the soil properties, the slope and the
specific hazard (i.e., the separation distance of 150 feet should be maintained
between the distribution box or the subsurface absorption field and the well or
water pump suction line when the site specific soil sample results indicate a
loading rate [below the absorption field trench bottom] equal to or greater
than 1 gallon per day per square foot (GPD/ft2)). (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4D-5: SOIL SUITABILITY AND SIZING:
   A.   Criteria For Soil Suitability:
      1.   Soil analysis conducted using exploration pits and/or borings to
seventy two inches (72") or to refusal, analyzed by a person who meets the
requirements of 77 Illinois administrative code 905 is the only method used in
Ogle County to determine private sewage disposal system sizing.
      2.   Prior to constructing a private sewage disposal system, the Ogle
County health department shall require at least three (3) on site exploration
pits or soil borings in the immediate area where the proposed location of the
subsurface absorption system will be located. The on site exploration pits of
soil borings shall be analyzed by a person who meets the requirements outlined
in 77 Illinois administrative code 905. An analysis of the soils shall be
submitted to the department signed by a certified soil classifier or a person
who meets the requirements of 77 Illinois administrative code 905.
      3.   Soil borings and/or exploration pits shall be conducted in a
triangle configuration with a maximum separation of one hundred feet (100') for
private single lots. Soil borings and/or exploration pits for subdivisions with
multiple lots where a wide range survey is being conducted, the separation of
the pits or borings may be increased to one hundred fifty feet (150') and may
be done on a square grid pattern. In areas with shallow bedrock or severely
limited soils the Ogle County health officer may specify a smaller separation
distance.
      4.   Two hundred (200) gallons per day shall be used for sizing
calculations for residential private sewage disposal systems. The flow chart of
77 Illinois administrative code 905 shall be used for all other flow
calculations.
      5.   Soil reports shall contain the following information:
         a.   Scale drawing indicating the location of each soil boring and/or
exploration pit.
         b.   Soil description to a depth of seven feet (7') or to the depth of
refusal for each soil boring and/or exploration pit.
         c.   Depth to bedrock if determined.
         d.   Depth to observed saturation.
         e.   Depth to seasonal saturation.
         f.   Soil series, sample method, soil texture, mottling description
and permeability range for each boring of exploration pit.
      6.   Prior to alteration of repair to an existing private sewage disposal
system a soil survey may be required. The Ogle County health officer shall
specify the general location and the number of soil borings and/or exploration
pits required. In some instances, based on available documentation, existing
soil surveys may be used.
      7.   Building permits for major renovations that include additional
bedrooms or changes of commercial use may require an analysis of the private
sewage disposal system. If the installed system does not meet the design
criteria for the new flow rates, a modification or replacement system may be
required by the Ogle County health officer prior to authorizing the building
permit. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4D-6: DISTRIBUTION BOX:
A distribution box may be provided to receive effluent from the septic tank to
ensure equal distribution to each individual line of the disposal field. The
distribution box shall be constructed of watertight material and not subject to
corrosion or decay and must be placed in such a manner that it will remain
level. It should be placed on undisturbed soil. The pipe connecting the septic
tank to the distribution box shall be watertight and schedule 40 PVC or
equivalent. The distribution box shall be located seven feet (7') or more from
the septic tank. Lines going to the field or to secondary distribution boxes
must be connected by rigid, nonperforated schedule 40 PVC or equivalent for a
minimum of three feet (3') and shall have sealed connections. These lines shall
be level and resting on undisturbed soil. All connections from the septic tank
to the distribution box and to the field shall be sealed. The lines to the
distribution box(es) and from the distribution box(es) shall not be counted as
a part of the seepage field. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4D-7: QUANTITIES OF SEWAGE FLOW:
The calculations specified by 77 Illinois administrative code 905 shall be used
calculating residential private sewage disposal systems flow. 77 Illinois
administrative code 905, section 905, illustration A will be used for
calculating sewage flow for nonresidential private sewage disposal systems.
(Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4D-8: SUBSURFACE SEEPAGE SYSTEMS; DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Seepage Field: The bottom of each trench and its distribution lines
shall be level and there shall be a minimum of six inches (6") and a maximum of
twenty four inches (24") of ground cover over the gravel fill in the trenches.
Each trench shall follow as close as possible the ground contour so that
variations in trench depth will be minimized. The area to be used for the
seepage field shall be maintained free from encroachment by driveways and
ancillary buildings, paved playgrounds, parking lots and other paved areas and
any vehicular traffic.
   B.   Seepage Beds: Where a seepage bed is being used in lieu of a seepage
field, the total bottom area of the seepage bed required shall be one and one-
half (11/2) times the absorption area specified in section
10-4D-4 of this article. Seepage beds shall meet the requirements of a seepage
field except the excavation is more than three feet (3') wide and has more than
one distribution line. Distribution lines in a seepage bed shall be uniformly
spaced and no more than six feet (6') apart and no less than three feet (3')
apart and no more than three feet (3') from a side wall. The minimum width of a
seepage bed is nine feet (9').
   C.   Absorption Area: The absorption area of either an absorption field or
absorption bed shall be computed by using the bottom area only. Seepage fields
or beds shall be configured so that no line will be a dead end, but the system
shall be complete circuit connections of distribution lines and adjacent
trenches shall be tight joint "T's", ninety degree (90°) elbows or a corner box
or dropbox arrangement. Variations of this requirement are subject to approval
by the Ogle County health officer.
   D.   Smeared Soils: Seepage fields or beds shall be excavated when the soil
is not so wet as to cause smearing. All smeared or compacted soil shall be
scarified to the depth of the compaction and the loose material removed.
   E.   Minimum Standards For Seepage Field: (See section 906.60.)
 
1. Lines per field (minimum number)    2
2. Individual lines (maximum length)   100 feet
3. Trench bottom (minimum width)       36 inches
4. Seepage tile (minimum diameter)     4 inches
5. Seepage trench (minimum separation) 6 feet
6. Seepage tile lines (maximum slope)  None. Must be level
 
   F.   Size And Spacing: In accordance with 77 Illinois administrative code
905, section 905.60.
   G.   Soil Requirements; Bedding Materials: In accordance with 77 Illinois
administrative code 905, section 905.60.
   H.   Serial Distribution: Design requirements as specified in 77 Illinois
administrative code 905.60.
   I.   Dosing Tank: As specified in 77 Illinois administrative code 905,
section 905.60.
   J.   Perimeter Drainage: Where seasonal saturation of other limiting factors
exist that prevent the proper installation of a private sewage disposal system,
a perimeter drain can be installed around the proposed submerged seepage field.
A perimeter drain shall not be installed where soil absorption rates are
greater than or equal to 0.91 GPD/ft2.
The perimeter drain shall be maintained at a ten foot (10') horizontal distance
from the subsurface seepage field or any other source of contamination. The
perimeter drain shall also be maintained at a two foot (2') vertical depth
below the subsurface absorption field. If a lift station is installed as part
of the perimeter drainage system, it shall have an installed alarm system.
   K.   Approved Personnel On Site: The licensee or an authorized
representative shall be on site at all times during construction, renovation or
removal of a private sewage disposal system. At a minimum, the authorized
representative shall possess a current state license as a private sewage
disposal contractor. A copy of the construction, renovation of removal permit
shall be available on site during the construction, renovation or removal
process. In addition, the contractor shall submit a list of personnel to the
Ogle County health department indicating who the authorized representative is.
   L.   Construction Features Not Covered: Construction features not covered by
this division shall meet the minimum requirements of the Illinois private
sewage disposal codes, 77 Illinois administrative code 905, the Illinois
electrical code and any associated codes referenced at the beginning of this
division. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4D-9: SUBDIVISION PLAT; PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FEASIBILITY REVIEW:
   A.   Subdivision Review: The division utilizes chapter 14 of this code and
this division in order to conduct a compliance review and make construction
recommendations for subdivision preliminary plats. The Ogle County health
department shall assess a fee to review a preliminary or final plat and conduct
a site visit. The fee shall be in accordance with the fee schedule outlined in
section
10-1D-2 of this chapter.
   In addition, when a subdivision storm drainage plan is developed, it shall
take into consideration the maximum trench depth of the proposed private sewage
disposal system and any seasonal saturation issues so that no stormwater can
migrate back to the seepage field via the stormwater removal. Any design that
utilizes a stormwater retention and/or detention basin (utilized for either
stormwater control or dewatering of a subdivision) shall take into account the
maximum water elevation of the retention/detention basin. The developer/
engineer shall design the retention/detention basin so the maximum water
elevation of the retention/detention basin is established at a lower elevation
than the deepest private sewage disposal system or curtain drain.
   The developer/engineer shall provide a written private sewage disposal plan
(that will become a part of the subdivision construction plat) that describes
how the integrity of the reserve areas for primary and secondary subsurface
seepage systems is to be protected during the property development. The plan
shall specify how the original native soils intended for private sewage
disposal are to be protected from the following activities: vehicular
compaction, site grading, site excavation, soil staging, site leveling, filling
and coring. The plan shall also state that the reserve areas will be marked and
flagged off in order to prevent the above activities from disturbing the
original soil conditions. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4D-10: SANITARY EVALUATION:
At the request of the owner of the property or the representative of the owner,
the Ogle County health department shall conduct a visual sanitary evaluation of
a property in order to determine general compliance with this division. The
division shall charge a fee for this service in accordance with the fee
schedule outlined in section
10-1D-2 of this chapter. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
ARTICLE E. DISPOSAL CLEANERS
SECTION:
10-4E-1: Licensing
10-4E-2: Vehicle Identification
10-4E-3: Vehicle Construction And Equipment
10-4E-4: Inspection Of Equipment
10-4E-5: Sludge Disposal Site
10-4E-6: Repeal And Date Of Effect
10-4E-1: LICENSING:
No person or private sewage disposal system contractor shall engage in or carry
on the business of cleaning or servicing septic tanks, seepage pits, portable
toilets, cesspools or other disposal units unless such a person has a license
under section
10-4B-3 of this division. Approved personnel shall be on site during the
pumping, transportation and land application of septage. For this division,
approved personnel shall mean: any person that possesses a valid Illinois state
private sewage disposal system pumping contractors license. If any person is
found to be in violation of this article, they shall be subject to penalties
outlined in section
10-1C-2 of this chapter and/or the division may take action in accordance with
section
10-4A-6, "Violations, Provisions And Enforcement", of this division. (Ord. O-
2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4E-2: VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION:
All trucks and other vehicles used to transport sewage wastes shall have
signage placed on the vehicle before the license can be issued. The signage
shall be on both sides of the vehicle in a conspicuous location. The signage
shall have letters no less than eight inches (8"). The signage must be in a
contrasting color to the truck so it is visible. The words "Ogle County license
no.", along with the letters and numbers associated with the license number
shall be on both sides of the truck. The name of the company and the company
address shall be on both sides of the truck. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4E-3: VEHICLE CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT:
Each vehicle used for the collection and transport of waste shall be equipped
with a leakproof and flytight tank for sludge hauling. The interior and
exterior sections of all portable containers, pumps, hoses, tools and other
implements which have been contaminated shall be rinsed clean after each use.
Trucks and tanks must comply with the following:
   A.   The vehicle shall be equipped with either a vacuum pump or other type
of pump which will not allow any leakage or seeping and which is self-priming.
   B.   Following use, each sewage hose on the truck shall be thoroughly
rinsed, drained and stored in such a manner that the contents will not poise a
hazard or a nuisance.
   C.   The discharge nozzle shall be located so there is no flow or drip onto
any portion of the truck.
   D.   The discharge nozzle shall be capped when not in use. (Ord. O-2015-
0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4E-4: INSPECTION OF EQUIPMENT:
Equipment shall be subject to inspection and approval by the Ogle County health
officer upon request, at any reasonable time, and shall be available for
inspection at a designated location.
For annual inspection requirements, companies that are based outside the
county, a copy of the annual inspection conducted by that county will be used
as the inspection of record and these inspection forms shall be forwarded to
this department. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4E-5: SLUDGE DISPOSAL SITE:
Each licensed contractor engaged in sludge disposal shall file with this
department, on a yearly application form, a statement of the place and method
(s) of disposal of domestic sewage sludge. Each disposal site shall be
inspected and approved prior to the issuance of land application permit.
Methods of disposal of domestic septage shall be in accordance with the
Illinois department of public health's sewage disposal licensing act and code.
In addition, locations utilized for disposal of domestic sludge shall meet the
minimum requirements set forth in the Illinois department of public health's
private sewage disposal licensing act and code.
All new land application sites must be inspected and approved prior to being
used for the disposal of domestic septage. A fee for the original land
application review shall be paid to the Ogle County health department prior to
operation. In addition, an annual fee to operate the land application site for
domestic septage disposal shall be paid to the Ogle County health department.
All fees paid to the department shall be in accordance with the fee schedule
shown in section
10-1D-2 of this chapter. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
10-4E-6: REPEAL AND DATE OF EFFECT:
The division shall be in full force and effect from and after June 1, 2015. At
that time, all resolutions and parts in conflict with this division are hereby
repealed. (Ord. O-2015-0504, 5-19-2015)
DIVISION 5
FOOD SANITATION CODE
SECTION:
10-5-1: Definitions
10-5-2: State Rules Adopted
10-5-3: License Requirement
10-5-4: Food Establishment Licenses And Fees
10-5-5: Inspections For Violations; Corrections
10-5-6: Examination Of Food, Equipment, Storage And Work Areas; Condemnation
10-5-7: License Suspension
10-5-8: License Revocation
10-5-9: Disease Control Provisions
10-5-10: Notice Provision
10-5-11: Hearing Provision
10-5-12: Penalties
10-5-13: Severability
10-5-14: Repeal And Date Of Effect
10-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
CATEGORY I FACILITY: Means a food establishment that presents a high relative
risk of causing food-borne illness, based on the large number of food handling
operations typically implicated in food-borne outbreaks and/or the type of
population served by the facility. Category I facilities include those where
the following operations occur: potentially hazardous foods are cooled, as part
of the food handling operation at the facility, potentially hazardous foods are
prepared hot or cold and held hot or cold for more than twelve (12) hours
before serving, potentially hazardous cooked and cooled foods must be reheated,
complex preparation of foods or extensive handling of raw ingredients with hand
contact for ready-to-eat foods occurs as part of the food handling operations
at the facility, vacuum packaging, other forms of reduced oxygen packaging, or
other special processes that require an HACCP plan, or immunocompromised
individuals, such as the elderly, young children under age four (4) and
pregnant women are served, in a facility in which these individuals compose the
majority of the consuming population.
CATEGORY II FACILITY: Means a food establishment that presents a medium
relative risk of causing food-borne illness, based upon few food handling
operations typically implicated in food-borne illness outbreaks. Category II
facilities include those where the following operations occur: hot or cold
foods are held at required temperatures for no more than twelve (12) hours and
are restricted to same-day services, foods are prepared from raw ingredients,
using only minimal assembly, and foods that require complex preparation
(whether canned, frozen or fresh prepared) are obtained from approved food-
processing plants, high-risk food service establishments or retail food stores.
CATEGORY III FACILITY: Means a food establishment that presents a low relative
risk of causing food-borne illness, based upon few or no food handling
operations typically implicated in food-borne illness outbreaks. Category III
facilities include those where the following operations occur: only potentially
hazardous foods commercially pre- packaged in an approved processing plant are
available or served at the facility, only limited preparation of non-
potentially hazardous foods and beverages, such as snack foods and carbonated
beverages, occurs at the facility, or only beverages (alcoholic and non-
alcoholic) are served at the facility.
COMMISSARY: Means a central, fixed non-mobile food establishment that meets the
requirements of the Food Code and provides the necessary support for the mobile
food establishment to operate in a safe and sanitary manner. It includes, but
is not limited to, storage and preparation of food, storage of single use
items, and cleaning supplies. A commissary may also serve as a servicing area
for the servicing of the mobile unit and cleaning of the food contact and non-
food contact surfaces.
CONTINUOUS VIOLATION: Means a violation that is observed during a routine
inspection, is documented, and persists on the next two (2) subsequent routine
inspections.
CORE ITEM: Means a provision in this Code that is not designated as a priority
item or priority foundation item. Core item includes an item that usually
relates to general sanitation, operational controls, sanitation standard
operating procedures (SSOPs), facilities or structures, equipment design, or
general maintenance. (Good retail practice.)
EMBARGO: Means an order issued by the Health Officer that acts as a temporary
isolation or quarantine of food that the Health Officer believes or has reason
to believe is in violation of this division.
FOLLOW-UP: Means a food safety assessment of a food establishment conducted by
the Health Officer to verify correction of a violation(s) cited in the previous
inspection.
FOOD: Means any raw, cooked, or processed edible substance, ice, beverage, or
ingredient used or intended for use or sale in whole or in part for human
consumption, or chewing gum.
FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS: Means an operation that: a) stores, prepares, packages,
serves, or vends food directly to the consumer, or otherwise provides food for
human consumption such as a restaurant, satellite or catered feeding location;
catering operation if the operation provides food directly to the consumer; b)
relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or indirectly through a
delivery service such as home delivery of grocery orders or restaurant takeout
orders, or delivery service that is provided by common carriers.
Food establishment includes: a) an element of the operation such as
transportation vehicle or a central preparation facility that supplies a
vending location or satellite feeding location unless the vending or feeding
operation is permitted by the local authority; and b) an operation that is
conducted in a mobile, stationary, temporary or permanent facility or location;
where consumption is on or off the premises; and regardless of whether there is
a charge for the food.
   Food establishment does not include: a) an establishment that offers only
prepackaged foods that are not time/temperature control for safety foods; b) a
produce stand that offers whole, uncut fresh fruits and vegetables.
GOVERNMENTAL SERVICE ENTITY: A governmental entity is that which is closely
affiliated, generally by government ownership or control, with State and local
governments and is a taxing body.
HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT PROGRAM (HACCP): Means a food safety
management system to identify, evaluate and control food safety hazards.
HOME KITCHEN DIRECT SALE: Means only non-time/temperature control for safety
baked goods can be sold or delivery from the home to the consumer. No off site
sales including, but not limited to farmer's markets, arts and craft fairs,
festivals are permitted.
MOBILE UNIT: Means a food establishment that is operated from a movable, motor-
driven, or propelled vehicle, a portable structure, or watercraft that can
change location. All mobile units shall at a minimum have food storage and
preparation area, mechanical hot and cold holding units, gas or electrical
cooking equipment, hand sink, 3-compartment sink, liquid-waste holding tank and
potable water tank, adequate storage for all food, single-use items and
cleaning supplies.
PERSON IN CHARGE: Means the individual present at a food establishment who is
responsible for the operation at the time of inspection.
PLAN REVIEW: Means an evaluation process conducted by the Health Officer to
determine whether minimum standards are met for the sanitary design, facility
layout, operational and product flow, menu processes and food handling
procedures, construction, operation and maintenance of a food establishment and
its premises.
PRIORITY FOUNDATION ITEM: Means a provision in this Code whose application
supports, facilitates or enables one or more priority items. Priority
foundation item includes an item that requires the purposeful incorporation of
specific actions, equipment or procedures by industry management to attain
control of risk factors that contribute to foodborne illness or injury such as
personnel training, infrastructure or necessary equipment, HACCP plans,
documentation or record keeping, and labeling; (foodborne illness risk factors
and public health interventions).
PRIORITY ITEM: Means a provision in this Code whose application contributes
directly to the elimination, prevention or reduction to an acceptable level,
hazards associated with foodborne illness or injury and there is no other
provision that more directly controls the hazard. Priority item includes items
with a quantifiable measure to show control of hazards such as cooking,
reheating, cooling, handwashing; (foodborne illness risk factors and public
health interventions).
RECURRING VIOLATION: Means a specific violation(s) that is observed during a
routine inspection, is documented on two (2) of the last three (3) routine
inspections, but need not be on consecutive routine inspections.
REPEAT VIOLATION: Means a violation noted on the previous inspection report
that is observed again on the next routine inspection on the same piece of
equipment, same area of the facility, or same practice.
RISK CONTROL PLAN: Means a concisely written management plan, developed by the
person in charge with input from the Health Officer, that describes a
management system for controlling specific identified and uncontrolled
foodborne illness risk factors. The plan delineates necessary records,
responsible personnel, risk factors that need to be controlled, and how those
factors will be controlled to ensure the risk factors do not occur again.
Example includes but is not limited to, if food is improperly cooled in the
establishment, a system of monitoring and record keeping outlined in a risk
control plan can ensure that new procedures are established to adequately cool
the food in the future.
TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT: Means a food establishment that operates for a
period of no more than fourteen (14) consecutive days in conjunction with a
single event or celebration. Temporary food establishments serving raw,
uncooked meat or seafood products shall be categorized as a level 1.
TIME AND TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD (TCS): Is formally potentially
hazardous food or PHF and shall be defined as set forth in the Food Code as
written and any subsequent amendments thereto.
VIOLATION ORDER: Means an order issued by the Health Officer that acts to
temporarily isolate, quarantine or restrict use of equipment, storage or work
area that the Health Officer believes or has reason to believe is in violation
of this division. (Ord. O-2019-0303, 3-19-2019, eff. 3-20-2019)
10-5-2: STATE RULES ADOPTED:
The inspection of food service establishments and retail food stores; the
issuance, suspension and revocation of license to operate food service
establishments and retail food stores; the prohibiting of the sale of unsound
or mislabeled food or drink; and the enforcement of this division shall be
carried out in accordance with the latest editions of the "Illinois Department
of Public Health; title 77: Public Health chapter I: Department of Public
Health subchapter m: Foods, Drugs and Cosmetics part 750 Food Service
Sanitation Code" along with all referenced State Statutes and title 77: Public
Health chapter I: Department of Public Health subchapter h: Local Health
Departments part 615 Local Health Protection Grant Code section 615.30 Food
Protection", which shall be on file in the Office of the County Clerk and at
the Ogle County Health Department (department). The Ogle County Health
Department hereby adopts section 3.6. Home Kitchen Operation of the 410
Illinois Compiled Statutes 625 Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act. (Ord.
O-2019-0303, 3-19-2019, eff. 3-20-2019)
10-5-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENT:
   A.   License Required: No person shall operate a food service establishment,
retail food store, mobile unit, temporary food event or prepare and/or serve
food for public consumption without a valid license or permit issued by the
Ogle County Health Department for said purposes, hereafter referred to as
permit or license. Only a person who complies with the requirements of this
division shall be entitled to receive or retain such a license. Licenses are
not transferable to any other owner or address. A valid license shall be posted
in every retail food store, food service establishment, or mobile unit both
permanent and temporary. Change of ownership, location and "doing business as"
name shall require issuance of a new license.
      1.   Application For License: Any person desiring to operate a food
service establishment shall make written application for a license on forms
provided by the department. Such application shall include the name and address
of each applicant, the location and type of the proposed food service
establishment, and the signature of each applicant.
         a.   By obtaining a food permit in Ogle County a person is assuming
liability, ensuring the food they are selling is safe for public consumption,
the environment is safe and free of health hazards and that they will comply
with the rest of Ogle County's Food Sanitation Ordinance and any other
provisions of this division.
         b.   All annual permit holders shall apply for a temporary food permit
for events held off licensed premises for temporary events. The application
must be submitted to the department seven (7) days prior to the event to avoid
late fees.
      2.   Inspection Of Facility: Prior to approval of an application for a
license, the Ogle County Health Department shall confirm the proposed food
service establishment is in compliance with:
         a.   Illinois State Plumbing Code.
         b.   Illinois State Electrical Code.
         c.   Ogle County Zoning Regulations.
         d.   Land Subdivision Regulations.
         e.   Illinois State Fire Code.
         f.   Local or State Building Code.
         g.   Illinois Water Well Construction Code.
         h.   Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Code.
      3.   Issuance: The department shall issue a license to the applicant if
its inspection reveals that the proposed food service establishment complies
with the requirements of this division. This license shall be prominently
displayed on the premises in the view to the public of the approved
establishment. Unless otherwise indicated, the license is valid for the period
December 1st through November 30th of each year.
      4.   Temporary Food Establishment: A temporary food establishment shall
comply with the rules and regulations set forth previously in section
10-5-2 of this division, as well as all sections of this division and all the
provisions of this division which are applicable to its operation. The
department may augment such requirements when needed to assure the service of
safe food, may prohibit the sale of certain time-temperature control for safety
food, and may modify specific requirements for physical facilities when no
imminent health hazard will result.
      5.   Mobile Units: A mobile unit shall comply with the rules and
regulations set forth previously in section
10-5-2 of this division, as well as, all sections of this division and all the
provisions of this division which are applicable to its operation. Mobile units
must submit plans for review and have pre-operational inspections in accordance
with section
10-5-5 of this division. All mobile units without an annual license must obtain
a temporary food permit. All mobile food establishments shall be required to
return to a commissary for supplies, cleaning and for all servicing operations.
      6.   Vending Machines: A vending machine that contains time/temperature
control for safety food must have an annual vending machine license
responsibility of the vendor. Vending machines shall comply with the rules and
regulations set forth previously in section
10-5-2 of this division, as well as all sections of this division and all the
provisions of this division which are applicable to its operation.
   B.   Exemption: The following entity shall be exempt from the provision of
this division:
      1.   Home kitchen operation.
         a.   Annual registration of home kitchen operations at the department
shall be required. All operators of home kitchens shall possess Certified Food
Protection Managers Certificate prior to registration.
         b.   For the purpose of this section, "home kitchen operation" means a
person who produces or packages non-time/temperature control for safety baked
goods, as allowed by paragraph B1b(7) of this section, in a kitchen of that
person's primary domestic residence for direct sale by the owner or a family
member. A home kitchen operation does not include a person who produces or
packages non-time/temperature control for safety baked goods for sale by a
religious, charitable, or nonprofit organization for fundraising purposes; the
production or packaging of non-time/temperature control for safety baked goods
for these purposes is exempt from the requirements of this Act. The following
conditions must be met in order to qualify as a home kitchen operation:
            (1)   Monthly gross sales do not exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
            (2)   The food is a non-time/temperature control for safety baked
good, as described in section 4 of this Act.
            (3)   A notice is provided to the purchaser that the product was
produced in a home kitchen.
            (4)   The food package is affixed with a label or other written
notice is provided to the purchaser that includes:
               (A)   The common or usual name of the food product; and
               (B)   Allergen labeling as specified in Federal labeling
requirements by the United States Food and Drug Administration.
            (5)   The food is sold directly to the consumer.
            (6)   The food is stored in the residence where it is produced or
packaged.
            (7)   Baked goods, such as, but not limited to, breads, cookies,
cakes, pies, and pastries are allowed. Only high- acid fruit pies that use the
following fruits are allowed: apple, apricot, grape, peach, plum, quince,
orange, nectarine, tangerine, blackberry, raspberry, blueberry, boysenberry,
cherry, cranberry, strawberry, red currants, or a combination of these fruits.
         c.   The Department of Public Health or the Health Department of a
unit of local government may inspect a home kitchen operation in the event of a
complaint or disease outbreak.
         d.   The requirements of this section apply only to a home kitchen
operation located in a municipality, township, or county where the local
governing body having the jurisdiction to enforce this Act or the rules adopted
under this Act has adopted an ordinance authorizing home kitchen operations.
(Ord. O-2019-0303, 3-19-2019, eff. 3-20-2019)
10-5-4: FOOD ESTABLISHMENT LICENSES AND FEES:
   A.   Annual Food Establishment License:
      1.   Submission And Review Of Plans And Specifications Required: Whenever
a food service establishment, retail food store or mobile unit is constructed
or remodeled and whenever an existing structure is converted to use as a food
service establishment, retail food establishment or mobile unit, properly
prepared plans and specifications for such construction, remodeling or
conversion shall be submitted to the department for review and approval before
construction, remodeling or conversion begins. A completed application will be
required for this plan review and must be submitted to the department with a
fee in accordance with the fee schedule set forth in division 1, article D of
this chapter. Failure to obtain approval of the plan review prior to
construction shall result in the fee being doubled.
      2.   Content Of Plans: The plans and specifications shall indicate the
proposed layout, arrangement, mechanical plans and construction materials of
work areas, and the type and model of proposed fixed equipment and facilities.
The department shall approve the plans and specifications if they meet the
requirements of this division. No food service establishment, retail food
establishment or mobile unit shall be constructed, remodeled, or converted
except in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the department.
      3.   Preoperational Inspection: Whenever plans and specifications are
required by paragraph A1 of this section to be submitted to the department, the
Health Officer shall inspect the food service establishment, retail food
establishment or mobile unit prior to the start of operations, to determine
compliance with the approved plans and specifications and with the requirements
of this division.
      4.   License Obtained: License to operate a food service establishment,
retail food store or mobile unit must be obtained from the department on or
before November 30 each year. Fees will not be pro-rated. Before any new food
service establishment may be established or put into operation, plans must be
submitted and a license obtained.
      5.   License Renewals: Licensees for food service establishments, retail
food stores and mobile units will be sent applications for renewal annually due
by November 30 each year. At renewal time, the application is due along with
any other fees or fines incurred during their previous permit year. If a
license holder is delinquent on any money due at the renewal deadline, the
department shall deny the renewal of the annual license until such a time as
the license holder pays in full. If renewal payment and any other fees are not
received by November 30, a late fee will be assessed as outlined in division 1,
article D of this chapter.
      6.   Obligation To Notify: It is the permit holder's responsibility to
notify the department of any changes to the renewal application including
change of ownership, location, menu change or procedures that deviate from the
original category of risk level.
      7.   License Fees: License to operate a food service establishment,
retail food store or mobile unit shall be in accordance with the fee schedule
set forth in division 1, article D of this chapter. License fees will not be
pro- rated. Any license fee that is late will have a late fee assessed as
outlined in division 1, article D of this chapter.
   B.   Temporary Permit:
      1.   Permit Fees: License to operate a temporary food establishment shall
be in accordance with the fee schedule set forth in division 1, article D of
this chapter.
      2.   Not For Profit: Not for profit shall be charged in accordance with
the fee schedule set forth in division 1, article D of this chapter. State of
Illinois certification for not for profit status must be current and verifiable
via the Illinois Secretary of State website.
         a.   Exempt from fee: Governmental service entities.
      3.   Late Fees: Temporary food license applications must be filed seven
(7) calendar days prior to the event. Otherwise, a late fee charge will be
levied in accordance with the fee schedule set forth in division 1, article D
of this chapter. Registered, not for profit organizations are not exempt from
this late fee. Government entities are not exempt from a late fee and will be
charged as set forth in division 1, article D of this chapter.
   C.   Fees Are Nonrefundable: All fees are nonrefundable. (Ord. O-2019-0303,
3-19-2019, eff. 3-20-2019)
10-5-5: INSPECTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS; CORRECTIONS:
   A.   Inspections Required: The inspection schedule for each food service
establishment shall be based on the relative risk category of foodborne illness
as determined by the department using the criteria in the Illinois Department
of Public Health "Rules and Regulations for Food Sanitation". Food service
establishment shall be rated as either category I, category II or category III.
Facilities shall be inspected at least as often as the following schedule:
      1.   Category I: Three (3) inspections per year, or two (2) inspections
if one of the following conditions is met:
         a.   A certified food protection manager is present at all times the
facility is in operation; or
         b.   The employees involved in food operations receive a hazard
analysis critical control points (HACCP) training exercise, in-service training
in another food service area, or attend an educational conference on food
safety or sanitation, approved by the department.
      2.   Category II: One inspection per year.
      3.   Category III: One inspection every two (2) years.
      4.   Additional inspections shall be performed as often as necessary for
the enforcement of this division.
   B.   Access To Inspectors: The Health Officer shall be permitted to enter
any food service establishment, retail food store, mobile unit, temporary food
event or any location preparing or serving food at any reasonable time for the
purpose of making inspections to determine compliance with this division.
"Reasonable time" for the purpose of this section shall mean at all times the
establishment is open to the public and/or any time food is being handled. The
Health Officer shall be permitted to examine the records of the establishment
to obtain information pertaining to food and supplies purchased, received or
used, or to persons employed. When the Health Officer is denied access to a
food service facility for inspection or investigation purposes, it shall be
considered a violation of this division. The Health Officer shall have the
authority to close any food service facility or suspend the permit of an
establishment that denies access for inspection or investigation. This closure
or suspension will be effective immediately. The food service facility shall
cease all operations until a thorough inspection has been completed and all
noted violations have been corrected or an administrative hearing has been
requested or conducted.
   C.   Record Keeping: All food establishments shall maintain refrigeration,
mechanical or manual ware washing, sanitation and cooling logs. Refrigeration
and sanitation logs shall be recorded twice per day. Cooling logs shall be
recorded for individual food items. Records of the past ninety (90) days must
be maintained and made available to the Health Officer upon request.
   D.   Inspection Reports: Inspection finding shall be recorded on an
inspection form that is substantially equivalent to the current or subsequent
Illinois State Department of Public Health Food Inspection Report. The
inspection remarks shall be written to reference by item number and shall state
the correction to be made. A copy (hard copy or electronic copy) of the
completed inspection report form shall be furnished to the person in charge of
the establishment. The findings of the inspection will be posted on the Health
Department's website.
      1.   Refusal to sign on the inspection report will not affect the permit
holder's obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the time frames specified in the report. Acknowledgement of receipt does
not indicate agreement with the inspection findings.
   E.   Correction Required: The completed inspection report form shall specify
a reasonable period of time for the correction of the violations found; and
correction of the violations shall be accomplished within the period specified.
The inspection report may state that failure to comply with any time limits for
corrections may result in cessation of food service operations or food sales.
      1.   Emergency Situations: If an imminent health hazard exists because of
an emergency such as a fire, flood, power outage, water outage (hot or cold),
contaminated water supply, sewage back up, vermin presence, misuse of poisonous
or toxic materials, onset of an apparent foodborne illness outbreak, unsanitary
occurrence or conditions, or other circumstances that could result in the
contamination of food, or that might prevent time/temperature control for
safety food from being held at required temperatures, the permit holder or
person in charge shall cease operations and contact the Health Officer. Upon
receiving notice of this occurrence, the Health Officer shall take actions as
it deems necessary to protect public health. If operations are ceased, the
establishment shall obtain approval from the Health Officer prior to reopening.
      2.   Priority And Priority Foundation Items: When a priority item(s) and/
or a priority foundation item(s) is documented as a violation during an
inspection such item(s) shall be corrected on-site, if possible, but not to
exceed a timeframe of ten (10) calendar days. If the 10th calendar day falls on
a weekend or State holiday, the first work day following shall be treated as
the 10th day. A follow up inspection shall be conducted to confirm correction
(s) has been adequately made within twenty (20) days of the violation. Certain
violations may be verified by submitting evidence deemed acceptable by the
Health Officer within the specified time frame. This follow-up and any
subsequent follow-ups will be associated with a fee(s) as outlined in division
1, article D of this chapter.
         a.   Repeat violation(s) of a priority and/or a priority foundation
item(s) shall be corrected at the time of inspection to include implementing a
risk control plan/standard operating procedure at the time of inspection, if
possible, but at no time to exceed a period of five (5) calendar days. If the
5th calendar day falls on a weekend or State holiday, the first work day
following shall be treated as the 5th work day. A follow up inspection shall be
conducted to confirm correction(s) has been adequately made within ten (10)
days of the violation. This follow-up and any subsequent follow-ups will be
associated with a fee(s) as outlined in division 1, article D of this chapter.
      3.   Core Items: When core item(s) is documented as a violation during an
inspection, such item(s) must be corrected at the time of inspection if
possible, or a time frame agreed upon by the Health Officer, but at least by
the time of the next routine inspection. The Health Officer may require the
completion of a violation compliance form to document and confirm corrections.
If the establishment has received a violation compliance form and it is not
sent back to the department by the date due as noted on the form, the
establishment may be subject to a follow up inspection to confirm correction
(s). This follow-up and any subsequent follow-ups will be associated with a fee
(s) as outlined in division 1, article D of this chapter.
         a.   Repeat violation(s) of a core item(s) shall be corrected at the
time of inspection to include implementing a risk control plan at the time of
inspection, if possible, but at no time to exceed a period of five (5) calendar
days. If the 5th calendar day falls on a weekend or State holiday, the first
work day following shall be treated as the 5th work day. A follow up inspection
shall be conducted to confirm correction(s) have been adequately made within
ten (10) days of the violation. Certain violations may be verified by
submitting evidence deemed acceptable by the Health Officer within the
specified time frame. This follow-up and any subsequent follow-ups will be
associated with a fee(s) as outlined in division 1, article D of this chapter.
      4.   Noncompliance Fee: Failure to comply with any notice regarding
violations which pose imminent health hazard or continuous, recurring and/or
repeat violation(s) issued within accordance of the provisions of this division
and/or enforcement policy may result in the issuance of a noncompliance fee, as
outlined in division 1, article D of this chapter, for each violation item and/
or immediate suspension of the permit.
      5.   Cease Operations: When a food service establishment, retail food
store, or mobile unit is cited for seven (7) or more priority and/or priority
foundation item(s) violations that are not correctable on site, they shall
cease operations immediately. The Ogle County health official has final
discretion on when operations are to be ceased. The establishment shall
initiate corrective action on all identified violations within forty eight (48)
hours. The department will conduct a re-inspection after this time period to
confirm that the corrective actions have been made.
      6.   License Suspension: In the case of temporary food establishments,
violations must be corrected within a reasonable period of time as determined
by the Health Officer. Failure to comply with such notice shall result in
immediate suspension of the license.
      7.   Home Kitchen And Cottage Food Operation, Bake Sale For A Charitable
Or Religious Organization:
         a.   Upon the outbreak of a disease that may be connected to any of
such sites, the Health Department shall have the authority to inspect such
sites involved. The Health Officer shall request consent to inspect such sites.
In the absence of consent, the Health Officer shall obtain an administrative
search warrant to inspect a kitchen of a private home, cottage food operation
or bake sale.
         b.   In the event of disease outbreak reasonably connected to a
kitchen in a private home or cottage food operation, the Health Officer shall
request the kitchen in a private home, or cottage food operation to cease food
sales to the public until the Health Officer has deemed the operations may
continue. In the absence of voluntary compliance, the Health Officer may seek a
court order for cessation of food preparation in a kitchen in a private home or
cottage food operation.
   F.   Hearing Provided: An opportunity for hearing on the inspection findings
or the time limitations or both will be provided according to the provisions in
division 1, article C of this chapter.
   G.   Resumption Of Operations, Re-Inspection: Whenever a food service
establishment, retail food store or mobile unit is required under the
provisions of this section to cease operations, it shall not resume operations
until it is shown upon re-inspection that conditions responsible for the order
to cease operations no longer exist. Opportunity for re- inspection shall be
offered within a reasonable time.
   H.   Inspection Results: Inspections results from routine inspections will
be made public on the Ogle County Health Department website. Follow-up
inspection(s) and complaint results will not be posted on the Health Department
website. (Ord. O-2019-0303, 3-19-2019, eff. 3-20-2019)
10-5-6: EXAMINATION OF FOOD, EQUIPMENT, STORAGE AND WORK AREAS; CONDEMNATION:
   A.   Embargo: Food may be examined or sampled by the Health Officer as often
as necessary for enforcement of this division. The department may, upon notice
to the owner or person in charge, place an embargo on any food which it
believes creates a potential hazard to health. The Health Officer shall tag,
label or otherwise identify any food subject to the embargo. Anyone who alters,
tampers, removes the embargo placard or food shall be subject to fines and/or
suspension of permit.
      1.   Condemnation Of Food: During an inspection of a food establishment,
the food shall be subject to immediate condemnation or destruction for the
following reasons, but is not limited to:
         a.   Prepared time/temperature control for safety foods held over
seven (7) days;
         b.   Cold food stored above forty one degrees Fahrenheit (41°F);
         c.   Hot food held below one hundred thirty five degrees Fahrenheit
(135°F);
         d.   Food that is contaminated as the result of a fire, flood, sewage
backup, power outage or similar events;
         e.   Food equipment used in the preparation of food products is found
to be in a state of disrepair, unsafe, unsanitary or unsuitable for the use of
preparation, display or service of food;
         f.   Food that is misbranded or adulterated; or
         g.   Food obtained from an unapproved source.
      2.   Restrictions On Food: No food subject to an embargo shall be used,
served or moved from the establishment. The department shall permit storage of
the food under conditions specified in the embargo, unless storage is not
possible without risk to the public health, in which case immediate destruction
shall be ordered and accomplished.
   B.   Violation Order: Any equipment or area of a food establishment that
does not meet the standards of the State Service Sanitation Code title 77 part
750 or this division shall be tagged with a violation order and not used until
properly cleaned and sanitized, repaired or replaced. Once a violation order
placard is placed, it may only be removed by the Health Officer. Anyone who
alters, tampers, removes the embargo placard or food shall be subject to fines
and/or suspension of permit.
   C.   Fines For Non-Compliance And Priority/Priority Foundation Violations:
The department may in the event of non-compliance or repeat priority and
priority foundation items levy fines to a food establishment starting at five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and up to one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) per violation in accordance with section
10-5-12 of this division. Fine will be communicated in a standardized written
format to the person in charge onsite. A copy will be given to the person in
charge or owner and a copy will be kept in the department in the corresponding
inspection file.
   D.   Hearing Provided: The embargo shall state that a request for hearing
may be filed according to the provisions set forth in division 1, article C of
this chapter and that if no hearing is requested, the food shall be destroyed.
If a request for hearing is received, the hearing shall be held in accordance
with the provisions set forth in division 1, article C of this chapter. On the
basis of evidence provided at that hearing, the embargo may be vacated or the
owner or person in charge of the food may be directed by written order to
denature or destroy such food or to bring it into compliance with the
provisions of this division. (Ord. O-2019-0303, 3-19-2019, eff. 3-20-2019)
10-5-7: LICENSE SUSPENSION:
   A.   Suspension Provided: License or permit for food service establishments,
retail food stores, mobile units or temporary food service establishments may
be suspended by the Health Officer upon notice to the license or permit holder
of same. Reasons for suspending the license or permit include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      1.   Failure to comply with the provisions of this division;
      2.   Failure to comply with the provisions of this division after
notification by the Health Officer;
      3.   Failure to comply with the provisions of this division within the
timeframe established by the Health Officer;
      4.   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of their
duties, including, but not limited to, failure to allow the Health Officer
access to the license holder's building or records;
      5.   Failure to update the original and/or renewal application as
required by this division;
      6.   Knowingly furnishing false information to the Health Officer or any
official document;
      7.   Failure to pay any fines or fees owed to the department; or
      8.   Violation of Smoke Free Illinois Act 1 . Permits may be suspended
temporarily by the Health Officer for failure of the permit holder to comply
with notices or citations issued for violation of the Smoke Free Illinois Act.
         a.   Whenever a permit holder or operator has received a Smoke Free
Illinois Citation and failed to request a hearing within ten (10) calendar
days, or pay the fine within twenty eight (28) calendar days, or failed to obey
the findings and final order of an Illinois Department of Public Health
Administrative Law Judge, the permit holder or operator shall be notified in
writing that the permit is, upon service of the notice, immediately suspended.
   B.   Suspension Effective: Suspension is effective upon service of the
notice required by paragraph C of this section. When a license or permit is
suspended, food service operations or food sale shall immediately cease.
Whenever a license or permit is suspended, the holder of the license shall be
afforded an opportunity for a hearing with the Health Officer within twenty
(20) days of receipt of a request for hearing.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: Whenever a license or permit is suspended, the
holder of the license or the person in charge shall be notified in writing that
the license is, upon service of the notice, immediately suspended and that an
opportunity for hearing with the Health Officer, according to the provisions
set forth in division 1, article C of this chapter, will be provided, if a
written request for hearing is filed with the department by the holder of the
license within ten (10) days. The Health Officer may end the suspension at any
time if reasons for suspension no longer exist. (Ord. O-2019-0303, 3-19-2019,
eff. 3-20-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 419 ILCS 82.
10-5-8: LICENSE REVOCATION:
   A.   Revocation Provided: Licenses or permits for food service
establishments, retail food stores, mobile units and temporary food
establishments may be revoked by the Health Officer upon notice to the license
holder of same. Reasons for revocation of the license or permit include, but
not limited to, the following:
      1.   Serious violation of the provisions of this division;
      2.   Repeated failure to comply with the provisions of this division;
      3.   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of their
duties, including, but not limited to, failure to allow the Health Officer
access to the license holder's building or records;
      4.   Failure to update the original and/or renewal application as
required by this division;
      5.   Knowingly furnishing false information to the Health Officer or any
official document;
      6.   Failure to apply for re-inspection within thirty (30) days of the
end of a suspension period imposed for violations of the provisions of this
division; or
      7.   When continuous operation of the business has lapsed for a period of
more than ninety (90) days without notification to the department.
   B.   Notice And Hearing Provided: Prior to revocation, the department shall
notify, in writing, the holder of the license or the person in charge, of the
specific reason(s) for which the license or permit is to be revoked and that
the license shall be revoked at the end of the ten (10) days following service
of such notice unless a written request for hearing is filed with the
department by the holder of the license or permit within such ten (10) day
period. If no request for hearing is filed within the ten (10) day period, the
revocation of the license becomes final.
   C.   Application After Revocation: Whenever a revocation of a license has
become final, the holder of the revoked license may make written application to
the department. To make written application to the department, an application
for license, plan review and all applicable fees must be submitted. It is up to
the discretion of the department to approve re-instatement of licensure. All
fees are non- refundable.
   D.   Hearing: The licensee shall be provided with the opportunity to a
hearing in accordance with the provisions set forth in division 1, article C of
this chapter. (Ord. O-2019-0303, 3-19-2019, eff. 3-20-2019)
10-5-9: DISEASE CONTROL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Employee Restriction: The person in charge of a food service
establishment, retail food store or mobile unit shall restrict or exclude any
employee from work as per section 750.500 General - Employee Health.
      1.   Whenever the department has reasonable cause to suspect possible
disease transmission by an employee of a food service establishment or retail
food store, it may secure a morbidity history of the suspected employee or make
any other investigation as indicated and shall take appropriate action. The
department may require any or all of the following measures:
         a.   The immediate exclusion of the employee from employment in food
service establishments, retail food stores or mobile units;
         b.   The immediate closing of the food service establishment, retail
food store or mobile units concerned until, in the opinion of the department,
no further danger of disease outbreak exists;
         c.   Restriction of the employee's services to some area of the
establishment where there would be no danger of transmitting disease;
         d.   Adequate medical and laboratory examination of the employee and
of other employees and their body discharges. The Ogle County Health Officer
may order that an employee is held out of work until they have been cleared by
a physician in accordance to section 690 Control of Communicable Diseases Code
and Illinois Compiled Statutes 2305/2 section 2, Powers. Physician's clearance
should be in writing demonstrating that adequate testing was performed and the
employee is not contagious with a communicable disease infection. (Ord. O-2019-
0303, 3-19-2019, eff. 3-20-2019)
10-5-10: NOTICE PROVISION:
   A.   A notice provided for in this division is properly served when it is
delivered to the holder of the license, or the person in charge, or when it is
sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or e-mailed
with read receipt requested to the last known address of the holder of the
license. A copy of the notice shall be filed in records of the department.
(Ord. O-2019-0303, 3-19-2019, eff. 3-20-2019)
10-5-11: HEARING PROVISION:
   A.   The hearings provided for in this division shall be conducted in
accordance with the provisions set forth in division 1, article C of this
chapter. (Ord. O-2019-0303, 3-19-2019, eff. 3-20-2019)
10-5-12: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this division and is
convicted thereof shall be punished by fines ranging from five hundred dollars
to one thousand five hundred dollars ($500.00 - $1,500.00). In addition
thereto, such persons may be enjoined from continuing such violations. Each day
upon which such a violation occurs constitutes a separate violation. (Ord. O-
2019-0303, 3-19-2019, eff. 3-20-2019)
10-5-13: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   If any provision of this division is declared unconstitutional or
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the decision shall not affect the
validity of the remainder of this division. (Ord. O-2019-0303, 3-19-2019, eff.
3-20-2019)
10-5-14: REPEAL AND DATE OF EFFECT:
   A.   This division shall be in full force and effect from and after March
20, 2019. At that time, all resolutions and parts of resolutions in conflict
with this division are hereby repealed. (Ord. O-2019-0303, 3-19-2019, eff. 3-
20-2019)
CHAPTER 6
RECREATIONAL AREA ENVIRONMENT
(Rep. by Ord., 11-16-1999)
DIVISION 7
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
10-7-1: Possession Of Cannabis
10-7-1-1: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
10-7-2: Assault
10-7-3: Battery
10-7-4: Disorderly Conduct
10-7-5: Criminal Damage To Property
10-7-6: Civil Trespass To Land
10-7-7: Theft
10-7-8: Retail Theft
10-7-9: Liquor Sales To Persons Under Twenty One
10-7-10: Purchase Or Acceptance Of Gift Of Liquor By Persons Under Twenty One
10-7-11: Outdoor Movies, Viewing Restrictions
10-7-12: Imposition Of Supervision
10-7-13: Smoking Restricted
10-7-1: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   Definitions: All terms and phrases used herein shall have the same
meaning as ascribed to them in the cannabis control act 1 ; except the term
"person" is limited to natural persons who have attained the age of eighteen
(18) years or more.
   B.   Offense Of Possession Of Cannabis: A person commits the offense of
possession of cannabis within the county of Ogle by knowingly possessing ten
grams (10 g) or less of any substance containing cannabis unless permitted or
authorized to do so pursuant to relevant state law.
   C.   Violations, Penalties:
      1.   Any person violating paragraph B of this section shall be subject to
a mandatory fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). In addition to any fine herein all court
costs authorized by ordinance or statute for ordinance violations from time to
time shall be imposed. These costs include, but are not limited to, circuit
clerk automation, state attorney automation, document storage, clerk fee, court
fee, judicial security, youth diversion, drug court, state attorney fee and e-
citation fee.
      2.   Any motor vehicle which is used in any manner to facilitate the
possession of cannabis in violation of paragraph B of this section shall be
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to the vehicle impound ordinance of
Ogle County (section
12-4-1 et seq., of this code). (Ord. O-2016-0802, 8-16-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
10-7-1-1: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions: "Drug paraphernalia" means all items, equipment, products
and materials of any kind which may be used unlawfully in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling,
or otherwise introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance
as defined by relevant Illinois state laws. It includes, but is not limited to,
pipes, bongs, rolling papers and any other item converted for the uses set
forth above.
   B.   Offense Of Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia: A person commits the
offense of possession of drug paraphernalia with the county of Ogle by
knowingly possessing an item of drug paraphernalia unless permitted or
authorized to do so pursuant to relevant Illinois state law.
   C.   Violation, Penalties:
      1.   Any person violating paragraph B of this section shall be subject to
a mandatory fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). In addition to any fine herein all court
costs authorized by ordinance or statute for ordinance violations from time to
time shall be imposed. These costs include, but are not limited to, circuit
clerk automation, state attorney automation, document storage, clerk fee, court
fee, judicial security, youth diversion, drug court, state attorney fee and e-
citation fee.
      2.   Any motor vehicle which is used in any manner to facilitate the
possession of drug paraphernalia in violation of paragraph B of this section
shall be subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to the vehicle impound
ordinance of Ogle County (section
12-4-1 et seq., of this code). (Ord. O-2016-0802, 8-16-2016)
10-7-2: ASSAULT:
A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he engages in
conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery
or attempts to commit a battery on another. The penalty for a violation of this
section is a fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (1982 Code)
10-7-3: BATTERY:
A person commits battery if he intentionally or knowingly without legal
justification and by any means: a) causes bodily harm to an individual, or b)
makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with any individual.
The penalty for a violation of this section is a fine of not less than one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(1982 Code)
10-7-4: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:
   A.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another
and to provoke a breach of the peace; or
   B.   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues; or
   C.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed; or
   D.   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or other
opening in it.
The penalty for a violation of this section is a fine of not less than one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(1982 Code)
10-7-5: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
A person commits criminal damage to property when he:
   A.   Knowingly damages any property of another without his consent; or
   B.   Recklessly by means of fire or explosives, damages property of another;
or
   C.   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another without his consent; or
   D.   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another, without
his consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby
intends to interfere with the use by another of the land or building; or
   E.   Knowingly damages the property of another without his consent, by
defacing, deforming or otherwise damaging such property by the use of paint or
any other similar substance.
The penalty for a violation of this section is a fine of not less than one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(1982 Code)
10-7-6: CIVIL TRESPASS TO LAND:
Any person who, without authority, enters upon the land or any part thereof of
another, knowing or having reason to know that such unauthorized entry may
alarm or disturb another commits civil trespass to land. The penalty for a
violation of this section is a fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (1982 Code)
10-7-7: THEFT:
A person commits theft when he knowingly:
   A.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner; or
   B.   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
   C.   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
   D.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him to
believe that the property was stolen; and
      1.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
      2.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner as
to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
      3.   Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
The penalty for a violation of this section is a fine of not less than one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(1982 Code)
10-7-8: RETAIL THEFT:
   A.   Definitions For Retail Theft: For the purpose of this section, the
words and phrases defined herein have the meanings ascribed to them in these
definitions unless a contrary meaning is clear from the context.
   CONCEAL: To "conceal" merchandise means that, although there may be some
notice of its presence, that merchandise is not visible through ordinary
observation.
   FULL RETAIL VALUE: The merchant's stated or advertised price of the
merchandise.
   MERCHANDISE: Any item of tangible personal property.
   MERCHANT: An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or any
agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, director, franchisee or
independent contractor of such owner or operator.
   MINOR: A person who is less than nineteen (19) years of age, is
unemancipated and resides with his parents or legal guardian.
   PEACE OFFICER: Any law enforcement officer or security guard.
   PERSON: Any natural person or individual.
   PREMISES OF A RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Includes, but is not limited
to, the retail mercantile establishment; any common use areas in shopping
centers and all parking areas set aside by a merchant or on behalf of a
merchant for the parking of vehicles for the convenience of the patrons of such
retail mercantile establishment.
   RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where merchandise is displayed,
held, stored or offered for sale to the public.
   SHOPPING CART: Those push carts of the type or types which are commonly
provided by grocery stores, drugstores or other retail mercantile
establishments for the use of the public in transporting commodities in stores
and markets and, incidentally, from the stores to a place outside the stores.
   UNDER RING: To cause the cash register or other sales recording device to
reflect less than the full retail value of the merchandise.
   B.   Offense Of Retail Theft: A person commits the offense of retail theft
when he knowingly:
      1.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transfers, any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale
in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise; or
      2.   Alters, transfers or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia
of value or any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale, in a
retail mercantile establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise
personally or in consort with another at less than the full retail value with
the intention of depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such
merchandise; or
      3.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale, in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      4.   Under rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full
retail value of the merchandise; or
      5.   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart.
   C.   Penalty: The penalty for a violation of this section is a fine of not
less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (1982 Code)
10-7-9: LIQUOR SALES TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative agent or
employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years, or to any intoxicated person or
to any person known by him to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane,
mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No person,
after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or
deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of twenty one
(21) years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any licensee, or
his agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic beverages to any
person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of identity and of
the fact that he is over the age of twenty one (21) years.
Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is a document
issued by a federal, state, county or municipal government, or subdivision or
agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's
license, a registration certificate issued under the federal selective service
act, or an identification card issued to a member of the armed forces. Proof
that the defendant-licensee, or his employee or agent, demanded, was shown and
reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any transaction, forbidden by
this section is competent evidence and may be considered in any criminal
prosecution therefor or to any proceedings for the suspension or revocation of
any license based thereon.
Any person who sells, gives or furnishes to any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years any false or fraudulent written, printed, or photostatic
evidence of the age and identity of such person, or who sells, gives or
furnishes to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years evidence of age
and identification of any other person commits a violation of this section.
Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who presents or offers to any
licensee, his agent or employee, any written, printed or photostatic evidence
of age and identity which is false, fraudulent, or not actually his own for the
purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase or otherwise procuring
or attempting to procure, the serving of any alcoholic beverage, or who has in
his possession any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence
of age and identity commits a violation of this section.
Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who has any alcoholic
beverage in his possession on any street or highway or in any public place or
in any place open to the public commits a violation of this section. This
section does not apply to possession by a person under the age of twenty one
(21) years making a delivery of an alcoholic beverage in pursuance of the order
of his parent or in pursuance of his employment.
Any violation of any provision of this section is punishable by a fine of not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord., 7-13-1982)
10-7-10: PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFT OF LIQUOR BY PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase, or accept a gift of such
alcoholic liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his possession.
If a licensee or his agents or employees believes or has reason to believe that
a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the non-age
of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale or delivery,
demand presentation of some form of positive identification, containing proof
of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his official duties.
No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification card; use the
identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged identification
card; or obtain an identification card by means of false information. No person
shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of alcoholic liquor in
violation of this section. The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person
under twenty one (21) years of age is forbidden. A violation of any provision
of this section is punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
The possession and dispensing, or consumption by a minor of alcoholic liquor in
the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the consumption by a
minor under the direct supervision by that minor's parent or court appointed
guardian at said parent's or guardian's home is not prohibited by this section.
(Ord., 7-13-1982)
10-7-11: OUTDOOR MOVIES, VIEWING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
   OGLE COUNTY: Shall mean and include all of that territory within the
geographical limits of the county of Ogle, state of Illinois, which is not
within the corporate limits of any city, town or village.
   PERSON OR PERSONS: Shall mean and include individuals, firms, partnerships
or corporations.
   B.   Theater Owners, Requirements: Every person operating an outdoor movie
theater shall:
      1.   Restrict the exhibiting of any motion picture or film presentation
viewable from any private residence which contains any scene or scenes
depicting any of the following sexually explicit nudity:
         Erect male genitalia
         Male ejaculation
         Masturbation
         Oral copulation
         Sexual intercourse
         Touching, caressing or fondling:
         Of bare female breast
         Of bare buttocks
         Of bare anus
         Of bare genitals
      2.   Restrict the exhibiting of any motion picture or film presentation
viewable from any public street or walkway which contains any scene or scenes
depicting any of the following sexually explicit nudity:
         Erect male genitalia
         Male ejaculation
         Masturbation
         Oral copulation
         Sexual intercourse
   C.   Penalty: A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be
punishable as a petty offense with a fine not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). A violation of the above
provisions shall be deemed a separate offense each day such prohibited activity
occurs. (Res., 5-11-1982)
10-7-12: IMPOSITION OF SUPERVISION:
Any person who violates any of the sections under this division may be subject
to an imposition of supervision, a fine, or both, as requested by the state's
attorney and the probation department.
The court may, in addition to other reasonable conditions relating to the
nature of the offense or the rehabilitation of the defendant as determined for
each defendant in the proper discretion of the court, apply the following
conditions if supervision is imposed:
   A.   The court shall order a specific period of time of not more than one
year, for each supervision and further proceedings or judgment will be deferred
until the conclusion of that period.
   B.   The court may require the defendant to meet any or all of the following
conditions of supervision as it seems fit:
      1.   Report to and participate with the court or other person or social
service agency;
      2.   Pay a fine and costs;
      3.   Work or pursue a course of study or vocational training;
      4.   Undergo medical, psychological, or psychiatric treatment; or
treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism;
      5.   Attend or reside in a facility established for the instruction or
residence of defendants on probation;
      6.   Refrain from possessing a firearm or other dangerous weapon;
      7.   Support his dependents;
      8.   If a minor (in addition to any other conditions):
         a.   Reside with his parents or in a foster home;
         b.   Attend school;
         c.   Attend a nonresidential program for youth;
         d.   Contribute to his own support at home or in a foster home; and
      9.   Make restitution or reparation in an amount not to exceed actual
loss or damage to property and pecuniary loss. The court shall determine the
amount and conditions of payment;
      10.   Perform some reasonable public service work;
      11.   Comply with any terms or conditions or an order of protection
issued to a victim by the court.
   C.   If, at the conclusion of the period of supervision, the court
determines that supervision has successfully been completed, the court shall
discharge the defendant and enter a judgment dismissing the charges. The court
shall defer entering any judgment on the charges until the conclusion of the
supervision.
   D.   No person assigned to a public service employment program shall be
considered an employee for any purpose, nor shall the county board be obligated
to provide any compensation to such person.
   E.   Neither the state, any local unit of government, nor any official or
employee thereof acting in the course of his official duties shall be liable
for any tortious acts of any person placed on supervision who is given any
public service work as a condition of supervision, except for wilful misconduct
or gross negligence of the part of such governmental unit, official, or
employee. (Ord., 1-14-1985)
10-7-13: SMOKING RESTRICTED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the words and phrases
defined herein have the meanings ascribed to them in these definitions unless a
contrary meaning is clear from the context.
      ADMINISTRATOR: Any individual or his designated agent who by virtue of
his office, position, authority, or duties has legal or administrative
responsibility for the use or operation of public county property.
      DESIGNATED SMOKING AREA: Any area set aside specifically as a smoking
area where smoking shall be permitted.
      PUBLIC COUNTY PROPERTY: Any enclosed indoor area located upon county
property and maintained by the county that is used by the public or serves as a
place of work, but excluding private, enclosed offices occupied exclusively by
smokers even though such offices may be visited by nonsmokers.
      SMOKE OR SMOKING: The act of inhaling the smoke from or possessing a
lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or any other form of tobacco or similar
substance used for smoking.
   B.   Smoking On Public County Property: No person shall smoke on a public
county property except in that portion of public county property which may be
established as a designated smoking area and posted as such. Notwithstanding
the above, smoking is permitted on public county property during such times it
is not open to public use.
   C.   Designated Smoking Area: The administrator having control over any
public county property shall comply with this section and may establish a
designated smoking area on the premises where smoking shall be permitted unless
otherwise prohibited by law. When establishing such a designated smoking area,
the administrator shall utilize existing physical barriers, ventilation
systems, and other physical elements of the premises to minimize the intrusion
of smoke into areas where smoking is not permitted. The administrator shall
post in conspicuous parts of such premises, in letters of sufficient size and
boldness to be easily read, signs identifying the area or areas where smoking
is permitted or prohibited.
   D.   Administrator Efforts To Prevent Smoking: An administrator having
control over public county property shall make reasonable efforts to prevent
smoking in areas other than designated smoking areas posted as such, including
asking persons to refrain from smoking, contacting a law enforcement officer,
or taking other appropriate action.
   E.   Penalty: Any person who violates paragraph B of this section is guilty
of a petty offense and shall be subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars
($10.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per violation. (Res., 8-
20-1985)
DIVISION 8
RABIES CONTROL 1
(Rep. by Ord., 12-22-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 5, division 8 of this code.
DIVISION 9
POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY SITING
SECTION:
10-9-1: Definitions
10-9-2: County Approval Of Pollution Control Facilities
10-9-3: Pollution Control Facility Siting Committee And Committee Chairman
10-9-4: Procedure For Filing An Application For Approval Of A Pollution Control
Facility
10-9-5: Procedure For Filing Written Comments To An Application For Site
Location Approval For A PCF
10-9-6: Hearings On Applications
10-9-7: Decisions
10-9-8: Rules And Procedures For Committee
10-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
ACT: The Illinois environmental protection act 1 , as amended from time to
time.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm or partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind proposing to obtain site location approval and IEPA
permits for a new pollution control facility in unincorporated Ogle County, and
includes the fee owner of such site, the proposed operator, and any other party
with an interest in the site, such as a lessee, contract purchaser or land
trust beneficiary.
ARTICLES OR ARTICLES OF RULES AND PROCEDURES 2 : The "articles of rules and
procedures - pollution control facility siting committee - Ogle County,
Illinois", established by the Ogle County pollution control facility siting
committee pursuant to section
10-9-8, "Rules And Procedures For Committee", of this division.
BOARD: The Illinois pollution control board.
COMMITTEE: The pollution control facility siting committee.
COUNTY: Ogle County, Illinois.
COUNTY BOARD: The Ogle County board.
HEW COMMITTEE: The health, education and welfare/solid waste committee of the
county board.
HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL SITE: A site at which hazardous waste is disposed.
"Hazardous waste" is waste as defined in the "act".
IEPA: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
PCF: A pollution control facility as defined in the act. "PCF" includes a new
pollution control facility as defined by the act.
All other terms used in this division and defined in the act shall have the
same definitions and meanings as found in said act. (Ord., 1-19-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
  2. See section
2 10-9-8 of this division, exhibit A for "articles of rules and procedures,
  pollution control facility siting committee".
10-9-2: COUNTY APPROVAL OF POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES:
No site location approval for the development or construction of a new PCF in
Ogle County may be granted by the county board unless an application is filed
for approval of such site and is submitted for consideration to said county
board. (Ord., 1-19-1999)
10-9-3: POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY SITING COMMITTEE AND COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN:
   A.   A PCF committee shall be established by the county board and shall
consist of eight (8) members of the county board, one of whom shall be the
chairman of the HEW committee. The members shall be nominated by the county
board chairman and approved by a majority vote of the county board.
   B.   The chairman of the committee shall be nominated by the chairman of the
county board and be approved by a majority vote of the county board. The
chairman of the committee shall be the eighth member of the committee. In the
event of the chairman's absence, the committee, by a majority vote of the
members present, shall designate one of its members acting chairman. The
chairman of the committee shall vote only in the event that there is a tie in
the vote of the committee.
   C.   The term of a committee member, which would otherwise expire subsequent
to the filing of an application for site location approval, shall be
automatically extended until final action on the application is taken by the
county board except where that committee member becomes legally ineligible to
serve on the county board.
   D.   All meetings and hearings of the committee shall be at the call of the
committee chairman, or in his or her absence, the acting chairman, at such
times as may be required. However, in the absence of any committee members at a
public hearing, the hearing officer may schedule continued hearings without
further notice.
   E.   The committee shall elect by a majority vote a hearing officer to serve
during any public hearing concerning an application for site location approval.
In selecting a hearing officer, the committee may take into consideration the
recommendation of such municipalities as are located in the vicinity of the
site. The hearing officer shall serve at the pleasure of the committee.
Compensation for the services of the hearing officer shall be agreed upon
between the hearing officer and the county before a hearing. The duties of the
hearing officer shall be provided for herein and in the articles. (Ord., 1-19-
1999)
10-9-4: PROCEDURE FOR FILING AN APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF A POLLUTION CONTROL
FACILITY:
   A.   1. In order to request siting approval for a new PCF in Ogle County, an
applicant must file an application with the county clerk, with a minimum of
twenty five (25) copies of the application and the substance of the applicant's
proposal showing sufficient details describing the proposed facility to
demonstrate compliance with the act and board regulations, including all site
plans, engineering including calculations, exhibits and maps, and all
documents, if any, to be submitted to the IEPA as of the date of filing the
application. At a minimum, the application shall comply with the articles of
rules and procedures. The form of said application may be obtained from the
office of the county solid waste director or from the Ogle County clerk.
      2.   In addition to the foregoing, the applicant shall deposit with the
county board at the time of filing the application for site approval of a new
PCF a filing fee deposit of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00), except
that a filing fee deposit of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) is
required if said proposed facility is designed as a hazardous waste disposal
site or if the disposal or volume reduction of any waste will be by
incineration or burning. If the applicant elects to file an amended application
for site location approval for any PCF in accordance with this division, such
filing shall be accompanied by payment of a supplemental fee of fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00).
      The applicable filing fee is intended to defray the reasonable and
necessary costs of processing the application, including, but not limited to:
costs of site inspection, clerical expenses, copying costs, space rental,
hearing officer compensation, court reporter expenses, transcription costs,
public notice expenses, staff review time, committee per diems, if any, state's
attorneys and county consultants (such as qualified professional engineers,
planners, appraisers, environmental counsel, etc.) (including tests, exhibits,
and testimony, if any, provided by said consultants), and other relevant costs
incident to the consideration of an application, the costs incident to
preparing the record for appeal, and the cost of representing the county on
appeal in case of an appeal of a county board decision (the "county costs"). If
at any time the funds deposited by the applicant are reduced below fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00), the applicant shall deposit an additional fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
      If there are funds remaining in the filing fee deposit after payment of
the county costs, such amount shall be refunded to the applicant upon the final
resolution of the application process (including appeals to the Illinois
pollution control board, appellate court, Illinois supreme court, federal
courts, and administrative review in the courts, if any). Should the county
incur any additional costs in excess of the applicable filing fee deposit, the
applicant shall bear any and all such additional costs and shall promptly pay
over such additional amount to the county upon request or demand.
      3.   The application must be complete, with answers provided for each
question on the application form. The application must contain consecutively
numbered pages and it must be accompanied by all site plans, exhibits, maps and
documents required by this division and by the articles of rules and
procedures. The date that the applicant files a complete application in proper
form, together with the applicable filing fee deposit, with the county clerk
shall be considered the official filing date for all time limit purposes. The
application is not effective unless the application is in strict compliance
with this division, the articles of rules and procedures and with the act. If
upon review of the application within fourteen (14) days of its submittal it is
determined by the county to be incomplete and not in strict conformance with
the aforesaid, the application is deemed not filed and the filing fee (less
county costs and expenses) shall be returned to the applicant. At any time
prior to completion by the applicant of the presentation of the applicant's
factual evidence and an opportunity for cross questioning by the county board,
county representatives and any participants, the applicant may file not more
than one amended application upon payment of additional fees pursuant to
section 39.2(k) of the act and paragraph A2 of this section. Provided, however,
that the time limitation for final action set forth in section 39.2(e) of the
act and paragraph 10-9-7B of this division shall be extended for an additional
period of ninety (90) days.
   B.   1. Upon receipt of a proper and complete application, and payment of
the applicable filing fee deposit, the county clerk shall date stamp all the
copies and immediately deliver one copy to the chairman of the county board,
one copy to the chairman of the HEW committee, one copy to the Ogle County
solid waste director, one copy to each municipality located within one and one-
half (11/2) miles of the proposed facility, and one copy to the chairman of the
committee.
      2.   In order to develop a record sufficient to form the basis of an
appeal of the county board's decision, the Ogle County solid waste director and
the Ogle County state's attorney's office may retain consultants on behalf of
the county. The consultants and the county agencies shall then commence a study
of the application. The applicant shall cooperate fully with the consultants
and the technical staff of the county in their review of the application,
including providing access to the site for study or testing, including, but not
limited to, geophysical testing.
   C.   A copy of the application and all related documents or other materials
on file with the county board shall be made available for public inspection in
the office of the county clerk. Members of the public shall be allowed to
obtain a copy of said application or any part thereof upon payment of the
actual cost of reproduction as outlined in the Illinois freedom of information
act 1 .
   D.   It is the applicant's duty to comply with all notice requirements set
forth in the act. The applicant shall:
      1.   No later than fourteen (14) days prior to filing an application for
site location approval with the county clerk, cause written notice of such
application to be served either in person or by registered mail, return receipt
requested, on the owners of all property within the subject area not solely
owned by the applicant, and on the owners of all property within two hundred
fifty feet (250') in each direction of the lot line of the subject property,
said owners being such persons or entities which appear from the authentic tax
records of the county; provided that the number of all feet occupied by public
roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in computing the
two hundred fifty foot (250') requirement; provided further, that in no event
shall this requirement exceed four hundred feet (400'), including public
streets, alleys and other public ways.
      2.   The applicant shall serve such notice upon each member of the
general assembly from the legislative district in which the proposed facility
is to be located, and this notice shall also be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in Ogle County.
      3.   The applicant shall state in such notice the name and address of the
applicant, the location of the proposed site, the nature and size of the
development, the nature of the activity proposed, the probable life of the
proposed activity, the date when the request for site approval will be
submitted to the county clerk, a description of the right of persons to comment
on such request as hereafter provided, and any other information as may be
required by the articles of rules and procedures and the act.
      4.   The applicant shall include in the application proof of compliance
with all prefiling notice requirements. (Ord., 1-19-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
10-9-5: PROCEDURE FOR FILING WRITTEN COMMENTS TO AN APPLICATION FOR SITE
LOCATION APPROVAL FOR A PCF:
   A.   Any person may file written comments with the county clerk concerning
the appropriateness of the proposed site for its intended purpose. The county
board shall consider any comment received or postmarked from the date of
acceptance of the application through and until thirty (30) days after the date
of the last public hearing in making its final determination. Said written
comments shall be mailed or delivered to the Ogle County clerk, Ogle County
Courthouse, Oregon, IL 61061. Said written comments shall clearly designate
reference to the PCF application to which they refer to ensure their
consideration by the county board. Upon receipt, the county clerk shall date
stamp the comments and refer them to the county board.
   B.   The above mentioned written comments shall become part of the record of
the proceedings. (Ord., 1-19-1999)
10-9-6: HEARINGS ON APPLICATIONS:
   A.   At least one public hearing shall be held by the committee no sooner
than ninety (90) days but no later than one hundred twenty (120) days from and
after the receipt of the application for PCF site location approval.
   B.   The applicant shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in Ogle County a notice of such public hearing not later than
fourteen (14) days prior to said hearing.
   The applicant shall also serve written notice of such hearing by certified
mail, return receipt requested, on all members of the Illinois general assembly
from the district in which the proposed site is located, to the governing
authority of every municipality contiguous to the proposed site or contiguous
to the municipality in which the proposed site is to be located, and to the
IEPA. The applicant shall file with the county clerk copies of each notice with
proof of service of such notice prior to the commencement of said public
hearing.
   C.   The chairman of the committee shall notify the applicant in writing of
the date and location of the public hearing before the committee at least
twenty one (21) days prior to such hearing.
   D.   Members or representatives of the governing authority of any
municipality contiguous to the proposed site may appear at and participate in
the public hearings.
   E.   The public hearing shall develop a record sufficient to form the basis
of any appeal. During the course of the public hearing before the committee,
the committee shall receive testimony from the applicant and witnesses whom the
applicant may call in support of the application, any county witnesses, any
objectors, and any other witnesses having relevant information, and shall
recommend approval only if the proposed facility meets the following criteria
(or such amended criteria as may be set forth from time to time in the act):
      1.   The facility is necessary to accommodate the waste needs of the area
that it is intended to serve; and
      2.   The facility is so designed, located, and proposed to be operated
that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected; and
      3.   The facility is located so as to minimize incompatibility with the
character of the surrounding area and to minimize the effect on the value of
the surrounding property; and
      4.   a. For a facility other than a sanitary landfill or waste disposal
site, the facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-year floodplain,
or that the site is floodproofed;
         b.   For a facility that is a sanitary landfill or waste disposal
site, the facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-year floodplain,
or if the facility is a facility described in subsection (b) of section 22.19a
of the Illinois environmental protection act 1 , the site is floodproofed; and
      5.   The plan of operations for the facility is designed to minimize the
danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills, or other operational
accidents; and
      6.   Traffic patterns to or from the facility are so designed to minimize
the impact on existing traffic flows; and
      7.   If the facility will be treating, storing or disposing of hazardous
waste, an emergency response plan exists for the facility which includes
notification, containment and evacuation procedures to be used in case of an
accidental release; and
      8.   If the county board has adopted a solid waste management plan,
consistent with the planning requirements of the local solid waste disposal act
2  or the solid waste planning and recycling act 3 , the facility is consistent
with that plan; and
      9.   If the facility will be located within a regulated recharge area,
any applicable requirements specified by the board for such areas have been
met.
The committee and the county board may also consider as evidence the previous
operating experience and past record of convictions or admissions of violations
of the applicant (and any subsidiary or parent corporation of the applicant) in
the field of solid waste management when considering criteria in paragraphs E2
and E5 of this section. The applicant shall affirmatively present oral
testimony fairly showing the previous operating experience and past record of
convictions or admissions of violations of the applicant (and any subsidiary or
parent corporation of the applicant) in the field of solid waste management.
   F.   A transcript shall be kept of all proceedings before the committee. The
hearing officer shall preside at the public hearing and shall make any
decisions concerning the admission of evidence and the manner in which the
hearing is conducted subject to this division and the articles of rules and
procedures. However, the hearing officer shall make all rulings and decisions
in accordance with fundamental fairness. No ruling of the hearing officer
concerning admissibility of evidence or procedural issues at the public hearing
shall be appealable to the county board. Issues of jurisdiction shall be
finally determined by the county board.
   G.   The applicant for site location approval shall have the burden of proof
and the burden of going forward with evidence. The testimonial evidence
introduced by the applicant may not exceed the scope of the application. Such
oral testimony may only explain and clarify the application, not expand or
amend the application.
   H.   All persons desiring to be participants in the hearing, including
members of the public, must submit written notification of said intent to the
county clerk before the first day of the public hearing or register with the
hearing officer on the first day of the hearing. Any person so appearing at
such public hearing shall have the right to present testimony and witnesses.
Any such person shall have the right to be represented by an attorney at said
public hearing. Opportunity for any persons appearing at said public hearing to
cross examine any witness may be reasonably limited in time and duration by the
hearing officer, to assure completion of the hearings in accordance with the
deadlines of the act. The hearing officer may propound questions to any witness
or to the applicant to clarify the record established by the participants at
the hearing or to bring out relevant information. The county shall be deemed a
participant and a party to all proceedings and shall proceed last with its case
and cross examination.
   I.   The applicant and the county's counsel shall be allowed to cross
examine witnesses by right, subject to such reasonable limitation as may be set
by the hearing officer. Cross examination by the county shall not be limited to
matters contained in the application. Parties represented by attorneys may be
allowed to cross examine in the discretion of the hearing officer. Other
persons shall be allowed to submit questions to the hearing officer, who shall
exercise discretion in the manner in which such questions are to be posed to
witnesses. Sufficient examination of witnesses is to be allowed so as to
provide for fundamental fairness.
   J.   All witnesses shall testify under oath. Testimony may include the use
of prepared statements and exhibits. If testimony is by prepared statement,
copies of such prepared statements shall be made available at the hearings (or,
prior to the first hearing date, at the office of the county clerk) at least
one day in advance of such testimony being given. All witnesses shall be
subject to reasonable examination as follows: direct, cross examination,
redirect, and recross.
   K.   The hearing officer may exercise discretion to allow public comment at
each hearing or may set one time for public comment.
   L.   The hearing officer shall, in the hearing officer's discretion and to
the extent reasonably practicable, permit the county, the applicant and any
party to file proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The hearing
officer shall draft his or her own proposed findings of fact and conclusions of
law and submit them, and copies of such other proposed findings of fact and
conclusions of law as may have been filed, to the committee.
   M.   The decision of the committee on the application shall be in writing,
specifying the reason(s) for the decision, in accordance with paragraph E of
this section. The deliberations of the committee are and shall be subject to
the Illinois open meetings act 4 . The committee shall submit its report to the
county board as soon as practicable.
   N.   The siting approval procedures and criteria provided for in the act and
in this division for new PCFs shall be the exclusive siting procedures and
rules and approval procedures. Local zoning or other local land use
requirements shall not be applicable to such siting decisions. However, to the
extent provided by law, the applicant shall also comply with zoning and other
requirements. (Ord., 1-19-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/22.19a.
2 1. 415 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
3 2. 415 ILCS 15/1 et seq.
4 1. 5 ILCS 120/1.01 et seq.
10-9-7: DECISIONS:
   A.   Once the committee has made its recommendation and reduced its
recommendation to writing, the written recommendation shall be submitted to the
full county board for its decision as to the ultimate approval or disapproval
of the proposed site location. Four (4) copies of the record of the public
hearing shall also be made available to the full county board in the county
board office as soon as the transcript becomes available.
   B.   The county board shall make a decision based on the record from the
public hearing and review of the recommendation of the committee. The decision
of the county board shall be by resolution in writing, specifying the reasons
for the decision, such reasons to be in conformity with section 39.2(a) of the
act. In granting site location approval, the county board may impose such
conditions as may be reasonable and necessary to accomplish the purposes of the
act to the extent that said conditions are not inconsistent with the act and
the regulations promulgated by the Illinois pollution control board. Such
decisions shall be available for public inspection at the office of the county
clerk and may be copied upon payment of the cost of reproduction. If there is
no final action by the county board within one hundred eighty (180) days after
the filing of the application for site location approval, the applicant may
deem the application approved.
   C.   An applicant may not file an application for site location approval
which is substantially the same as a request which was disapproved, pursuant to
a finding against the applicant under any criteria of paragraphs 10-9-6E1
through E9 of this division, and of section 39.2(a) of the act, within two (2)
years. (Ord., 1-19-1999)
10-9-8: RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR COMMITTEE:
   EXHIBIT A
   ARTICLES OF RULES AND PROCEDURES
   POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY SITING COMMITTEE
   OGLE COUNTY, ILLINOIS
Article I: General Provisions
Section 1: These rules and procedures are supplementary to the provisions of
the pollution control facility siting ordinance (the "ordinance") and relate to
procedures of the regional pollution control facility siting committee (the
"committee"). References and terms herein shall be defined as in the ordinance.
Section 2: The state's attorney shall be consulted where the powers of the
committee are not clearly defined.
Article II: Responsibilities And Duties
Section 1: The committee shall have a chairman and an acting chairman, as
provided for in this division.
Section 2: The chairman shall supervise the affairs of the committee and
preside at all meetings and public hearing(s).
Section 3: In the absence of the chairman, the acting chairman shall perform
all duties and exercise all powers of the chairman.
Section 4: A court reporter shall be employed by the committee, and shall be
present at any and all public hearings on an application for local siting
approval and shall provide the committee with a certified transcript of the
hearing as soon as possible. A secretary may be employed by the committee to
assist the hearing officer during the hearing process.
Article III: Meetings And Hearings
Section 1: Meetings and hearings shall be called by the chairman at such times
as may be deemed necessary. At public hearings conducted pursuant to this
division wherein evidence is taken, arguments made or procedures discussed, the
hearing officer may schedule continued hearings.
Section 2: The chairman shall provide at least forty eight (48) hours' notice
to all committee members of any special meeting called by him/her. The forty
eight (48) hour notice requirement does not apply to continued public hearings
for local siting approval pursuant to this division.
Section 3: All hearings shall be open to the public.
Section 4: A quorum of the committee, for purposes of voting on the
recommendation to the county board regarding the site approval application
shall be five (5) members. No committee members need be present when public
hearings under this division are being conducted by the hearing officer and the
meeting is being transcribed as provided herein.
Section 5: Conduct Of The Hearing
   A.   The applicant for siting approval shall have the burden of proof and
the burden of going forward with the evidence as to the suitability of the site
location for the proposed use.
   B.   If the applicant is a natural person, the applicant may appear at the
public hearing on his/her own behalf, or be represented by counsel or agent. If
the applicant is not a natural person, the applicant must be represented by
counsel.
   C.   The hearing officer shall call the hearing to order and shall allow the
applicant and the county or its counsel or agent, to make an opening statement.
The hearing officer may allow objectors or their counsel to make an opening
statement.
   D.   The committee shall then hear testimony from the applicant and/or any
witnesses the applicant may wish to call. Upon the close of the applicant's
testimony, any other parties may offer any witnesses and evidence they may wish
to present. These other parties may or may not be represented by counsel on the
same basis as the applicant. Upon the close of the applicant's and other
parties' testimony and evidence, the county may present any witnesses and
evidence it may wish to present, unless the county is the applicant, in which
case it shall proceed as set out above. The hearing officer shall decide the
order of presentation of testimony subject to these rules.
   E.   All witnesses shall testify under oath. Testimony may include the use
of exhibits. All witnesses shall be subject to reasonable examination as
follows: direct, cross, redirect, recross, etc. After all parties have
presented testimony, reasonable rebuttal, sur-rebuttal, etc., may be allowed at
the discretion of the hearing officer.
   F.   The hearing officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent or
unduly repetitious testimony or other evidence. The hearing officer shall rule
on all questions relating to the admissibility of evidence. These rulings shall
not be appealable to the county board.
   G.   1. At any time prior to completion by the applicant of the presentation
of the applicant's factual evidence and an opportunity for cross questioning by
the county and any participants, the applicant may file not more than one
amended application upon payment of additional fees pursuant to paragraph 10-9-
4A2 of this division. Provided, however, that the time limitation for final
action set forth in section 39.2(e) of the act, as amended, and paragraph 10-9-
7B of this division, shall be extended for an additional period of ninety (90)
days.
      2.   Within thirty (30) days of the filing of the amendment(s), the
chairman of the committee, pursuant to paragraph 10-9-6C of this division,
shall notify the applicant of the date of the public hearing, said public
hearing to be held pursuant to these articles of rules and procedures.
      3.   An applicant may not file a request for local siting approval which
is substantially the same as a request which was disapproved, pursuant to a
finding against the applicant under any criteria of paragraphs 10-9-6E1 through
E9 of this division, within two (2) years.
   H.   Any committee member who has, or feels he has, any disqualifying
interest in the property or affairs of the applicant may be excused from
participating in any hearing or decision of the committee.
   I.   All parties wishing to testify or cross examine must sign in or submit
written notification of said intent to the county on or before the first date
of the hearing; if the hearing should extend beyond one session no additional
parties shall be allowed to testify or cross examine.
Article IV: Factors To Be Considered By
   The Committee In Making Its Decision
In making its recommendation on the pending application, the committee shall
base its decision on the factors listed in this division.
Article V: Notices
Section 1: Notice shall be given in the manner prescribed by this division and
the act.
Section 2: All notices shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant requesting site location
approval.
   B.   The owner of the site, and in case ownership is in a land trust, the
names and addresses of the beneficiaries of said trust.
   C.   The legal description of the site.
   D.   The street address of the property, and if there is no street address
applicable to the property, a description of the site with reference to
location, ownership or occupancy or in some other manner that will reasonably
identify the property to residents of the area.
   E.   The nature and size of the proposed development.
   F.   The probable life of the proposed activity.
   G.   The date, time and location of the public hearing.
   H.   A statement that the application is available to the public in the
office of the county clerk, and that copies of the application are available
upon payment of actual cost of reproduction, as outlined in the constraints of
the freedom of information act 1 .
Article VI: Fees
The fee, as described in paragraph 10-9-4A2 of this division, must be paid by
the applicant at the time an application is filed and additional payments must
be made as required by this division, before the application may be considered.
Article VII: Committee Recommendation
Section 1: The committee shall meet after the public hearing to make its
recommendation as to site approval to the county board. This meeting shall be
open to the public, but no further evidence, testimony or input from the
parties or the public will be allowed.
Section 2: At this meeting, the committee shall vote as to its recommendation
on the application (and amendment, if applicable) and submit a written report
on the vote to the county board. This report must be filed with the county
clerk as soon as practicable.
Article VIII: Waiver Of Rules
In order to ensure fundamental fairness, compliance with the act, and to
protect the public interest, the committee, by majority vote of members present
and voting, may waive any of these articles.
Article IX: Application
Section 1: General Procedures
   A.   An application for a pollution control facility shall be presented as
described in the ordinance and these articles. Additional pages shall be
attached where the space provided is insufficient.
   B.   The applicant shall submit twenty five (25) copies of the completed
application as described in the following sections.
   C.   All sections of the application shall be clearly marked and submitted
with dividers. Exhibits and drawings shall be clearly marked as to what
sections they pertain. Notwithstanding the specific application requirements
detailed herein, applicants must include all information which the applicant
believes necessary to demonstrate compliance with the standards of the
ordinance.
   D.   The application shall be deemed amended if at any time after the
official filing date the applicant either changes any of the information
contained in the application or submits any additional substantive information,
either written or oral, regarding the application.
      "APPLICATION FOR POLLUTION
      CONTROL FACILITY SITING APPROVAL"
A.   IDENTIFICATION
1.   Name of Applicant      
2.   Address of Applicant      
(Street, P.O. Box, RR)
                  
City State Zip Code
Telephone      
(Area Code) (Number)
3.   Name of Operator      
4.   Address of Operator      
(Street, P.O. Box, RR)
   
City State Zip Code
Telephone      
(Area Code) (Number)
5.   For both the Applicant and the proposed Operator, provide the following
information:
(a)   If a partnership, submit names and addresses of all partners. If a
corporation, submit names and addresses of all Officers and Directors, and the
names and addresses of all shareholders owning ten percent (10%) or more of the
capital stock of said corporation.
(b)   If a corporation, submit a copy of the Articles of Incorporation as an
exhibit. If the corporation is more than fifty percent (50%) owned by another
corporation, the requirements of this part shall be applicable to said
corporation.
(c)   Submit audited financial statements of the applicant and operator for the
five (5) preceding years. If new corporation, provide statement for years
available.
6.   Name of Site      
7.   Address of Site      
(Street, P.O. Box, RR)
   
City State Zip Code
   
County Township
8.   Legal Description of Site (Attach Plat of Survey)
   
   
   
   
   
9.   Attach copies of all insurance policies relevant to the premises and the
operations carried on at the location for which the applicant seeks site
location approval. Describe the insurance policies carried by the applicant to
cover single incidents and gradual and fortuitous incidents, as well as
insurance coverage which the applicant intends to obtain.
   
   
   
   
   
   
B.   SITE HISTORY (Check applicable box or boxes)
1.   ( )   This is a proposed operation
( )   This is a proposed expansion of an existing operation:
Illinois E.P.A. Permit No.   
( ) No Illinois E.P.A. Permit.
 
2.   Existing land use on Site
   
   
3.   List any covenants recorded against the site
   
   
   
C.   OPERATION CLASSIFICATION
1.   Type of Pollution Control Facility proposed (Check applicable box or
boxes)
 
( )   Waste storage site
( )   Landfill or other disposal site
( )   Transfer Station
( )   Incinerator
( )   Other: Explain   
2.   Type(s) of wastes proposed to be deposited at the site, as defined in the
Illinois Environmental Protection Act ("Act"):
   
   
   
   
   
D.   SITE LOCATION
1.   Attach a copy of the United States Geological Survey (U.S.G.S.)
topographic quadrangle map of the area which includes the site (7.5 minute
quadrangle, if published).
Quadrangle Map provided:                              
(name)    (date)
2.   Outline the location and extent of the site on the U.S.G.S. topography
quadrangle map.
3.   Provide State Plane coordinates of the Southwest Corner of the Site using
the State Plane Coordinate System.
(East Zone):
                feet east,                 feet north of origin.
4.   General characteristics (Flood plain, Hillside, Field, Strip Mine, Quarry,
Gully, Gravel Pit, Swamp, etc.)
Briefly describe:
   
   
   
E.   NOTICE TO ADJOINING LAND OWNERS
There shall be filed with the application copies of the pre-filing notices
required to be served under the Act, together with evidence of service thereof
as provided in said Act.
F.   SPECIFIC INFORMATION BY CRITERIA
1.   The applicant shall submit the information requested hereafter as part of
the application.
2.   The format of this part of the application shall be as follows:
a.   This part of the application shall be divided into nine (9) subsections
corresponding to the nine (9) criteria given in Section 39.2(b) of the Act.
These subsections shall be clearly marked with dividers or other suitable
means. Exhibits and drawings shall be clearly marked with respect to which
section and subsection they pertain.
b.   A tenth subsection shall be included that provides documentation
concerning the previous operating experience and past record of convictions or
admissions of violations of the applicant (and any subsidiary or parent
corporation of applicant) in the field of solid waste management.
3.   Subsection One. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed facility is necessary to accommodate the waste
needs of the area that it is intended to serve. Subsection One shall include
but is not limited to the following:
a.   A map showing the extent of the service area the facility is intended to
serve.
b.   A study performed by an experienced solid waste planner establishing that
the proposed facility is necessary to accommodate the needs of the service
area. The subsection shall include the qualifications of the individual or
company that completed the study. Minimum requirements of the study are:
(1)   A calculation of the current amount of waste generated and disposed
within the service area and an estimate of the amount of waste to be generated
and disposed within the service area for the next 20 years.
(2)   A calculation of the current amount of waste exported out of and imported
into the service area.
(3)   A calculation of the capacity of the proposed facility, the estimated
daily volume of waste to be received and the source of said waste, and the
estimated duration of operation at the proposed facility.
(4)   A description of the type(s) of waste to be received.
(5)   A calculation of the permitted disposal capacity available within the
service area.
(6)   An estimate of the current cost of disposal in the service area.
(7)   An economic analysis comparing the cost of disposal in the service area
if the facility is sited and if the facility is not sited.
4.   Subsection Two. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed facility is so designed, located and proposed to
be operated that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected.
Subsection Two shall include but is not limited to the following:
 a.   The subsection shall contain all applicable information required by the
Act and the Board regulations for development permit applications. If the
facility is a landfill, the application shall include, but not be limited to
information required under 35 Ill. Admin. Code 812 with the exception of the
following Sections: 812.101, 812.103, 812.104, 812.105, 812.110(a), 812.306(b)
(3), 812.308(a)(1), 812.316, 812.317(f), and 812.317(l).
b.   The subsection shall include a site plan showing details of the proposed
facility including:
(1)   cross sections;
(2)   all wells within 500 feet of site;
(3)   fences, buildings and other structures;
(4)   roads, entrances and driveways;
(5)   core sample locations on and within 200 feet of the site;
(6)   the location of all streams, ponds, rivers and lakes within a one (1)
mile radius of the site.
5.   Subsection Three. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed facility is located so as to minimize
incompatibility with the character of the surrounding area and to minimize the
effect on the value of the surrounding property. Section Three shall include
but is not limited to the following:
a.   A Land Assessment Study shall be performed by a certified land use planner
who will consider the proposed facility and its compatibility with the
surrounding land uses. The subsection shall include the qualifications of the
individual and company that completed the study. The study shall include, but
not be limited to:
(1)   An exhibit showing the land uses within a one mile radius of the proposed
site and all airports within five miles of the site.
(2)   Typical photographic views of the proposed site from selected residences
and commercial/industrial establishments within one mile of the boundary of the
proposed facility which fairly depict the site from each direction.
(3)   A description of the landscape mitigation plan to be implemented at the
proposed facility to minimize the incompatibility with the surrounding area
during the operating life of the facility. The landscape mitigation plan shall
include the final design grades of the facility.
(4)   A description of the proposed use of the site after the PCF is closed.
(5)   A description of the history of the development of the site and the
surrounding area and current trends of development in the surrounding area and
the proposed facility's impact on those trends.
b.   A Property Value Impact Study shall be performed by a certified real
estate appraiser to determine the effects on property values in the surrounding
areas. The subsection shall include the qualifications of the individual and
company that completed the study. The study shall include, but not be limited
to:
(1)   A map that graphically depicts the existing property values within a one
quarter mile radius of the site as determined by the study. The map should be
based upon a survey of property values based on transactions occurring within
the past 5 years. All values shall be given in present dollar values. Where
transaction data is unavailable, tax assessments shall be used provided they
are adjusted to account for local differences between market values and
assessed values.
(2)   A map that graphically depicts the proposed site's impact on property
values within the one mile radius.
(3)   A description and analysis of factors relating to the proposed site that
may impact property values in the area along with a description of the design
features and operating procedures that will be used to minimize the impact on
property values.
(4)   A description of the anticipated cost of developing the proposed site,
and in turn, the economic yield to the County resulting from the proposed
development.
6.   Subsection Four. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that (A) for a facility other than a sanitary landfill or waste
disposal site, the facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-year
flood plain, or that the site is flood-proofed; (B) for a facility that is a
sanitary landfill or waste disposal site, the facility is located outside the
boundary of the 100-year flood plain, or if the facility is a facility
described in subsection (b) of Section 22.19a of the Illinois Environmental
Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/22.19a), or that the site is flood-proofed.
Subsection Four shall include but is not limited to the following:
a.   A map prepared by a professional engineer registered in the State of
Illinois showing the proximity of any 100-year flood plain to the proposed
site.
b.   For a facility other than a landfill or waste disposal site or a facility
described in subsection of Section 22.19a of the Illinois Environmental
Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/22.19a), if the site is located in the 100-year
flood plain, design drawings and calculations prepared by a professional
engineer registered in the State of Illinois shall be required as evidence that
the site is flood-proofed.
7.   Subsection Five. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed Plan of Operations for the facility is designed
to minimize the danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills, or other
accidents. Subsection Five shall include but is not limited to the following:
a.   A Fire Protection Plan that includes, but is not limited to maintaining a
supply of water on-site and radio or telephone access to the nearest fire
department.
b.   A Load Checking Program for detecting and discouraging the disposal of
hazardous waste in non-hazardous waste facilities. If the PCF is a landfill,
the Load Checking Program Plan must comply with the requirements of 35 Ill.
Admin. Code Sec. 811.323.
c.   An Accident Prevention Plan designed to prevent spills and other accidents
that may occur on the site. The plan shall include but is not limited to
providing emergency response instructions, spill prevention and clean-up
methods and worker safety instructional plans.
8.   Subsection Six. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the proposed traffic patterns to and from the facility are so
designed as to minimize the impact on existing traffic flows. Subsection Six
shall include but is not limited to the following:
a.   A Traffic Impact Study performed by an experienced traffic engineer who is
registered as a professional engineer in the State of Illinois. The subsection
shall include, but is not limited to:
(1)   A statement of the qualifications of the individual and company that
completed the study.
(2)   A map showing all roads and highways along with their respective
classifications that will be used by traffic generated by the proposed
facility.
(3)   Volume counts taken within the past six months for the roads and highways
indicated in (ii) above.
(4)   A survey of accidents within the past five years that may indicate
problem intersections or roads.
(5)   A calculation of average and peak traffic flows that will be generated by
the proposed site.
9.   Subsection Seven. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that if the proposed facility will be treating, storing or
disposing of hazardous waste, an emergency response plan exists for the
facility which includes notification, containment and evacuation procedures to
be used in case of an accidental release. Subsection Seven shall include, but
not be limited to the following:
a.   Certification that hazardous waste will not be treated, stored or disposed
of on site; or
b.   A proposed Emergency Response Plan for the site which shall include, but
not be limited to:
(1)   Provision for the notification of appropriate agencies and personnel in
the event of a release or substantial threat of a release,
(2)   Containment and removal procedures, and
(3)   Evacuation procedures for the facility and the surrounding area.
10.   Subsection Eight. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that it is consistent with the Ogle County Solid Waste Management
plan adopted under the Local Solid Waste Disposal Act (415 ILCS 10/1 et seq.)
or the Solid Waste Planning and Recycling Act (415 ILCS 15/1 et seq.).
Subsection Eight shall include, but not be limited to the following:
a.   Evidence from the solid waste management plan that the facility is
consistent with that plan; or
b.   Statement that no such plan has yet been adopted.
11.   Subsection Nine. The application shall contain sufficient detail to
demonstrate that if the proposed facility will be located within a regulated
recharge area, all applicable requirements specified by the Board for such
areas have been met. Subsection Nine shall include but is not limited to the
following:
a.   Evidence and documentation that any requirements specified by the Board
have been met; or
b.   Evidence and documentation that the facility will not be located in a
regulated recharge area.
12.   Subsection Ten. The County Board may also consider as evidence the
previous operating experience and past record of convictions or admissions of
violations of the applicant (and any subsidiary or parent corporation) in the
field of solid waste management when considering criteria two and five as
defined by Section 39.2(a) of the Act. Subsection Ten shall include, but not be
limited to the following:
a.   Documentation regarding the previous operating experience and past record
of convictions or admissions of violations of the applicant (and any subsidiary
or parent corporation) in the field of solid waste management.
b.   A clear listing of the following information:
(1)   All convictions or admissions of violations, either criminal or civil, of
any foreign, federal, state or local environmental regulation or statute of (a)
the applicant, (b) any subsidiary corporation of the applicant, and (c) any
parent corporation of the applicant in the field of solid waste management.
(2)   Description of solid waste management program operated at the facility
which involved the conviction(s) or admission(s) of violation(s).
(3)   Enforcement action, if any, taken by government entity involved.
(4)   Remedial action taken at site, if any, including cost thereof.
c.   State whether or not the applicant or operator has ever closed a pollution
control facility voluntarily or involuntarily and the location of said facility
and the date on which the process of closing started and the date on which it
was completed.
d.   Where a prospective applicant anticipates filing an application for site
location approval and believes that the volume of documents required to be
included in the application pursuant to this subsection is unduly voluminous,
that prospective applicant may petition the Committee in writing for relief.
Such a petition must be filed prior to filing an application for site location
approval. The petition must be filed with the County Clerk and be clearly
labeled as a filing pertaining to the Committee. A copy of said petition must
be sent by registered mail return receipt requested to each member of the
Committee. The petition must show with particularity the following:
(1)   a summary of each conviction or admission of civil and criminal
violations in the field of waste management; and
(2)   the full and complete basis for the prospective applicant's contention
that the filing of the documentation required by this subsection and providing
the requisite number of copies thereof is unduly burdensome; and
(3)   the basis upon which it is contended that the burden on the prospective
applicant outweighs the County's need for the information, documentation or
other material required be filed pursuant hereto.
The Committee shall meet to determine whether fundamental fairness requires
granting the requested relief. The applicant shall furnish any additional
information and documentation requested.
The granting of such relief is not favored and relief will be granted only to
the extent necessary to prevent a breach of fundamental fairness. The Committee
shall not explain the reasons for its decision. It shall simply deny the
petition or grant some form of relief. No decision of the Committee is
appealable to the County Board.
The prospective applicant shall have no right to address the Committee. The
Committee may make its determination solely upon the petition of the
prospective applicant. The prospective applicant or his attorney shall be
notified by letter at the address supplied in the petition.
13.   Additional Information. Additional information may be included as an
appendix to the application if the applicant feels this information is helpful
and/or necessary.
G.   SIGNATURE AND NOTARY
I hereby affirm that all information contained in this application is true and
complete to the best of my knowledge and belief.
Signature of Applicant:
                                                                  
(Date)
Notary:                                                                       
(SEAL)         (Date)
Signature of Proposed Operator(s):
                                                                 
(Date)
                                                                 
(Date)
Notary:                                                             
(SEAL)         (Date)
Signature of Engineer/Land Surveyor:
                                                            
(Date)
Illinois Registration Numbers:
                                                             
(SEAL)         (Date)
Signature of other person(s), technical and non-technical, who have supplied
data contained in the submittal:
                                                                 
(Signature)         (Date)
                                                                                                                
(Registration Number, Position, Title)         (Date)
                                                                 
(Signature)         (Date)
                                                                                                                
(Registration Number, Position, Title)         (Date)
(Ord., 1-19-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
DIVISION 10
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
10-10-1: Authority And Purpose
10-10-2: Definitions
10-10-3: Applicability
10-10-4: Drainage Permit Requirements, Application Procedure And Duration
10-10-4-1: Basic Drainage Plan
10-10-4-2: Advanced Drainage Plan
10-10-5: Minimization Of Increases In Runoff Volumes And Rates
10-10-6: Water Quality And Multiple Uses
10-10-7: Design Criteria, Standards, And Methods
10-10-8: Accommodating Flows From Upstream Tributary Areas
10-10-9: Early Completion Of Detention Facilities
10-10-10: Fee In Lieu Of Detention
10-10-11: Maintenance Responsibility
10-10-12: Administration
10-10-13: Severability
10-10-14: Penalties
10-10-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This division is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the county by
the Illinois Compiled Statutes 1 . The purpose of this division is to diminish
threats to public health, safety and welfare caused by runoff of excessive
stormwater from new development and redevelopment. This excessive stormwater
could result in the inundation of damageable properties, the erosion and
destabilization of downstream channels, and the pollution of valuable stream
and lake resources. A cause of increases in stormwater runoff quantity and rate
and impairment of quality is the development and improvement of land and as
such this division regulates these activities to prevent adverse impacts. This
division is adopted to accomplish the following objectives:
   A.   To assure that new development does not increase the drainage or flood
hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage due to increased stormwater runoff;
   C.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of increased flooding
on a watershed basis;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, correction of channel
erosion problems, and flood rescue and relief operations caused by increased
stormwater runoff quantities from new development;
   E.   To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land and
water resources;
   F.   To preserve the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
watercourses and floodplains and to protect water quality and aquatic habitats;
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics of stream corridors in order to
moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development. (Ord., 2-22-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/5-1041.
10-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADVERSE IMPACTS: Any deleterious impact on water resources or wetlands
affecting their beneficial uses including recreation, aesthetics, aquatic
habitat, quality, and quantity.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, or governmental agency who executes the necessary
forms to procure official approval of a development or permit to carry out
construction of a development from the county.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation at all locations delineating the level of
flooding resulting from the 100-year frequency flood event.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP): A measure used to control the adverse
stormwater related effects of development. BMPs include structural devices
(e.g., swales, filter strips, infiltration trenches, and detention basins.
Refer to the current acceptable standards shown in the environmental protection
agency urban manual and/or the soil and water conservation district standards.)
designed to remove pollutants, reduce runoff rates and volumes, and protect
aquatic habitats. BMPs also include nonstructural approaches, such as public
education efforts to prevent the dumping of household chemicals into storm
drains.
BYPASS FLOWS: Stormwater runoff from upstream properties tributary to a
property's drainage system but not under its control.
CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash, or natural or manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and
bank or shoreline, in or into which surface or ground water flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining, and significant removal of bottom or woody rooted
vegetation. Channel modification does not include the clearing of debris or
removal of trash.
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the floodplain used to balance the loss of natural
flood storage capacity when fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain.
CONDUIT: Any channel, pipe, sewer or culvert used for the conveyance or
movement of water, whether open or closed.
DETENTION BASIN: A facility constructed or modified to provide for the
temporary storage of stormwater runoff and the controlled release by gravity of
this runoff at a prescribed rate during and after a flood or storm.
DETENTION TIME: The mean residence time of stormwater in a detention basin.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
   A.   Preparation of a plat of subdivision for three (3) or more parcels;
   B.   Construction, reconstruction, placement of a building for business or
industrial purposes or any addition to a building for business or industrial
purposes or any improvement to the property or site;
   C.   Redevelopment of a site for commercial and/or industrial purposes;
   D.   Filling, dredging, grading, clearing, excavating, paving, or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface;
   E.   Storage or stockpiling of materials or deposit of nonagricultural solid
or liquid waste;
   F.   Any other activity that might alter the magnitude, frequency,
deviation, direction, or velocity of stormwater flowing from a property.
DRAINAGE PLAN: A plan, including engineering drawings and supporting
calculations, which describes the existing stormwater drainage system and
environmental features, as well as the drainage system and environmental
features which are proposed after development of a property.
DRY BASIN: A detention basin designed to drain completely after temporary
storage of stormwater flows and to normally be dry over the majority of its
bottom area.
EROSION: The general process whereby earth is removed by flowing water or wave
action.
EXCESS STORMWATER RUNOFF: The volume and rate of flow of stormwater discharged
from a developed drainage area which is or will be in excess of that volume and
rate which pertained before development.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD PRONE AREA: Property located outside areas delineated as zone A or zone
AE according to the Ogle County, Illinois, flood insurance rate maps but which
are subject to occasional flooding.
FLOODPLAIN: That land adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. The floodplain is also known as the special flood hazard area
(SFHA).
FLOODWAY: The channel and that portion of the floodplain adjacent to a stream
or watercourse which is needed to store and convey the anticipated existing and
future 100-year frequency flood discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase
in stage due to any loss of flood conveyance or storage and no more than a ten
percent (10%) increase in velocities.
HYDROGRAPH: A graph showing for a given location on a stream or conduit, the
flow rate with respect to time.
INFILTRATION: The passage or movement of water into the soil surfaces.
MAJOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM: That portion of a drainage system needed to store and
convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor drainage system.
MINOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM: That portion of a drainage system designed for the
convenience of the public. It consists of street gutters, storm sewers, small
open channels, and swales and where manmade, is usually designed to handle the
10-year runoff event or less.
MITIGATION: Includes those measures necessary to minimize the negative effects
which stormwater drainage and development activities might have on the public
health, safety and welfare. Examples of mitigation include compensatory
storage, soil erosion and sedimentation control, and channel restoration.
NATURAL: Conditions resulting from physical, chemical, and biological processes
without intervention by man.
100-YEAR EVENT: A rainfall, runoff, or flood event having a one percent (1%)
chance of occurring in any given year.
PEAK FLOW: The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel or
conduit.
POSITIVE DRAINAGE: Provision for overland paths for all areas of a property
including depressional areas that may also be drained by storm sewer.
PROPERTY: A parcel of real estate.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel, including on stream lakes, and that portion
of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse as designated by the
Illinois department of natural resources, office of water resources (OWR),
which is needed to store and convey the existing and anticipated future 100-
year frequency flood discharge with no more than 0.1 foot increase in stage due
to the loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a ten percent
(10%) increase in velocities. The regulatory floodways are designated for Ogle
County streams on the flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) prepared by FEMA and
dated April 5, 1988, or as may be updated from time to time. To locate the
regulatory floodway boundary on any site, the regulatory floodway boundary
should be scaled off the FIRMs and located on a site plan, using reference
marks common to both maps. Where interpretation is needed to determine the
exact location of the regulatory floodway boundary, the OWR should be contacted
for the interpretation.
RETENTION BASIN: A facility designed to completely retain a specified amount of
stormwater runoff without release except by means of evaporation, infiltration,
emergency bypass or pumping.
SEDIMENTATION: The process that deposits soils debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or stormwater drainage
systems.
STORM SEWER: A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater.
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: All means, natural or manmade, used for conducting
stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to the point of final outlet
from a property. The stormwater drainage system includes, but is not limited
to, any of the following: conduits and appurtenance features, canals, channels,
ditches, streams, culverts streets, storm sewers, detention basins, swales and
pumping stations.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling within
a tributary drainage basin which are in excess of the infiltration capacity of
the soils of that basin, which flow over the surface of the ground or are
collected in channels or conduits.
TIME OF CONCENTRATION: The elapsed time for stormwater to flow from the most
hydraulically remote point in a drainage basin to a particular point of
interest in that watershed.
TRIBUTARY WATERSHED: All of the land surface area that contributes runoff to a
given point.
2-YEAR EVENT: A runoff, rainfall, or flood event having a fifty percent (50%)
chance of occurring in any given year.
URBAN RUNOFF POLLUTANTS: Contaminants commonly found in urban runoff which have
been shown to adversely affect uses in receiving water bodies. Pollutants of
concern include sediment, heavy metals, petroleum based organic compounds,
nutrients, oxygen demanding organics (BOD), pesticides, salt and pathogens.
WET BASIN: A detention basin designed to maintain a permanent pool of water
after the temporary storage of stormwater runoff.
WETLAND BASIN: A detention basin designed with all or a portion of its bottom
area as a wetland. (Ord., 2-22-1999)
10-10-3: APPLICABILITY:
This division shall apply to all development in the unincorporated area of Ogle
County. When development to which this division applies occurs within one and
one-half (11/2) miles of an incorporated municipality, and that municipality
has a stormwater management ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive shall
apply. (Ord., 2-22-1999)
10-10-4: DRAINAGE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS, APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND DURATION:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by state law
shall commence any "development", as defined herein, without first obtaining a
drainage permit from the county engineer. The county engineer shall not issue a
permit if the proposed development does not meet the requirements contained
herein.
   A.   Requirements: Every application for a drainage permit shall be
accompanied by a drainage plan as required herein and such other information as
may be required by the county engineer for the proper enforcement of this
division. Each applicant shall submit the following information, depending on
development size, to ensure that the provisions of this division are met. The
submittal shall include sufficient information to evaluate the environmental
characteristics of the property, the potential adverse impacts of the
development on water resources both on site and downstream, and the
effectiveness of the proposed drainage plan in managing stormwater runoff. The
applicant shall certify on the drawings that all clearing, grading, drainage,
and construction shall be accomplished in strict conformance with the drainage
plan. The following information shall be submitted for both existing and
proposed property conditions. Properties smaller than ten (10) acres shall
submit only the basic drainage plan called for in section
10-10-4-1 of this division. Properties larger than ten (10) acres shall comply
with the submittal requirements of both the basic drainage plan and the
advanced drainage plan of section
10-10-4-2 of this division. (Ord., 2-22-1999)
   B.   Application Procedure: When "development", as defined herein, is
proposed that would not require the approval of a subdivision final plat, a
zoning certificate or a flood damage prevention development permit, the
applicant shall submit one application for a drainage permit each to both the
county engineer and the zoning administrator. When "development", as defined
herein, is proposed that would also require: (Ord., 2-22-1999; amd. Ord. 2010-
1101, 11-16-2010)
      1.   The approval of a subdivision final plat by the county board, the
applicant shall submit an application for a drainage permit, in duplicate,
along with the submission of a preliminary plat as required by the Ogle County
subdivision regulations; or
      2.   The issuance of a zoning certificate by the Ogle County zoning
administrator, the applicant shall submit an application for a drainage permit,
in duplicate, along with the submission of an application for a zoning
certificate as required by the Ogle County amendatory zoning ordinance; or
(Ord., 2-22-1999)
      3.   The issuance of a flood damage prevention development permit by the
Ogle County zoning administrator, the applicant shall submit an application for
a drainage permit, in duplicate, along with the submission of an application
for a flood damage prevention development permit as required by the Ogle County
flood damage prevention ordinance. (Ord., 2-22-1999; amd. Ord. 2010-1101, 11-
16-2010)
Upon receipt of an application for a drainage permit the zoning administrator
shall immediately forward one set of said application to the county engineer.
   C.   Duration Of Drainage Permit: When the county engineer has issued a
drainage permit, such permit shall become null and void six (6) months after
the date thereof unless the authorized development is commenced within such
period. (Ord., 2-22-1999)
10-10-4-1: BASIC DRAINAGE PLAN:
   A.   Topographic Map: A topographic survey of the property at two foot (2')
contours under existing and proposed conditions, and areas upstream and
downstream, necessary to determine off site impacts of the proposed drainage
plan. One foot (1') intervals may be required if deemed necessary by the county
engineer. The map shall be keyed to USGS elevations in English units as
specified by the county.
   B.   Drainage System: Mapping and descriptions, where relevant, of existing
and proposed drainage system features of the property and immediate vicinity
including:
      1.   The banks and centerline of streams and channels;
      2.   Shoreline of lakes, ponds, and detention basins;
      3.   Farm drains and tiles;
      4.   Sub-watershed boundaries within the property;
      5.   Watershed soils classifications;
      6.   The property's location within the larger watershed;
      7.   Location, type, size and slope of stormwater conduits and drainage
swales;
      8.   Sanitary or combined sewers;
      9.   Existing depressional storage areas;
      10.   Delineation of upstream and downstream drainage features and
watersheds which might be affected by the development;
      11.   Detention facilities;
      12.   Roads and streets and associated stormwater inlets;
      13.   Base flood elevation, and regulatory floodway where identified for
the property; and
      14.   Basis of design for the final drainage network components,
including supporting calculations.
   C.   Environmental Features: A depiction of environmental features of the
property and immediate vicinity including the following:
      1.   The limits of wetland areas as depicted upon the appropriate wetland
delineation map from the USDA soil conservation service and/or the U.S. fish
and wildlife service national wetland inventory maps.
      2.   Any designated natural areas; and
      3.   Any proposed environmental mitigation features.
   D.   Erosion And Sedimentation Plan: A plan depicting the methods utilized
to control erosion and sedimentation with BMPs. (Ord., 2-22-1999)
10-10-4-2: ADVANCED DRAINAGE PLAN:
The same information as required in section
10-10-4-1 of this division is required for properties larger than ten (10)
acres along with the following additional information for the minor drainage
system's design runoff event and the 100-year runoff event of critical
duration:
   A.   Elevations and maps of 100-year flooding;
   B.   Cross section data for open channel flow paths and designated overland
flow paths;
   C.   Direction of storm flows;
   D.   Flow rates and velocities at representative points in the drainage
system; and
   E.   A statement by the design engineer of the drainage system's provisions
for handling events greater than the 100-year's runoff including flowpaths and
areas of inundation. (Ord., 2-22-1999)
10-10-5: MINIMIZATION OF INCREASES IN RUNOFF VOLUMES AND RATES:
In the selection of a drainage plan for a development, the applicant shall
evaluate and implement, where practicable, site design features which minimize
the increase in runoff volumes and rates from the site. The applicant's
drainage plan submittal shall include evaluations of site design features which
are consistent with the following hierarchy:
   A.   Minimize impervious surfaces on the property, consistent with the needs
of the project and current development regulations;
   B.   Attenuate flows by use of open vegetated swales and natural depressions
and preserve existing natural stream channels;
   C.   Infiltrate runoff on site;
   D.   Provide stormwater retention structures;
   E.   Provide stormwater detention structures; and
   F.   Construct storm sewers. (Ord., 2-22-1999)
10-10-6: WATER QUALITY AND MULTIPLE USES:
The drainage system should be designed to minimize adverse water quality
impacts downstream and on the property itself. Detention basins shall
incorporate design features to capture stormwater runoff pollutants. In
particular, designers should give preference to wet bottom and wetland designs
and all flows from the development shall be routed through a basin (i.e., low
flows shall not be bypassed). Retention and infiltration of stormwater shall be
promoted throughout the property's drainage system to reduce the volume of
stormwater runoff and to reduce the quantity of runoff pollutants.
The drainage system should incorporate multiple uses where practicable. Uses
considered compatible with stormwater management include open space,
aesthetics, aquatic habitat, recreation (boating, trails, playing fields),
wetlands and water quality mitigation. The applicant should avoid using
portions of the property exclusively for stormwater management. (Ord., 2-22-
1999)
10-10-7: DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS, AND METHODS:
   A.   Release Rates: The drainage system for a property shall be designed to
control the peak rate of discharge from the property for the 2-year, 24-hour
and 100-year, 24-hour events to levels which will not cause an increase in
flooding or channel instability downstream when considered in aggregate with
other developed properties and downstream drainage capacities. The peak
discharge from events less than or equal to the 2-year event shall not be
greater than 0.04 cfs per acre of property drained. The peak 100-year discharge
shall not be greater than 0.2 cfs per acre of property drained.
   B.   Detention Basin Outlet Design: Backwater on the outlet structure from
the downstream drainage system shall be evaluated when designing the outlet.
   C.   Detention Storage Requirements: The design maximum storage to be
provided in a detention basin shall be based on the runoff from the 100-year,
24-hour event and reservoir (also called modified pool or level pool) routing
or equal. Detention storage shall be computed using hydrograph methods as
described in this section.
   D.   Drainage System Design And Evaluation: The following criteria should be
used in evaluating and designing the drainage system. The underlying objective
is to provide capacity to pass the 10-year peak flow in the minor drainage
system and an overland flow path for flows in excess of the design capacity.
      1.   Design Methodologies: Major and minor conveyance systems for areas
up to ten (10) acres may be designed using the rational formula. The rational
formula may also be used in sizing the minor drainage system for larger sites.
Runoff hydrograph methods as described in paragraph E of this section must be
used for major drainage system design for all systems with greater than ten
(10) acres of drainage area, for all properties in a flood prone area, and for
the design of all detention basins.
      2.   Positive Drainage: Whenever practicable, all areas of the property
must be provided an overland flow path that will pass the 100-year flow at a
stage at least one foot (1') below the lowest foundation grade in the vicinity
of the flow path. Overland flow paths designed to handle flows in excess of the
minor drainage system capacity shall be provided drainage easements. Street
ponding and flow depths shall not exceed curb heights by more than one inch
(1").
   E.   Methods For Generating Runoff Hydrographs: Runoff hydrographs shall be
developed incorporating the following assumptions of rainfall amounts and
antecedent moisture. Acceptable runoff hydrograph calculation methods would
include, but not necessarily be limited to, HEC-1, SCS TR 20, SCS TR 55 tabular
method, etc.
      1.   Rainfall: Unless a continuous simulation approach to drainage system
hydrology is used, all design rainfall events shall be based on the Illinois
state water survey's bulletin 70. The first quartile point rainfall
distribution shall be used for the design and analysis of conveyance systems
with critical durations less than six (6) hours. The second quartile point
rainfall distribution shall be used for the design and analysis of conveyance
systems with critical durations greater than six (6) hours and less than or
equal to twelve (12) hours. The third quartile point rainfall distribution
shall be used for the design and analysis of detention basins and conveyance
system with critical durations greater than twelve (12) and less than or equal
to twenty four (24) hours. The fourth quartile distribution shall be used in
the design and analysis of systems with durations greater than twenty four (24)
hours. The first, second, third, and fourth quartile distributions described by
Huff are presented in table 37 of bulletin 70. The SCS type II distribution may
be used as an alternate to the Huff distributions.
      2.   Antecedent Moisture: Computation of runoff hydrographs which do not
rely on a continuous accounting of antecedent moisture conditions shall assume
a conservative wet antecedent moisture condition as a minimum.
   F.   Wet Detention Basin Design: Wet detention basins shall be designed to
remove stormwater pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing, and as
much as feasible to be available for recreational use.
      1.   Wet Basin Depths: Wet basins shall be at least three feet (3') deep,
excluding near shore banks and safety ledges. If fish habitat is to be provided
they shall be at least ten feet (10') deep over twenty five percent (25%) of
the bottom area to prevent winter freeze out.
      2.   Wet Basin Shoreline Slopes: The side slopes of wet basins above the
normal pool elevation shall not be steeper than five to one (5:1) (horizontal
to vertical).
      3.   Permanent Pool Volume: The permanent pool volume in a wet basin at
normal depth shall be equal to or greater than the runoff volume from its
watershed for the 2-year event.
      4.   Inlet And Outlet Orientation: To the extent feasible, the distance
between detention inlets and outlets shall be maximized. If possible, they
should be at opposite ends of the basin.
   G.   Wetland And Dry Detention Basin Design: In addition to the other
requirements of this division, wetland and dry basins shall be designed to
remove stormwater pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing and as
much as feasible to be available for multiple uses.
      1.   Wetland And Dry Basin Drainage: Wetland and dry basins shall be
designed so that the portion of their bottom area which is intended to be dry
shall have standing water no longer than forty eight (48) hours for any runoff
event less than the 100-year event. Underdrains directed to the outlet may be
used to accomplish this requirement. Grading plans shall clearly distinguish
the wet/wetland portion of the basin bottom from the dry portion. Ground slopes
in the dry portions of detention basins shall be 1.5 percent or steeper slope.
      2.   Velocity Dissipation: Velocity dissipation measures shall be
incorporated into dry basin designs to minimize erosion at inlets and outlets
and to minimize the resuspension of pollutants.
      3.   Inlet And Outlet Orientation: To the extent feasible, the distance
between detention inlets and outlets shall be maximized. If possible, they
should be at opposite ends of the basin. There should be no low flow bypass
between the inlet and outlet and paved low flow channels shall not be used.
      4.   Stilling/Sedimentation Basins: A temporary stilling/sedimentation
basin should be constructed at each major inlet to a wetland or dry basin. The
volume of the basins should be at least five hundred (500) cubic feet per acre
of impervious surface in the drainage area. Side slopes of the basins shall be
no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical (3:1) and basin depths should
be at least three feet (3') to minimize resuspension of accumulated sediment. A
detention facility may be utilized as a temporary stilling/sedimentation basin
for its drainage area. The required detention volume must be maintained at all
times.
   H.   Minimum Detention Outlet Size: Where a single pipe outlet or orifice
plate is to be used to control discharge, it shall have a minimum diameter of
three inches (3"). If this minimum orifice size permits release rates greater
than those specified in this section, and regional detention is not a practical
alternative, alternative outlet designs shall be utilized which incorporate
self-cleaning flow restrictors.
   I.   Detention In Floodplains: The placement of detention basins within the
floodplain is strongly discouraged because of questions about their reliable
operation during flood events. However, the stormwater detention requirements
of this division may be fulfilled by providing detention storage within flood
fringe areas on the project site provided the following provisions are met:
      1.   Detention In Flood Fringe Areas: The placement of a detention basin
in a flood fringe area shall require compensatory storage for 1.5 times the
volume below the base flood elevation occupied by the detention basin including
any berms. The release from the detention storage provided shall still be
controlled consistent with the requirements of this section. The applicant
shall demonstrate its operation for all stream flow and floodplain backwater
conditions. Excavations for compensatory storage along watercourses shall be
opposite or adjacent to the area occupied by detention. All floodplain storage
lost below the 10-year flood elevation shall be replaced below the 10-year
flood elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
compensatory storage excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse.
      2.   Detention In Floodways: Detention basins shall be placed in the
floodway only in accordance with paragraph I3 of this section.
      3.   On Stream Detention: On stream detention basins are discouraged but
allowable if they provide regional public benefits and if they meet the other
provisions of this division with respect to water quality and control of the 2-
year and 100-year, 24-hour events from the property. Further criteria are
presented in section
10-10-8 of this division. If on stream detention is used for watersheds larger
than one square mile, it is recommended that the applicant use dynamic modeling
to demonstrate that the design will not increase stage for any properties
upstream or downstream of the property. Also, impoundment of the stream as part
of on stream detention:
         a.   Shall not prevent the migration of indigenous fish species, which
require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle, such as for
spawning;
         b.   Shall not cause or contribute to the degradation of water quality
or stream aquatic habitat;
         c.   Shall include a design calling for gradual bank slopes,
appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a presedimentation basin;
         d.   Shall not involve any stream channelization or the filling of
wetlands;
         e.   Shall require the implementation of an effective nonpoint source
management program throughout the upstream watershed which shall include at a
minimum: runoff reduction BMPs consistent with section
10-10-5 of this division; 2-year detention/sedimentation basins for all
development consistent with paragraph J4 of this section; and a program to
control nonpoint sources at the source for prior development constructed
without appropriate stormwater BMPs;
         f.   Shall not occur downstream of a wastewater discharge; and (Ord.,
2-22-1999)
         g.   Shall comply with 92 Illinois administrative code parts 702 and
708 and the Ogle County flood damage prevention ordinance. (Ord., 2-22-1999;
amd. Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
   J.   Protection Of Wetlands And Other Depressional Storage Areas: Wetlands
and other depressional storage areas shall be protected from damaging
modifications and adverse changes in runoff quality and quantity associated
with land developments. In addition to the other requirements of this division,
the following requirements shall be met for all developments whose drainage
flows into wetlands and other depressional storage areas (as appropriate):
      1.   Detention In Wetlands And Depressional Storage Areas: Existing
wetlands shall not be modified for the purposes of stormwater detention unless
it is demonstrated that the existing wetland is low in quality and the proposed
modifications will maintain or improve its habitat and ability to perform
beneficial functions. Existing storage and release rate characteristics of
wetlands and other depressional storage areas shall be maintained and the
volume of detention storage provided to meet the requirements of this section
shall be in addition to this existing storage.
      2.   Sediment Control: The existing wetland shall be protected during
construction by appropriate soil erosion and sediment control measures and
shall not be filled.
      3.   Alteration Of Drainage Patterns: Site drainage patterns shall not be
altered to substantially decrease or increase the existing area tributary to
the wetland.
      4.   Detention/Sedimentation: All runoff from the development shall be
routed through a preliminary detention/sedimentation basin designed to capture
the 2-year, 24-hour event and hold it for at least twenty four (24) hours,
before being discharged to the wetland. This basin shall be constructed before
property grading begins. In addition, the drainage hierarchy defined in section
10-10-5 of this division should be followed to minimize runoff volumes and
rates being discharged to the wetland.
      5.   Vegetated Buffer Strip: A buffer strip of at least twenty five feet
(25') in width, vegetated with native plant species, shall be maintained or
restored around the periphery of the wetland. No development, with the
exception of recreational trails, shall take place within the buffer strip.
   K.   Street, Parking Lot, And Culvert Drainage:
      1.   Streets: If streets are to be used as part of the minor or major
drainage system, ponding depths shall not exceed curb heights by more than one
inch (1") and shall not remain flooded for more than eight (8) hours for any
event less than or equal to the 100-year event.
      2.   Parking Lots: The maximum stormwater ponding depth in any parking
area shall not exceed six inches (6") for more than four (4) hours.
      3.   Culvert Road And Driveway Crossings: Sizing of culvert crossings
shall consider entrance and exit losses as well as tailwater conditions on the
culvert.
   L.   Infiltration Practices: To effectively reduce runoff volumes,
infiltration practices including basins, trenches, and porous pavement should
be located on soils in hydrologic soil groups A or B as designated by the U.S.
soil conservation service. Infiltration basins and trenches designed to
recharge groundwater shall not be located within seventy five feet (75') of a
water supply well or a building foundation. A sediment settling basin shall be
provided to remove coarse sediment from stormwater flows before they reach
infiltration basins or trenches. Stormwater shall not be allowed to stand more
than forty eight (48) hours over eighty percent (80%) of a dry basin's bottom
area for the maximum design event to be exfiltrated. The bottom of infiltration
facilities shall be a minimum of four feet (4') above seasonally high
groundwater and bedrock.
      1.   Vegetated Filter Strips And Swales: To effectively filter stormwater
pollutants and promote infiltration of runoff, sites should be designed to
maximize the use of vegetated filter strips and swales. Wherever practicable,
runoff from impervious surfaces should be directed onto filter strips and
swales before being routed to a storm sewer or detention basin.
   M.   Safety Considerations: The drainage system component, especially all
detention basins, shall be designed to protect the safety of any children or
adults coming in contact with the system during runoff events.
      1.   Side Slopes: The side slopes of all detention basins at 100-year
capacity shall be as level as practicable to prevent accidental falls into the
basin and for stability and ease of maintenance. Side slopes of detention
basins and open channels shall not be steeper than four to one (4:1)
(horizontal to vertical). See paragraph F2 of this section for wet bottom
facility side slopes.
      2.   Safety Ledge: All wet detention basins shall have a level safety
ledge at least four feet (4') in width and two and one-half to three feet (2.5
- 3') below the normal water depth.
      3.   Velocity: Velocities throughout the drainage system shall be
controlled to safe and nonerosive levels taking into consideration rates and
depths of flow.
      4.   Overflow Structures: All stormwater detention basins shall be
provided with an overflow structure capable of safely passing excess flows at a
stage at least one foot (1') below the lowest foundation grade in the vicinity
of the detention basin. The design flow rate of the overflow structure shall be
equivalent to the 100-year inflow rate.
   N.   Maintenance Considerations: The stormwater drainage system shall be
designed to minimize and facilitate maintenance. Turfed side slopes shall be
designed to allow lawn mowing equipment to easily negotiate them. Wet basins
shall be provided with alternate outflows which can be used to completely drain
the pool for sediment removal. (Pumping may be considered if drainage by
gravity is not feasible.) Presedimentation basins shall be included, where
feasible, for localizing sediment deposition and removal. Access and access
easements for heavy equipment shall be provided. (Ord., 2-22-1999)
10-10-8: ACCOMMODATING FLOWS FROM UPSTREAM TRIBUTARY AREAS:
Stormwater runoff from areas tributary to the property shall be considered in
the design of the property's drainage system. Whenever practicable, flows from
upstream areas that are not to be detained should be routed around the basin
being provided for the site being developed.
   A.   Upstream Areas Not Meeting Division Requirements: When there are areas
not meeting the storage and release rates of this division, tributary to the
applicant's property, regionalized detention on the applicant's property shall
be explored by the applicant. The following steps shall be followed:
      1.   The applicant shall compute the storage volume needed for his
property using the release rates of section
10-10-6 of this division, the applicant's property area, and the procedures
described in section
10-10-7 of this division;
      2.   Areas tributary to the applicant's property, not meeting the storage
and release rate requirements of this division, shall be identified;
      3.   Using the areas determined in paragraph A2 of this section plus the
applicant's property area, total storage needed for the combined properties
shall be computed;
Allowable release rates shall be computed using the combined property areas.
Storage shall be computed as described in section
10-10-7 of this division. If tributary areas are not developed, a reasonable
fully developed land cover, based on local zoning, shall be assumed for the
purposes of computing storage.
Once the necessary combined storage is computed, the county may choose to pay
for oversizing the applicant's detention basin to accommodate the regional
flows. The applicant's responsibility will be limited to the storage for his
property as computed in paragraph A1 of this section. If regional storage is
selected by the county, then the design produced in paragraph A3 of this
section shall be implemented. If regional storage is rejected by the county,
the applicant shall bypass all tributary area flows around the applicant's
basin whenever practicable. If the applicant must route upstream flows through
his basin and the upstream areas exceed one square mile in size, the applicant
must meet the provisions of paragraph 10-10-7I3 of this division for on stream
basins.
   B.   Upstream Areas Meeting Division Requirements: When there are areas
which meet the storage and release rate requirements of this division,
tributary to the applicant's property, the upstream flows shall be bypassed
around the applicant's detention basin, or be routed through the applicant's
detention basin if this is the only practicable alternative. Storage needed for
the applicant's property shall still be computed as described in paragraph A1
of this section. However, if the county decides to route tributary area flows
through an applicant's basin, the final design stormwater releases shall be
based on the combined total of the applicant's property plus tributary areas.
It must be shown that at no time will the runoff rate from the applicant's
property exceed the allowable release rate for his/her property alone. (Ord.,
2-22-1999)
10-10-9: EARLY COMPLETION OF DETENTION FACILITIES:
Where detention, retention, or depressional storage areas are to be used as
part of the drainage system for a property, they shall be constructed as the
first element of the initial earthwork program. Any eroded sediment captured in
these facilities shall be removed by the applicant before project completion in
order to maintain the design volume of the facilities. (Ord., 2-22-1999)
10-10-10: FEE IN LIEU OF DETENTION:
All single-family residential developments under five (5) acres in size and all
other development under one acre in size shall pay a fee of twelve thousand
dollars ($12,000.00) for each acre-foot of detention which would be required
under this division rather than installing detention facilities on the
property, unless specifically directed to do otherwise by the county engineer.
The county also shall have the option for larger properties of requiring a fee
of twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) for each acre-foot of detention needed
in lieu of the applicant building a basin on site provided the property will
discharge stormwater to the county's, city's, or village's storm sewer system.
In instances where regional benefits and economies of scale can be achieved, it
will be permissible for adjacent properties to utilize a common regional
detention basin. Applicants shall have the option of paying a fee of twelve
thousand dollars ($12,000.00) for each acre-foot of detention required, with
the approval of the county engineer, to the county so that the county can build
regional facilities or the applicant and adjoining properties can jointly build
the necessary facilities themselves. (Ord., 2-22-1999)
10-10-11: MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Maintenance of stormwater drainage facilities located on private
property shall be the responsibility of the owner of that property. Before a
zoning certificate is obtained from the county, the applicant shall execute a
maintenance agreement with the county guaranteeing that the applicant and all
future owners of the property will maintain its stormwater drainage and
sediment control system. The maintenance agreement shall also specifically
authorize representatives of the county to enter onto the property for the
purpose of inspections and maintenance of the drainage system. Such agreement
shall be recorded with the Ogle County recorder. The maintenance agreement
shall include a schedule for regular maintenance of each aspect of the
property's stormwater drainage and sediment control system and shall provide
for access to the system for inspection by authorized personnel of the county.
The maintenance agreement shall also stipulate that if the county engineer
notifies the property owner in writing of maintenance problems which require
correction, the property owner shall make such corrections within thirty (30)
calendar days of such notification. If the corrections are not made within this
time period, the county may have the necessary work completed and assess the
cost to the property owner. The county has the option of requiring a bond to be
filed by the property owner for maintenance of the stormwater drainage system.
   B.   Maintenance of stormwater drainage facilities located on public
property or upon easements dedicated to a public authority shall be the
responsibility of the owner of that public property or public agency to whom
the easement is dedicated. Before a zoning certificate is obtained from the
county, the applicant shall deposit an amount equal to one hundred percent
(100%) of an engineer's estimate of cost to complete the stormwater drainage
facilities into an escrow account administered by the county to be utilized by
that public property owner or public agency for the future maintenance of the
stormwater drainage facilities. (Ord., 2-22-1999)
10-10-12: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Performance Surety: Prior to approval of the drainage plan submitted to
the county, the applicant shall post a performance surety, in a form acceptable
to the county, for an amount equal to an engineer's estimate of cost to
complete the stormwater drainage facilities and sediment control system
approved by the county engineer.
   B.   Construction Inspection Fee: Prior to approval of the drainage plan
submitted to the county, the applicant shall post a fee of four percent (4%) of
the approved engineer's estimate of cost to complete the stormwater drainage
facilities and sediment control system with the county. This fee shall serve to
offset the cost of inspections performed in association with paragraph C of
this section.
   C.   Inspections:
      1.   Inspections During Construction: General site grading shall not
begin until the county engineer has certified in writing to the applicant that
any necessary detention facilities are in place and operational. The county
engineer or his duly authorized representative will also conduct periodic
inspections of the work in progress to be certain that the drainage system is
being built as designed. If any violations of the provisions or requirements of
this division are noted during such inspections, the county engineer shall
notify the applicant in writing of the items needing correction. The applicant
shall have ten (10) calendar days to make such corrections unless given a
specific extension of time in writing by the county engineer. Failure to
complete such corrections within the specified time period shall constitute a
violation of this division and the applicant shall be considered in default of
any performance surety in place with Ogle County.
      2.   Final Inspection: Upon notification by the applicant that the
drainage system is completed, the county engineer or his duly authorized
representative shall conduct a final inspection. If the drainage system is
found to contain deficiencies which require correction, the county engineer or
his duly authorized representative shall notify the applicant of the necessary
corrections. The applicant shall correct such deficiencies within ten (10)
calendar days unless given a specific extension of time in writing by the
county engineer. Failure to make necessary corrections within the specified
time period shall constitute a violation of this division. Upon finding that
the drainage system meets the provisions and requirements of this division the
county engineer shall issue in writing a notice of drainage system completion
to the applicant.
      3.   Routine Inspections: All privately owned drainage systems shall be
inspected by representatives of the county not less often than once per year. A
written report shall be filed of the results of any inspection and a copy sent
to the property owner detailing any problems which need correction.
   D.   Enforcement: The administration and enforcement of this division shall
be the responsibility of the county engineer or his duly authorized
representative(s).
   E.   Appeals: All appeals to the county engineer's decisions regarding the
interpretation of this division shall be heard by the zoning board of appeals.
(Ord., 2-22-1999)
10-10-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, provision or portion of this division is judged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this division shall remain in force and not be affected by such judgment.
(Ord., 2-22-1999)
10-10-14: PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions or requirements of this
division shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each week the violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord., 2-22-1999)
DIVISION 11
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Definitions
10-11-2: Prohibited Acts
10-11-3: Response Authority
10-11-4: Liability For Costs
10-11-5: Defenses
10-11-6: Costs And Penalties
10-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this division, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
COSTS: All costs and expenses of the county incurred with the emergency
response to, prevention, cleanup or abatement of the actual or potential
release of hazardous materials and shall include, but shall not be limited to:
actual labor costs of the county and law enforcement or other emergency
response organization personnel involved in the emergency response to,
prevention, cleanup or abatement of the actual or potential discharge of
hazardous materials (including workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
pension costs and administrative overhead); cost of equipment operation, damage
and loss; cost of materials obtained directly by the county and cost of any
contract labor and materials.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE ORGANIZATIONS: Ogle County emergency response organizations
shall include, but are not limited to, the emergency management agency,
sheriff's department, health department, highway department, coroner's office
or any other organization that assists in bringing the incident to a close.
FACILITY: Any building, structure, installation, equipment, pipe or pipeline
including, but not limited to, any pipe into a sewer or publicly owned
treatment works, well, pond, lagoon, impoundment, ditch, landfill, storage
container, tank, motor vehicle, truck trailer, rolling stock, aircraft. Also,
any site or area where a hazardous material has been deposited, stored,
disposed of, abandoned, placed or otherwise come to be located.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or materials which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristic, is determined by the
county emergency management agency coordinator, or other emergency response
organization personnel to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life,
health, or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, which are toxic, flammable, corrosive, explosive, carcinogenic or
radioactive including, but not limited to, any substance or material which is
designated a hazardous material pursuant to the "hazardous materials
transportation act" (49 USCA section 1801 et seq.) or any other federal or
state law or regulation. This definition shall also include substances believed
to be hazardous, but later determined to be nonhazardous through the efforts of
emergency actions.
MUTUAL AID: Any action taken by the county pursuant to an intergovernmental
agreement.
PERSON: Any individual, business, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
trust, estate, joint venture or other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agent or assign.
RELEASE: Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, escaping, emptying,
discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or disposing of a hazardous material
into or on any land, air, water, well, stream, sewer or pipe so that such
hazardous material or any constituent thereof may enter the environment.
REMEDIAL ACTION: Any action consistent with permanent remedy taken instead of,
or in addition to, removal actions in the event of a release or threatened
release of hazardous materials into the environment to prevent or minimize the
release of hazardous materials so that they do not migrate to cause a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property or the
environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, such actions at the
location of the release as storage, confinement, perimeter protection using
dikes, trenches or ditches, clay cover, neutralization, cleanup of released
hazardous materials or contaminated materials, recycling or reuse, diversion,
destruction, segregation of reactive wastes, repair or replacement of leaking
containers, collection of leachate and runoff, on site treatment or
incineration, provision of alternate water supplies and any monitoring
reasonably required to assure that such actions protect the public health and
welfare and the environment. This also includes any actions deemed necessary by
the emergency management agency coordinator or other emergency response
organization personnel to prevent a discharge of hazardous materials from
occurring at the scene of an accident or incident to which an emergency
response organization has been summoned.
REMOVAL: The cleanup or removal of released hazardous materials from the
environment, such actions, as may be necessary or appropriate to monitor,
assess and evaluate the release or threat of release of hazardous materials,
the disposal of removed material, or the taking of such action as may be
necessary to prevent, minimize or mitigate damage to public health or welfare
of the environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, security fencing,
provision of alternate water supplies, and temporary evacuation of threatened
individuals.
RESPONSE: Any removal or remedial action by personnel and/or equipment of the
county, or other emergency service providers and contractors utilized by the
county in relation to any accident, incident or location within the boundaries
of the county where hazardous materials are being used, stored, transported,
manufactured or dumped and such accident or incident has created an increased
potential for discharge has occurred. (Ord., 3-20-2007)
10-11-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No person shall cause, threaten or allow the release of hazardous materials
into the environment unless such release is in accordance with an appropriate
permit granted by the Illinois environmental protection agency or other state
or federal agency having primary jurisdiction over the release and such release
is in such place and manner as will not create a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health, property or the environment. It shall be
unlawful, whether intentional or unintentional for any person to discharge any
hazardous material into the environment or create a condition or situation
where the potential for a release requires emergency response by the county,
except as otherwise provided and exempted in section
10-11-5 of this division. (Ord., 3-20-2007)
10-11-3: RESPONSE AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Ogle County emergency response organizations and the ranking
emergency response organization personnel or law enforcement officer first on
the scene shall have authority to respond to any release or threatened release
of hazardous materials within the county or affection of the public water
supply, wells or sewage treatment works located within the county. This
authority includes, but is not limited to, remedial action and removal.
   B.   The ranking emergency response organization personnel or law
enforcement officer first on the scene shall have primary authority as the
incident commander to respond to any release or threatened release of hazardous
materials as described above. The ranking emergency response organization
personnel or law enforcement officer first on the scene shall report any
release or threatened release of hazardous materials to all appropriate
federal, state, and local public health, safety and emergency agencies as soon
as possible following any substantial release of hazardous materials. The
ranking emergency response organization personnel or law enforcement officer
first on the scene shall relinquish his response authority at such time, if
any, as the federal, state or local public health, safety or emergency agency
having primary jurisdiction over the release or threatened release has assumed
responsibility for response to the release or threatened release.
   C.   The ranking emergency response organization personnel or law
enforcement officer first on the scene during such time as response authority
is vested in him, shall be authorized to request county personnel and equipment
through the county emergency operations center, if activated, or the emergency
management agency to take such remedial or removal action as he may deem
necessary or appropriate to respond to the release or threatened release of
hazardous material including the use of material and in accordance with any
mutual aid box alarm system (MABAS) agreements.
   D.   All responding personnel shall cooperate with and operate under the
direction of the ranking emergency response organization personnel or law
enforcement officer first on the scene or other person then exercising response
authority under this division until such time as the person exercising such
response authority has determined that the response is complete or
responsibility for response is assumed by the federal, state, or local public
health, safety or emergency agency having primary jurisdiction over the release
or threatened release.
   E.   The person exercising response authority under this division shall
coordinate and/or cooperate with other federal, state, or local public health,
safety or emergency agencies involved in response to the release or threatened
release of hazardous materials. (Ord., 3-20-2007)
10-11-4: LIABILITY FOR COSTS:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision or rule of law, and subject only to
the defenses set forth in section
10-11-5 of this division, the following persons shall be jointly and severally
liable for all costs or removal and remedial action incurred by the county as a
result of a release or threatened release of a hazardous material:
      1.   The owner and operator of a facility or vessel from which there is a
release or substantial threat of release of a hazardous material.
      2.   Any person, who, at time of disposal, transport, storage or
treatment of a hazardous material, owned or operated the facility or vessel
used for such disposal, transport, treatment or storage from which there was a
release or substantial threat of a release of any such hazardous material.
      3.   Any person who by contract, agreement, or otherwise has arranged
with another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal or treatment of
hazardous materials owned, controlled or possessed by such person at a facility
owned or operated by another party or entity from which facility there is a
release or substantial threat of a release of such hazardous materials.
      4.   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous materials for
transport to disposal, storage or treatment facilities or sites from which
there is a release or a substantial threat of release of such hazardous
substances. (Ord., 3-20-2007)
10-11-5: DEFENSES:
There shall be no liability under section
10-11-4 of this division for a person otherwise liable who can establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the release or substantial threat of release
of hazardous materials and the damages resulting therefrom were caused solely
by:
   A.   An act of nature over which he or she had no control;
   B.   An act of war; or
   C.   Any combination of the foregoing.
There shall further be no liability under this division for acts of emergency
response personnel, law enforcement personnel, or other county personnel who
respond to such release or threatened release of hazardous materials and who
aggravate such situation or actually create a new or further release of
hazardous materials in the course of responding to that situation. (Ord., 3-20-
2007)
10-11-6: COSTS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Liability: Any person who is liable for the release or threatened
release of a hazardous material who fails without sufficient cause to pay for
or provide removal or remedial action upon or in accordance with a notice and
request of the county, or in accordance with any order of any court having
jurisdiction on the matter, shall be liable to the county for any costs
incurred by the county as a result of such failure to provide or take such
removal or remedial action, together with the costs of any removal or remedial
action taken by the county in accordance with this division and all attorney
fees and related legal costs incurred in connection therewith.
   B.   Violation: In addition, any such person shall be guilty of a violation
of this division and shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed for each day on which a violation occurs or
continues. Where such violation is found to be the result of wilful and/or
wanton conduct or gross negligence or the person committing such violation
attempts to evade responsibility hereunder by leaving the scene of the
occurrence or by other means, that person shall be subject to a fine as
provided for above or a fine in an amount equal to three (3) times the costs,
including attorney fees and legal costs, for which it is liable under paragraph
A of this section, whichever is greater.
   C.   Charges: Charges for removal or remedial action when rendered by the
county or any agency in accordance with any mutual aid agreement shall be as
follows:
      1.   The costs of the vehicles as determined by the responding agency but
in no case less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) per hour, per vehicle, and
      2.   The cost of all personnel, including any overtime cost to the county
or to any responding agency, incurred as a result of the removal or remedial
action, but in no case less than ten dollars ($10.00) per hour, and
      3.   The cost or replacement of all materials and equipment used,
expended, depleted, destroyed or removed from service in accordance with
federal, state, or local ordinance as a result of the mitigation or containment
operations if or at the request of the county or any responding agency, and
      4.   The costs of service and/or goods provided by a private or public
entity which are used, expended, depleted or destroyed as a result of the
response.
   D.   Payment: The person or persons, firm, corporation or other entity
responsible for and liable for the costs of such hazardous materials incident
shall submit payment for the invoice to the Ogle County emergency management
agency within thirty (30) days of receipt of the invoice. Failure of the
responsible party to pay the invoice in full within thirty (30) days shall
cause the county to seek enforcement of the debt through collection, or civil
lawsuit, or property lien, or any combination of the foregoing. The responsible
party shall assume all costs for the enforcement of the debt, including court
costs and attorney fees in addition to the original charges and any interest
that may have occurred. (Ord., 3-20-2007)
CHAPTER 12
TRAFFIC AND VEHICLE REGULATIONS
Watercraft Operation On Floodwaters   1
General Traffic And Vehicle Provisions   2
Watercraft Operation In Public Waters   3
Seized And Impounded Vehicles   4
DIVISION 1
WATERCRAFT OPERATION ON FLOODWATERS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title And Intent
12-1-2: Definitions
12-1-3: Enforcement By Sheriff
12-1-4: Operation Of Motorboats Restricted
12-1-5: Penalty
12-1-1: TITLE AND INTENT:
This division shall be known as the OPERATION OF WATERCRAFT ON FLOODWATERS
ORDINANCE. It is the public policy of Ogle County to promote the safety of
persons and property in and connected with the use and operation of watercraft
and to preserve and protect the rights and property of persons owning real
estate adjacent to the Rock River. This division shall apply to the public
waters of those parts of the Rock River located in Ogle County not under the
jurisdiction of any municipality. (1982 Code)
12-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this division, unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning:
COUNTY: Ogle County, state of Illinois.
MOTORBOAT: Any vessel propelled by machinery, whether or not such machinery is
the principal source of propulsion, but does not include a vessel which has a
valid marine document issued by the bureau of customs of the U.S. government or
any federal agency successor thereto.
MUNICIPALITY: A city, village or incorporated town in the county of Ogle,
Illinois.
OPERATE: To navigate or otherwise use a motorboat.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association or other
entity. (1982 Code)
12-1-3: ENFORCEMENT BY SHERIFF:
The sheriff of Ogle County is authorized and directed to enforce federal orders
declaring closure of the Rock River issued by the captain of the Port Of
Chicago or other authorized federal agency, which order affects the public
waters of those parts of the Rock River located within Ogle County and which
are not under the jurisdiction of any municipality. (1982 Code)
12-1-4: OPERATION OF MOTORBOATS RESTRICTED:
No person shall operate a motorboat upon the public waters of those parts of
Rock River located within Ogle County not under the jurisdiction of any
municipality at a time during which there is in effect a river closure order
issued by the captain of the Port Of Chicago, or other authorized federal
agency. (1982 Code)
12-1-5: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of section
12-1-4 of this division shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00). (1982 Code)
DIVISION 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC AND VEHICLE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Speed Limits
12-2-2: Unsafe Driving
12-2-3: Offenses Relating To Vehicles
12-2-4: Criminal Trespass To Vehicles
12-2-5: Parking On County Property
12-2-6: Railroad Crossings
12-2-1: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Forty Five Miles Per Hour: The Ogle County superintendent of highways
shall be instructed and authorized to erect in the following described zone
forty five (45) mile per hour speed limit signs, properly posted in conformance
with the "Illinois Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices":
County Highway 6, Pines Road, from the intersection of Anterier Road and Pines
Road at the west limits to the intersection of Forest Road and Pines Road at
the east limits a distance of approximately eight-tenths (0.8) mile. (1982
Code)
12-2-2: UNSAFE DRIVING:
Any person who, while driving a motor vehicle, knowingly causes the tires to
squeal when accelerating or braking, or drives from roadside to roadside on or
adjacent to the roadway or into the opposite lane of traffic in a careless or
reckless manner commits unsafe driving. The penalty for a violation of this
section is a fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (1982 Code)
12-2-3: OFFENSES RELATING TO VEHICLES:
It is a violation of this section for:
   A.   A person, without authority to do so, to damage a vehicle or to damage
or remove any part or component of a vehicle;
   B.   A person, without authority to do so, to tamper with a vehicle or go in
it, on it, or work or attempt to work any of its parts of components, or set or
attempt to set it in motion;
   C.   A person to make a false report of the theft or conversion of a vehicle
to any police officer of this state;
   D.   A person to buy, receive, possess, sell or dispose of a vehicle or any
component part of a vehicle if the manufacturer's identification number thereon
has been removed or falsified, and such person has no knowledge that the number
is removed or falsified.
The penalty for a violation of this section is a fine of not less than one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(1982 Code)
12-2-4: CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO VEHICLES:
Whoever knowingly and without authority enters any vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft or any part thereof of another without his consent commits criminal
trespass to vehicles. The penalty for a violation of this section is a fine of
not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (1982 Code)
12-2-5: PARKING ON COUNTY PROPERTY:
The following are parking regulations for county parking lots for the
courthouse and jail:
   A.   No person shall park any vehicle in a county courthouse parking lot
unless such vehicle be parked, head in, in a designated parking space,
completely between the parallel yellow diagonal lines. It shall be unlawful for
any person to park partially but not wholly within the designated areas. Any
deviation from the above shall constitute a violation of this section unless
otherwise provided.
   B.   Signs shall be posted at specific parking spaces designating what
limits shall be imposed on that parking space or spaces. Any noncompliance with
the terms of the posted sign shall constitute a violation of this section
unless otherwise provided.
   C.   Certain spaces may be designated as "limited time" parking spaces. Such
spaces may be designated as ten (10) minutes only or fifteen (15) minutes only
parking spaces. A sign shall indicate the maximum length of time a vehicle may
occupy a time restricted space. No vehicle shall be stopped or parked in a
limited time space in excess of the posted maximum amount of time between the
hours of eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. and four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M.
on days when the courthouse is open for business. Any deviation from the above
shall constitute a violation of this section.
   D.   Certain spaces shall be designated by sign, as "restricted use" spaces.
A sign shall be posted at each said space designating the sole occupant of that
space. The person occupying the office to which that space is allocated is the
sole authorized user of said space. The spaces assigned to the sheriff, squad
cars, state's attorney, circuit judges, county coroner, county clerk, and the
circuit clerk shall be reserved twenty four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a
week. All other assigned spaces shall be reserved and their use restricted
between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on days when the
courthouse is open. Any deviation from the above shall constitute a violation
of this section.
   E.   Spaces designated as reserved for handicapped parking shall be so
reserved between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on days
when the courthouse is open. Any deviation from the above shall constitute a
violation of this section.
   F.   It shall be the duty of the Ogle County sheriff's department, acting in
accordance with the instructions issued herein to report:
      1.   The parking of any vehicle in violation of any of the provisions of
these regulations.
      2.   The license number of such vehicle.
      3.   The time and date such vehicle was parked in violation of any of the
provisions of these regulations.
      4.   The section of these regulations which has been violated and any
other facts or knowledge which is necessary for a thorough understanding of the
circumstances attending such violation.
The above mentioned information shall be reported to the state's attorney. The
officer shall remit his copy of the parking citation to the state's attorney's
office.
   G.   It shall be the duty of each deputy or sheriff to attach to such
vehicle a notice to the owner or operator thereof that such vehicle has been
parking in violation of this section and instruct such owner or operator to
forthwith remit payment of the parking violation, in accordance with the
schedule set out below; and to remit a copy of ticket to the circuit clerk.
   H.   A violation of any of the provisions of this section is subject to any
of the following penalties:
      1.   A fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00). If this fine is not paid
within forty eight (48) hours, it is automatically increased to fifty dollars
($50.00); and/or
      2.   The vehicle may be towed away and stored at the owner's expense.
   I.   Any vehicle left unattended or unmoved for twenty four (24) hours shall
be considered abandoned and the vehicle may be towed away and stored at the
owner's expense.
   J.   If a vehicle has been towed away, the owner or operator of such vehicle
shall be liable for all towing, storage, and other costs related to the removal
of such vehicle from the county lot.
   K.   Fines may be paid in person to the clerk of the circuit court during
courthouse business hours or through the mail, by money order or certified
cashier's check, by sending it to:
         Clerk Of The Circuit Court
         P.O. Box 337
         Oregon, IL 61061
      No personal checks will be accepted as payment for fines. (Res., 2-19-
1985)
12-2-6: RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
   A.   Adoption Of State Law: All provisions of the safety requirements for
railroad operations 1 , shall be hereby made part of this chapter insofar as
the provisions of such law pertain to the county.
   B.   Obstruction Of Highway At Grade Crossing Prohibited: It is unlawful for
a rail carrier to permit any train, railroad car or engine to obstruct public
travel at a railroad-highway grade crossing for a period in excess of ten (10)
minutes, except where such train or railroad car is continuously moving or
cannot be moved by reason of circumstances over which the rail carrier has no
reasonable control.
      However, no employee acting under the rules or orders of the rail carrier
or its supervisory personnel may be prosecuted for a violation of this
paragraph.
   C.   Penalty For Obstruction Of Grade Crossing: Any rail carrier violating
paragraph B of this section shall be guilty of a petty offense and fine is
affixed of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) if the duration of the obstruction is in excess of
ten (10) minutes but no longer than fifteen (15) minutes. If the duration of
the obstruction exceeds fifteen (15) minutes the violation shall be a business
offense and the following fines shall be imposed:
      If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of fifteen (15) minutes
but no longer than twenty (20) minutes, the fine shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00);
      If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of twenty (20) minutes
but no longer than twenty five (25) minutes, the fine shall be seven hundred
dollars ($700.00);
      If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of twenty five (25)
minutes but no longer than thirty (30) minutes, the fine shall be nine hundred
dollars ($900.00);
      If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of thirty (30) minutes
but no longer than thirty five (35) minutes, the fine shall be one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00);
      If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of thirty five (35)
minutes, the fine shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) plus an additional
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each five (5) minutes of obstruction in
excess of thirty five (35) minutes of obstructing. (Ord., 4-18-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/18c-7402.
DIVISION 3
WATERCRAFT OPERATION IN PUBLIC WATERS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Title
12-3-2: Purpose
12-3-3: Construction
12-3-4: Definitions
12-3-5: Enforcement By Sheriff
12-3-6: Areas; Designated
12-3-7: Speed Limit
12-3-8: Violations And Penalties
12-3-9: Severability
12-3-10: Saving Clause
12-3-11: Effective Date
12-3-1: TITLE:
This division shall be known, cited and referred to as the NO WAKE ORDINANCE OF
OGLE COUNTY. (Ord., 7-20-1993)
12-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this division is to protect and promote the public health and
safety by regulating the operations of any boat through the creation of "no
wake" areas upon Rock River pursuant to the legal and contractually assigned
jurisdiction of the county of Ogle, Illinois. (Ord., 7-20-1993)
12-3-3: CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of this division, the definitions herein shall be observed
and applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   A.   Words in the present tense shall include the future, words in the
singular number shall include the plural, and plural number shall include the
singular number.
   B.   The words "shall" or "will" are mandatory and not discretionary.
   C.   The word "may" is permissive or discretionary.
   D.   The words not defined shall be interpreted in accordance with the
definitions contained in "Webster's Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary". (Ord., 7-
20-1993)
12-3-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this division, the words and phrases listed hereunder have
the meanings designated herein, except when a particular context clearly
requires a different meaning:
COUNTY: The county of Ogle, Illinois.
MOTORBOAT: Any vessel propelled by machinery, whether or not such machinery is
the principal source of propulsion, but does not include a vessel which has a
valid marine document issued by the bureau of customs of the United States
government or any federal agency successor thereto.
MUNICIPALITY: A city, village or incorporated town in the county of Ogle,
Illinois.
OPERATE: To navigate or otherwise use a motorboat or vessel.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association or the
entity.
VESSEL OR WATERCRAFT: Every description of watercraft, other than a seaplane on
the water, used or capable of being used as means for transportation on water.
(Ord., 7-20-1993)
12-3-5: ENFORCEMENT BY SHERIFF:
The sheriff shall be authorized to declare a "no wake" area under the following
conditions:
   A.   In order to protect the life, liberty or property of any person
operating a watercraft upon the Rock River, or
   B.   When a regatta, watercraft sporting event or other motorboat races on
the Rock River necessitate for safety purposes that "no wake" areas be marked,
or
   C.   When flooding or other adverse weather conditions on the Rock River
necessitate for safety purposes that "no wake" areas be marked. (Ord., 7-20-
1993)
12-3-6: AREAS; DESIGNATED:
A "no wake" area declared pursuant to section
12-3-5 of this division shall be clearly posted with buoys or signs by the Ogle
County sheriff's department under the authority of the Ogle County sheriff.
(Ord., 7-20-1993)
12-3-7: SPEED LIMIT:
No person shall operate a motorboat at a speed exceeding five (5) miles per
hour while traveling in a "no wake" area. (Ord., 7-20-1993)
12-3-8: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating section
12-3-7 of this division, or of neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the
provisions hereof, shall be guilty of a petty offense, punishable by a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord., 7-20-1993)
12-3-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any provisions of this division or the application thereof is held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
such ruling shall not affect any other provisions of this division not
specifically included in such ruling or which can be given effect without the
unconstitutional or invalid provision or application; and to this end, the
provisions of this division are declared severable. (Ord., 7-20-1993)
12-3-10: SAVING CLAUSE:
Nothing herein adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding now
pending in any court or any rights accrued or liability incurred or any causes
or action accrued or existing under any prior resolution or ordinance. Nor
shall any right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by
this division. (Ord., 7-20-1993)
12-3-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This division shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its adoption
as provided by law. (Ord., 7-20-1993)
DIVISION 4
SEIZED AND IMPOUNDED VEHICLES
SECTION:
12-4-1: Title
12-4-2: Purpose
12-4-3: Construction
12-4-4: Definitions
12-4-5: Vehicles Subject To Impoundment
12-4-6: Administrative Fee
12-4-7: Commencement Of Impoundment
12-4-8: Notice Of Seizure And Impoundment
12-4-9: Cash Bond
12-4-10: Admission Of Liability
12-4-11: Administrative Hearing
12-4-12: Defenses
12-4-13: Hearing Officer Fee
12-4-14: Administrative Review Law
12-4-15: Enforcement
12-4-16: Abandoned Vehicles
12-4-1: TITLE:
This division shall be known, cited and referred to as the VEHICLE IMPOUND
ORDINANCE OF OGLE COUNTY. (Ord. 2011-1008, 10-19-2011)
12-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this division is to offset the costs incurred in the preparing,
prosecuting, hearing, and disposing of criminal and traffic cases, and recover
the costs associated with the towing, impounding, or seizing of motor vehicles
used during the commission of criminal, traffic, or other offenses within the
county of Ogle, outside the corporate limits of any municipality. (Ord. 2011-
1008, 10-19-2011)
12-4-3: CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of this division, the definitions hereunder shall be
observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense; words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number; words used in the
masculine gender shall include the female gender; and such inclusive words
shall be reciprocal.
   B.   The word "may" is permissive or discretionary.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary. (Ord. 2011-1008,
10-19-2011)
12-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this division, the words and phrases listed hereunder have
the meanings designated herein, except when a particular context clearly
requires a different meaning:
COUNTY: The county of Ogle, Illinois.
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Every officer authorized to make arrests and issue
citations for criminal and traffic offenses occurring within the county.
LESSEE: The person authorized by a written lease agreement to possess the
vehicle and as properly registered with the Illinois secretary of state, or if
registered in a state other than Illinois, as properly registered with the
administrative agency responsible for registration in that state.
PERSON: An individual, firm, organization, public or private corporation,
government, partnership or unincorporated association.
REGISTERED OWNER: The record titleholder(s) of the vehicle as properly
registered with the Illinois secretary of state, or if registered in a state
other than Illinois, record titleholder as properly registered with the
administrative agency responsible for registration in that state. (Ord. 2011-
1008, 10-19-2011)
12-4-5: VEHICLES SUBJECT TO IMPOUNDMENT:
Any motor vehicle, regardless of whether the registered owner or lessee is
operating said vehicle, within the County of Ogle, State of Illinois, and
outside the corporate limits of any municipality, shall be subject to seizure
and impoundment under this section, anytime said vehicle is used in connection
with one or more of the following offenses:
   A.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the commission
of, or in the attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be
seized and forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 1961, as
now enacted and as amended from time to time; or
   B.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501, as now enacted and as amended from
time to time; or
   C.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the commission
of, or in the attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis
Control Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550 et seq., as now enacted and as
amended from time to time; or
   D.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the commission
of, or in the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570 et seq., as now
enacted and as amended from time to time; or
   E.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the commission
of, or in the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of section 24-1, 24-
1.5, or 24-3.1 of the Criminal Code of 1961, as now enacted and as amended from
time to time; or
   F.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-303, as now enacted and as amended from time to time; except that
vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is
for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure to comply with
emission testing; or
   G.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with soliciting,
possessing, or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled
substance, as defined by the Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, as now enacted and as amended from time to time; or
   H.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's license,
in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, as now enacted and as
amended from time to time, if the period of expiration is greater than one
year; or
   I.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit, in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
101, as now enacted and as amended from time to time, or operating a motor
vehicle without ever having been issued a driver's license or permit due to a
person's age; or
   J.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a Circuit Clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, 5/6-303, or 5/
11-501, as now enacted and as amended from time to time; or
   K.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the commission
of, or in the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 or 16A
of the Criminal Code of 1961, as now enacted and as amended from time to time;
or
   L.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, the offense of fleeing to elude a police officer, in
violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-204.1, as now enacted and as
amended from time to time; or
   M.   Any other offense now codified or subsequently enacted, that directs or
authorizes a law enforcement officer to seize, impound, or tow the motor
vehicle in question. (Ord. 2011-1008, 10-19-2011)
12-4-6: ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
An administrative fee in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be
imposed on the registered owner or lessee of any motor vehicle impounded under
this division. (Ord. O-2018-1002, 10-16-2018)
   A.   Said fee is to serve as a proxy for the actual administrative costs
incurred by the County and County agencies as the result of towing and
impounding of vehicles, and the preparing, prosecuting, hearing, and disposing
of criminal or traffic cases involving the use of motor vehicles.
   B.   The administrative fee shall be in addition to: 1) any other penalties
that may be assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations; 2) any
towing or storage fees, or both, charged by the towing company; and 3) any
hearing officer fee imposed under section
12-4-13 of this division.
   C.   If there exists more than one registered owner or lessee of the vehicle
in question, each registered owner or lessee shall be jointly and severally
liable to the county for the administrative fee. (Ord. 2011-1008, 10-19-2011)
   D.   Any funds collected under this division as an administrative fee shall
be deposited to the sheriff's tow fund, as established by the Ogle County
board, and shall be used for law enforcement related activities limited to the
purchase, repair or maintenance of police vehicles, vehicle equipment, or fuel.
The purchase of police vehicles, while at the discretion of the sheriff, shall
be done only with the advice and consent of the county board committee to which
the sheriff's general fund budget is reviewed on a regular, monthly basis.
Monthly reports of expenditures from the tow fund will be made to the same
committee at its regular monthly meetings. (Ord. 2014-0202, 2-18-2014)
12-4-7: COMMENCEMENT OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Whenever a law enforcement officer has probable cause to believe that a motor
vehicle is subject to impoundment, under section
12-4-5 of this division, the officer shall provide for the towing of the
vehicle to a facility authorized by the county. Said vehicle shall be impounded
and held until such time the administrative fee is paid or the vehicle is
subject to release under the provisions of this division. (Ord. 2011-1008, 10-
19-2011)
12-4-8: NOTICE OF SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
Upon seizure and impoundment, the law enforcement officer shall provide notice
as directed under this section.
   A.   Initial Notice: At the time the vehicle is towed, the officer shall
notify, or make a reasonable attempt to notify, the registered owner, lessee,
or person identifying himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle,
or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged offense, of the fact of the seizure, and of the registered owner's or
lessee's right to an administrative hearing.
      1.   Any notice under this section shall be in writing, and said notice
shall indicate that the motor vehicle will remain impounded pending the
completion of an administrative hearing, unless the registered owner, lessee,
or a lienholder of record posts, with the sheriff, a bond equal to the
administrative fee and hearing officer fee, as provided by section
12-4-9 of this division, and pays for all towing and storage charges.
      2.   Said notice shall inform the recipient of the right to an
administrative hearing, and shall provide instructions on the exercise of that
right.
   B.   Owner Is Passenger Or Driver: If a registered owner or lessee is found
to be a passenger or driver of any vehicle seized under this division, then he
or she shall be personally served with written notice under this section.
   C.   Owner Is Not Passenger Or Driver: If no registered owner or lessee is
found to be a passenger or driver of any vehicle seized under this division,
then the written notice shall be served on the registered owner or lessee,
either by personal service or by first class mail, to the address as registered
with the secretary of state.
      1.   All notices shall be served upon the registered owner or lessee
within five (5) days after a vehicle is seized and impounded; and
      2.   Said notice shall indicate that the motor vehicle will remain
impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless the
registered owner, lessee, or a lienholder of record posts, with the sheriff, a
bond equal to the administrative fee and hearing officer fee as provided by
section
12-4-9 of this division, and pays for all towing and storage charges. (Ord.
2011-1008, 10-19-2011)
12-4-9: CASH BOND:
The registered owner, lessee, or a lienholder of record of any vehicle seized
pursuant to this division may retrieve the vehicle seized prior to the
evidentiary hearing by posting a cash bond at the Ogle County sheriff's office,
in addition to the payment of applicable towing and storage fees.
   A.   The bond shall be an amount totaling the administrative fee and hearing
officer fee established in sections
12-4-6 and
12-4-13 of this division.
   B.   Upon posting of bond, the vehicle shall be released to the registered
owner, lessee, or the lienholder of record who posted said bond.
   C.   Any bond posted under this section shall be retained by Ogle County
sheriff, until the disposition of the administrative hearing held under section
12-4-11 of this division. (Ord. 2011-1008, 10-19-2011)
12-4-10: ADMISSION OF LIABILITY:
The registered owner or lessee of any vehicle seized pursuant to this division
may retrieve the vehicle seized prior to the evidentiary hearing by admitting
liability to the county for the administrative fee, and, in addition to the
payment of applicable towing and storage fees, remits the full amount of the
administrative fee established in section
12-4-6 of this division. Said admission of liability shall be deemed a waiver
of the administrative hearing, and upon the entry of an admission of liability,
any administrative hearing scheduled shall be waived and canceled. (Ord. 2011-
1008, 10-19-2011)
12-4-11: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
Subject to the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3, and in
a manner consistent with other statutes or ordinances regulating administrative
hearings, a registered owner or lessee may request an administrative hearing to
review the imposition of the administrative fee under this division.
   A.   Request For Hearing: A registered owner or lessee of any vehicle seized
pursuant to this division may request a hearing within ten (10) business days
of the date of seizure and impoundment.
      1.   All requests for hearing shall be in writing and must include the
following:
         a.   The name of the registered owner or lessee making the request for
hearing;
         b.   The name of any registered owner or lessee having an interest in
the seized vehicle;
         c.   The make, model, and registration number of the vehicle seized;
         d.   The date and location of the seizure; and
         e.   The identity of the driver who was operating or in control of the
vehicle at the time of seizure.
   B.   Waiver Of Hearing: Unless the registered owner or lessee properly
delivers a request for hearing within the time allowed under this section, said
hearing shall be deemed waived, and any right to an administrative hearing
shall be forfeited.
   C.   Notice Of Administrative Hearing: Upon receiving a request for hearing,
the sheriff shall provide written notice that the motor vehicle will remain
impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless the
registered owner, lessee, or a lienholder of record posts, with the sheriff, a
bond equal to the administrative fee and hearing officer fee, as provided by
section
12-4-9 of this division, and pays for all towing and storage charges.
      1.   This written notice shall be served upon the registered owner,
lessee, and any lienholder of record;
      2.   The written notice shall be served either by personal service or by
first class mail to the address as registered with the secretary of state;
      3.   All notices shall be served upon the registered owner, lessee, and
any lienholder of record within five (5) business days after the request for
hearing is received; and
      4.   The written notice shall contain the date, time, and location of the
administrative hearing. An initial hearing shall be scheduled not less than
seven (7) days and no more than forty five (45) days after the date of the
mailing of the notice of hearing.
   D.   Administrative Hearing Officer: The administrative hearing shall be
conducted by a hearing officer designated by the county, who is an attorney
licensed to practice law in this state for a minimum of three (3) years.
   E.   Responsibility For Cost: The party challenging the imposition of the
administrative fee shall be responsible for the costs associated with use of
the administrative hearing officer, as described in section
12-4-13 of this division.
   F.   Appearance: The party challenging the hearing must appear personally or
through a licensed attorney. A failure of the challenging party to appear shall
result in a default ruling sustaining the vehicle impoundment.
   G.   Reasonable Opportunity: All interested persons shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing.
   H.   Rules: The formal rules of evidence shall not apply and hearsay
evidence shall be admissible.
   I.   Burden: The burden shall be on the party challenging the administrative
fee to prove one of the available defenses by preponderance of the evidence.
   J.   Written Decision: At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the
hearing officer shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling
the vehicle impoundment.
   K.   Bond Forfeited: If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained
by the administrative hearing officer, any administrative fee, hearing officer
fee, or bond posted to secure the release of the vehicle shall be forfeited to
the county.
   L.   Fees To Be Paid: Unless the administrative hearing officer overturns
the basis for the vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the
registered owner, lessee, or lienholder of record until all administrative
fees, hearing officer fees, and towing and storage charges are paid.
   M.   Vehicle Release: If the administrative hearing officer overturns the
basis for the vehicle impound, the vehicle shall be released to the registered
owner, lessee, or lienholder of record challenging such fee, provided all
towing and storage charges are paid. The administrative hearing officer does
not have the authority to waive towing and storage charges. (Ord. 2011-1008,
10-19-2011)
12-4-12: DEFENSES:
At any hearing reviewing the imposition of the administrative fee, the
administrative hearing officer shall only consider defenses recognized by this
section.
   A.   There shall only be three (3) recognized defenses to the imposition of
the administrative fee:
      1.   The vehicle was stolen at the time the illegal item was found in the
vehicle, and the theft was reported within twenty four (24) hours after the
theft was discovered or reasonably should have been discovered;
      2.   The vehicle was operating as a common carrier and the violation
occurred without the knowledge of the person in control of the vehicle; or
      3.   The vehicle was not used in connection with an offense described in
section
12-4-5 of this division.
   B.   Notwithstanding the limitations set forth in paragraph A of this
section, the following circumstances shall not constitute a defense to the
imposition of the administrative fee:
      1.   The registered owner, lessee, or lienholder of record was not the
driver of the vehicle during the commission of the offense in question;
      2.   Any criminal charge related to the incident giving rise to the
impoundment has been adjudicated not guilty;
      3.   Any criminal charge related to the incident giving rise to the
impoundment has been dismissed or otherwise disposed of; or
      4.   Any other circumstance not specified in paragraph A of this section.
(Ord. 2011-1008, 10-19-2011)
12-4-13: HEARING OFFICER FEE:
The party challenging the imposition of the administrative fee shall be
responsible for the costs associated with use of the administrative hearing
officer. Said fee shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), and shall be
used to pay for the costs associated with the use of the administrative hearing
officer, subject to the following:
   A.   If the party challenging the imposition of the administrative fee posts
bond under section
12-4-9 of this division, the hearing officer fee must be included in said bond.
   B.   If the registered owner or lessee of any vehicle seized pursuant to
this division admits liability under section
12-4-10 of this division, provided said admission occurs more than forty eight
(48) hours prior to the scheduled administrative hearing, no hearing officer
fee shall be assessed. A failure to admit liability and waive the
administrative hearing in a timely manner will result in the imposition of the
hearing officer fee on the registered owner of the motor vehicle in question.
   C.   If no admission of liability or waiver of administrative hearing is
received prior to the deadline described in paragraph B of this section, the
hearing officer fee shall be imposed on the registered owner of the motor
vehicle in question.
   D.   If the Administrative Hearing Officer overturns the basis for the
vehicle impound, no Hearing Officer fee shall be assessed, and any previously
posted Hearing Officer fee shall be refunded.
   E.   Every registered owner of the subject vehicle shall be jointly and
severally liable to the County for any Hearing Officer fee imposed under this
division. (Ord. 2011-1008, 10-19-2011)
12-4-14: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW:
All administrative hearing rulings shall be subject to review under the
provisions of the Administrative Review Law, as codified at 735 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq. (Ord. 2011-1008, 10-19-2011)
12-4-15: ENFORCEMENT:
Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any administrative fee
imposed under this division which remains unpaid in whole or in part after the
expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review under the Administrative
Review Law may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court
of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2011-1008, 10-19-2011)
12-4-16: ABANDONED VEHICLES:
Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility within ten
(10) days after the vehicle was impounded with no payment being received or
from the date a written decision was made by an Administrative Hearing Officer
shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of
article II of chapter 4 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. O-2018-1002, 10-16-
2018)
CHAPTER 14
LAND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
General Provisions   1
Rules And Definitions   2
Subdivision Application Procedure And Approval Process   3
Requirements For Improvements, Reservations, And Design   4
Open Space Subdivisions   5
School Land Dedication   6
Land Readjustment   7
DIVISION 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
14-1-1: Title
14-1-2: Policy
14-1-3: Purposes
14-1-4: Enactment
14-1-5: Jurisdiction
14-1-6: Interpretation, Conflict And Separability
14-1-7: Saving Provision
14-1-8: Reservations And Repeals
14-1-9: Amendments
14-1-10: Public Purpose
14-1-11: Variances, Exceptions And Waiver Of Conditions
14-1-12: Enforcement, Violations And Penalties
14-1-13: Administrative Officers
14-1-14: Suitability Of Land For Development
14-1-15: Dedication Of Land
14-1-16: Proposals For Planned Development Districts
14-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations (this chapter) shall officially be known, cited, and referred
to as the LAND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS OF OGLE COUNTY, ILLINOIS (hereinafter
"these regulations"). (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-1-2: POLICY:
   A.   It is declared to be the policy of the county to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat as
subject to the control of the county pursuant to the official comprehensive
plan of the county for the orderly, planned, efficient, and economical
development of the county.
   B.   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire,
flood, or other menace, and land shall not be subdivided until adequate public
facilities and improvements exist and proper provision has been made for
drainage, water, sewerage, and capital improvements such as schools, parks,
recreational facilities, transportation facilities, and improvements.
   C.   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the proposals shown in the comprehensive plan, and it is
intended that these regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement
of the provisions and standards contained in the Ogle County amendatory zoning
ordinance and the comprehensive plan.
   D.   Land that has been subdivided prior to the effective date of these
regulations should, whenever possible, be brought within the scope of these
regulations to further the purposes of regulation(s) identified in section
14-1-3 of this division. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-1-3: PURPOSES:
These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the county.
   B.   To guide the future growth and development of the county in accordance
with the comprehensive plan.
   C.   To provide for adequate light, air, and privacy, to secure safety from
fire, flood, and other danger, and to prevent overcrowding of the land and
undue congestion of population.
   D.   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the county and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of
the county through appropriate growth management techniques assuring the timing
and sequencing of development, promotion of infill development in existing
neighborhoods and nonresidential areas with adequate public facilities, to
assure proper urban form and open space separation of urban areas, to protect
environmentally critical areas and areas premature for urban development.
   E.   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the county and the
value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings.
   F.   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
playground, recreation, and other public requirements and facilities.
   G.   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the county, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building lines.
   H.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land, and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land.
   I.   To ensure that public facilities and services are available concurrent
with development and will have a sufficient capacity to serve the proposed
subdivision and that the community will be required to bear no more than its
fair share of the cost of providing the facilities and services through
requiring the developer to pay fees, furnish land, or establish mitigation
measures to ensure that the development provides its fair share of capital
facilities needs generated by the development.
   J.   To prevent the pollution of air, streams, and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table, and to encourage
the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the county in order
to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the community and the value
of the land.
   K.   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the county and to
ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural features.
   L.   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout
of the land while preserving the density of development as established in the
zoning ordinance of the county.
   M.   To ensure that land is subdivided only when subdivision is necessary to
provide for uses of land for which market demand exists and which are in the
public interest.
   N.   To remedy the problems associated with inappropriately subdivided
lands, including premature subdivision, excess subdivision, partial or
incomplete subdivision, scattered and low grade subdivision. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-1-4: ENACTMENT:
In order that land may be subdivided in accordance with these purposes and
policies, these subdivision regulations are hereby adopted and made effective
as of January 1, 2001. All applications for subdivision approval pending on the
effective date of these regulations shall be reviewed under these regulations
except that these regulations will not apply if preliminary plat approval was
obtained prior to the effective date of these regulations. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-1-5: JURISDICTION:
   A.   These regulations apply to all subdivision of land, as defined in
section
14-2-3, "Words And Terms Defined", of this chapter, located within the borders
of Ogle County and outside the corporate limits of any municipality. However,
if a subdivision of land is located outside, but within one and one-half (11/2)
miles of, any municipality having adopted an official comprehensive plan and
ordinance regulating the subdivision of land, corporate approval shall be
required in addition to county approval, and the more restrictive of municipal
or county regulations shall apply.
   B.   Until a preliminary plat and plan for a subdivision are approved:
      1.   No land described in this section shall be subdivided, nor any
street laid out, nor any improvements made to the natural land.
      2.   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale, nor shall any contract for sale or option be made or given.
      3.   No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater
drainage, sanitary sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service,
lighting, grading, paving, or surfacing of streets, shall hereafter be made by
any owner or owners of his or their agent or by any public service corporation
at the request of such owner or owners or his or their agent. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-1-6: INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY:
   A.   Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, and general welfare. These regulations
shall be construed broadly to promote the purposes for which they are adopted.
      1.   Public Provisions: These regulation are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or
other provision of law except as provided in these regulations. Where any
provision of these regulations imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any other ordinance,
rule or regulation, or other provision of law, the provision which is more
restrictive or imposes higher standards shall control.
      2.   Private Provisions: These regulations are not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction, provided
that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or regulations than such easement, covenant, or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern.
   B.   Separability: If any part or provision of these regulations or the
application of these regulations to any person or circumstances is adjudged
invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the judgment shall be confined
in its operation to the part, provision, or application directly involved in
the controversy in which the judgment shall be rendered and it shall not affect
or impair the validity of the remainder of these regulations or the application
of them to other persons or circumstances. The county board hereby declares
that it would have enacted the remainder of these regulations even without any
such part, provision, or application which is judged invalid. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-1-7: SAVING PROVISION:
These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the county under any section or provision existing at
the time of adoption of these regulations, or as vacating or annulling any
rights obtained by any person, firm, or corporation by lawful action of the
county except as shall be expressly provided for in these regulations. (Ord.,
9-19-2000)
14-1-8: RESERVATIONS AND REPEALS:
Upon the adoption of these regulations according to law, the subdivision
regulations of Ogle County, Illinois, adopted January 21, 1992, as amended, are
hereby repealed, except as to those sections expressly retained in these
regulations. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-1-9: AMENDMENTS:
For the purpose of protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare,
the committee may from time to time propose amendments to these regulations
which shall then be approved or disapproved by the county board at a public
meeting following public notice. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-1-10: PUBLIC PURPOSE:
Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated
by the state to the county. The developer has the duty of compliance with
reasonable conditions laid down by the county for design, dedication,
improvement, and restrictive use of the land to conform to the physical and
economic development of the county and to the health, safety, and general
welfare of the future lot owners in the subdivision and of the community at
large. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-1-11: VARIANCES, EXCEPTIONS AND WAIVER OF CONDITIONS:
   A.   General: Where the committee finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations
and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by
an alternative proposal, it may approve variances, exceptions, and waiver of
conditions to these subdivision regulations so that substantial justice may be
done and the public interest secured, provided that the variance, exception, or
waiver conditions shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and
purpose of these regulations; and further provided the committee shall not
approve variances, exceptions, and waiver of conditions unless it shall make
findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      1.   The granting of the variance, exception, or waiver of conditions
will not be detrimental to the public safety, health, or welfare or injurious
to other property;
      2.   The conditions upon which the request is based are unique to the
property for which the relief is sought and are not applicable generally to
other property;
      3.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations is carried out;
      4.   The relief sought will not in any manner vary the provisions of the
amendatory zoning ordinance, comprehensive plan or special flood hazard areas
ordinance except that those documents may be amended in the manner prescribed
by law.
   B.   Conditions: In approving variances, exceptions, or waivers of
conditions, the committee may require such conditions as will, in its judgment,
secure substantially the purposes described in section
14-1-3 of this division.
   C.   Procedures: A petition for a variance, exception, or waiver of
conditions shall be submitted in writing by the subdivider at the time when the
preliminary plat is filed for the consideration of the committee. The petition
shall state fully the grounds for the application and all of the facts relied
upon by the petitioner. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-1-12: ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   General:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the plat officer and county engineer to
enforce these regulations and to bring to the attention of the state's attorney
or his designated agent any violations of these regulations.
      2.   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of the land located
in a proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any part of the parcel before
a final plat of the subdivision has been approved by the county board in
accordance with the provisions of these regulations and filed with the clerk
and recorder of Ogle County.
      3.   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land by the use of metes
and bounds description for the purpose of sale, transfer, lease, or development
is prohibited.
      4.   No zoning certificate shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation
of the provisions of these regulations, nor shall the county have any
obligation to issue occupancy certificates or to provide public services to any
parcel created in violation of these regulations.
   B.   Violations And Penalties: Any person who violates, disobeys, neglects
or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of these regulations shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each week such violation or
failure to comply is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
The owner or lessee of any building or structure, lot or land, or part thereof
where anything in violation of this chapter shall be placed or exist, and any
architect, builder, contractor, agent, person or corporation employed in
connection therewith and who may have assisted in the commission of any such
violation shall each be liable to the fine hereinbefore specified.
   C.   Civil Enforcement: Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken in
law or in equity to prevent any violation of these regulations, to prevent
unlawful construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct, or abate a
violation and to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or
premises. These remedies shall be in addition to the penalties described above.
(Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-1-13: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS:
In Ogle County, two (2) officers are concerned with the administration of these
regulations. They are:
   A.   Plat Officer: The planning and zoning administrator is hereby
designated as the plat officer. The plat officer shall have overall
responsibility for the administration of these regulations. The plat officer
shall retain copies of plats, documents, correspondence, plans, specifications
and other data as permanent public records.
   B.   County Engineer: The county engineer shall review all subdivision plans
concerning street and drainage design standards and engineering specifications
as stipulated herein and forward recommendations to the plat officer. When the
county engineer desires additional technical data or professional assistance in
completing his review, he may, with concurrence of the plat officer, take
whatever measures are reasonably necessary to obtain information or services;
the costs of such data and assistance will be borne by the developer. (Ord., 9-
19-2000)
14-1-14: SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR DEVELOPMENT:
Land unsuitable for subdivision development due to drainage, potential for
flooding, topography, or other conditions constituting a danger to health, life
or property shall not be approved for subdivision development unless the
subdivider presents evidence or data satisfactory to the committee,
establishing that the methods proposed to meet any such conditions are adequate
to avoid any danger to health, life or property. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-1-15: DEDICATION OF LAND:
All offerings or dedications of land to the county for uses as streets,
highways, schools, parks, playgrounds, or other public uses shall be referred
and accepted by the planning, assessment and zoning committee, Ogle County
board or by any other appropriate governing authority of Ogle County. (Ord., 9-
19-2000)
14-1-16: PROPOSALS FOR PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS:
The review of a property development proposed for county board approval of a
planned development zoning district may be exempt, in part, from these
regulations provided such development:
   A.   Meets the conditions for approval of, and involves only permissible
land uses set forth in the Ogle County amendatory zoning ordinance; and
   B.   Promotes the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general welfare
and conserves the values of property. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
DIVISION 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
14-2-1: Definitions, General
14-2-2: Rules
14-2-3: Words And Terms Defined
14-2-1: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
For the purposes of uniform interpretation of these regulations, the rules and
definitions contained in this division shall be observed and applied, except
when the context clearly indicates otherwise. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-2-2: RULES:
   A.   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in the
present tense shall include the future, and words used in the singular number
shall include the plural number, and plural the singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   C.   The word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   E.   The word "person" includes individual, partnership, firm, corporation
or association.
   F.   The word "lot" shall include the words "plot", "piece", and "parcel".
   G.   The phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for",
"designed for", "maintained for", and "occupied for".
   H.   In the case of any difference of meaning or application between the
text of these regulations and any caption or illustration, the text shall
control.
   I.   Terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned to
them. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-2-3: WORDS AND TERMS DEFINED:
ADEQUATE PUBLIC FACILITIES: Facilities determined to be capable of supporting
and servicing the physical area and designated intensity of the proposed
subdivision as determined by the county board based upon specific levels of
service.
ALLEY: Public or private right of way primarily designated to serve as a
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other street.
APPLICANT: The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or its representative
who shall have express written authority to act on behalf of the owner. Consent
shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building that is partly or completely below grade.
BENCH MARK: A definite point of known elevation and location and of more or
less permanent character. The identity and elevation shall be based on United
States geological survey (USGS) datum.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by public highways, streets, or by a combination
of streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, shorelines of
waterways, streams, drainage channels, rural land or boundary lines of
municipalities.
BOND: A good and sufficient security meeting the requirements of these
regulations.
BUFFER: See definition of External Buffer.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind.
BUILDING (SETBACK) LINE: A line or lines on a plat designating the area outside
of which buildings may not be erected, except landings, open porches and
balconies, and roof overhangs, as permitted in the zoning ordinance.
CENTRAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM: A community sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision in
an outlying area.
CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM: A private water company formed by a developer to serve a
new subdivision in an outlying area. It includes water treatment and
distribution facilities.
CLERK AND RECORDER: The elected county clerk and recorder of Ogle County,
Illinois.
COLLECTOR ROADS: A road intended to move traffic from local roads to secondary
arterials. A collector road serves a neighborhood or large subdivision and
should be designed so that no residential properties face onto it.
COMMITTEE: See definition of Planning And Zoning Committee.
COMMON OWNERSHIP: Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership, or unincorporated association; or ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnership, entities, or unincorporated associations, in
which a stockbroker, partner, or associate, or a member of his family owns an
interest in each corporation, firm, partnership, entity, or unincorporated
association.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan for the county, including graphic and written
elements, indicating the long range physical development of the county or any
of its parts, including any part of such plan separately adopted, any amendment
to such plan and parts thereof, and/or any binding plan agreements with other
jurisdictions adopted by the Ogle County board.
CONCURRENCY: Requirement that development applications demonstrate that
adequate public facilities be available at prescribed levels of service
concurrent with the impact or occupancy of development units.
CONGRESSIONAL SURVEY TOWNSHIP: An area approximately six (6) miles square
identified by its unique township and range numbers with respect to a
designated principal meridian and base line.
CONSERVATION EASEMENT: A nonpossessory interest in real property imposing
limitations or affirmative obligations the purposes of which include retaining
or protecting natural, scenic or open space values of real property, assuring
its availability for agricultural, forest, recreational or open space use,
protecting natural resources, maintaining or enhancing air or water quality, or
preserving the natural, historical, architectural, archaeological or cultural
aspects of real property.
CONTIGUOUS: Lots are contiguous when at least one boundary line of one lot
touches a boundary line or lines of another lot.
CONVENTIONALLY DESIGNED SUBDIVISION: Residential developments where all the
land is divided into house lots and streets, with the only open space typically
being undevelopable wetlands, steep slopes, floodplains and stormwater
management areas.
COUNTY: Ogle County, Illinois.
COUNTY BOARD: The county board of Ogle County, Illinois.
COUNTY ENGINEER: An official appointed by the Ogle County board, under the
Illinois Compiled Statutes.
CRITICAL (UNSUITABLE) SOILS: Soil materials that have been disturbed and/or
have natural limitations extensive enough to require alternative sewage
disposal systems or are perhaps so limited as to preclude the practicality of
an on site sewage disposal system.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one outlet that terminates in a vehicular
turnaround and having an appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient
reversal of traffic movement.
CULVERT: A transverse drain that channels water under a street or driveway.
CURB FACE: The edge of the curb rising from the flow line of the gutter.
DEDICATION: Intentional transfer by the developer to the public ownership of,
or an interest in land for a public purpose. Dedication may be effected by
formal conveyance, or by any other method recognized by the laws of the state
of Illinois.
DEPARTMENT: The planning and zoning department of Ogle County, Illinois.
DESIGN CRITERIA: Standards that set forth specific improvement requirements.
DEVELOPER: The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or its representative
who is responsible for any undertaking that requires review and/or approval
under these regulations. See definition of Subdivider.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for another to use the owner's
property for a specified purpose.
ENGINEER, DESIGN: A professional engineer, registered and licensed as such in
the state of Illinois, responsible for the design of site improvement plans and
specifications for a project or subdivision.
ENGINEER, PROJECT: A professional engineer, registered and licensed as such in
the state of Illinois, responsible for assuring that the site improvements are
constructed and/or installed according to approved plans and specifications and
according to best management practices.
ESCROW: A deposit of cash with the local government or escrow agent to secure
the promise to perform some act.
EXTERNAL BUFFER: A naturally vegetated area or vegetated area along the
exterior boundaries of an entire development processed in accordance with a
multiphase or phased subdivision application which is landscaped and maintained
as open space in order to eliminate or minimize conflicts between such
development and adjacent land uses.
FEMA: The federal emergency management agency.
FINAL PLAT: The map of a subdivision to be recorded after approval by the
county board and any accompanying material as described in these regulations.
FRONTAGE: That side of a lot abutting on a street and ordinarily regarded as
the front of the lot; but it shall not be considered as the ordinary side of a
corner lot.
GRADE: The slope of a road, street, or other public way specified in percentage
terms.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATOR: The agency and person designated by
the county board to administer the health regulations of the county.
HEALTH, SAFETY, OR GENERAL WELFARE: The purpose for which counties may adopt
and enforce land use regulations for the prevention of harm or promotion of
public benefit to the community; commonly referred to as police power.
HIGHWAY: See definition of Street (Highway).
HIGHWAY, COLLECTOR: A rural road (and its extensions in or through villages or
cities) which forms an interconnected network and provides service to
communities, generally under the administration of the county.
HIGHWAY COMMISSIONER: See definition of Township Highway Commissioner.
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT: The Ogle County highway department.
HIGHWAY, LAND ACCESS: A rural road, other than an area service, collector,
major and trunk highway, and subdivision street, which provides access to farms
and land used for agricultural or other low intensity uses, generally under the
administration of the township road districts.
HIGHWAY, LIMITED ACCESS: A freeway or expressway providing a trafficway for
through traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property
on lands and other persons have no legal right to access to or from the same,
except at such points and in such manner as may be determined by the public
authority having jurisdiction over the trafficway.
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: An association or organization, whether or not
incorporated, which operates under and pursuant to recorded covenants or deed
restrictions, through which each owner of a portion of a subdivision - be it a
lot, parcel site, unit plot, condominium, or any other interest - is
automatically a member as a condition of ownership and each such member is
subject to a charge or assessment for a prorated share of expense of the
association which may become a lien against the lot, parcel, unit, condominium,
or other interest of the member.
IDOT: The Illinois department of transportation.
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A septic tank, seepage tile sewage disposal
system, or any other approved sewage treatment device.
INFILL DEVELOPMENT: Development designed to occupy scattered or vacant parcels
of land which remain after the majority of development has occurred in an area.
LAND IMPROVEMENTS: All required improvements including, but not limited to,
roads, road lighting, road signs, permanent monuments, grading and surface and
subsurface drainage ways and facilities, stormwater management facilities, soil
erosion and sediment control, community water distribution systems and water
supply facilities, community sewage systems, community sewage treatment plants
and sanitary sewers, fencing and required landscaping.
LAND SURVEYOR: See definition of Registered Professional Land Surveyor.
LANDSCAPING: Acting with the purpose of meeting specific criteria regarding
uses of outside space, including ground cover, buffers, and shade trees.
LOT: A tract, plot, or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership, or possession, or for building development.
LOT AREA: The area of horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes through
front, side and rear lot lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
LOT DEPTH: The average distance between the front and rear line of a lot
measured in the general direction of its side lot lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having frontage on two (2) nonintersecting streets,
as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other object
situated on a lot.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT, RESERVE (FLAG): A lot, approved by the county, where access is obtained by
way of a narrow strip of land (reserve strip) from a dedicated street only,
where each lot shall contain a minimum of one acre exclusive of the portion of
the lot used as a reserve strip except where a zoning district requires more
than one acre of land. The minimum width of the reserve strip shall be not less
than twenty feet (20'). Reserve lots are allowed only in accordance with the
provisions of section
16-6-5 of this code.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between side lot lines, measured at the
front building (setback) line.
MASTER PRELIMINARY PLAT: That portion of a preliminary plat submitted in
connection with a multiphase or phased subdivision application which provides
the information and graphics meeting the requirements of this chapter for the
purpose of implementing an integrated development scheme for all phases of the
proposed subdivision.
MONUMENT: A physical structure which marks the location of a corner or other
survey point as required by provisions contained herein.
NONCRITICAL (SUITABLE) SOIL: Undisturbed soil materials, as determined by on
site comprehensive soil survey, that can support a conventional private sewage
disposal system, where at least the lower portion of the soil absorption system
can be installed in original, uncompacted soils.
OFF SITE: Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the common ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
OPEN SPACE: Permanently preserved common land areas within a residential
development to be used for recreation, conservation, agricultural uses, or
preserved in an undeveloped state and/or natural condition.
OPEN SPACE SUBDIVISION: Residential developments in which dwellings are grouped
together on part or parts of a parcel, with the remaining acreage preserved as
open space. Open space subdivisions emphasize the preservation of natural
resources and features as a basis for grouping of dwellings. Homes are
separated from adjacent property or other groupings of dwellings by the
substantial open space that is permanently protected from development.
ORDINANCE: Any legislative action, however denominated, of a local government
which has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any ordinance.
OWNER: A person having either a legal or an equitable interest in a piece of
property (or the beneficiary of title that is held in a trust) and/or his
designated representative such as developers, engineers, land surveyors, and
other agents.
PEDESTRIANWAY: An easement or right of way designated to facilitate pedestrian
access to adjacent streets and/or properties.
PERFORMANCE CRITERIA: Regulation of development based on open space ratio,
impervious surface ratio, density, and floor area ratio.
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE: An irrevocable letter of credit or an escrow account
issued in the name of Ogle County to cover one hundred twenty percent (120%) of
the estimated costs of improvements approved by the county as a condition to
final plat approval.
PERSON: Any individual or group of individuals, or any corporation, general or
limited partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association, or governmental
or quasi-governmental entity.
PERSONAL BOND: A bond executed by the promisor without a surety; a contract or
promise to pay.
PHASED SUBDIVISION APPLICATION: An application for subdivision approval
submitted pursuant to a master preliminary plat, or at the option of the
subdivider, pursuant to a specific plan in which the applicant proposes to
immediately subdivide the property but will develop in one or more individual
phase(s) over a period of time.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD) ZONING DISTRICT: A planned development zoning district
is authorized and regulated through the Ogle County amendatory zoning
ordinance. This zoning district is designed to allow greater flexibility in
development of land in a manner not possible in conventional zoning districts
or through strict adherence to these regulations. The planned development is a
development of land that is under unified control and is planned and developed
as a whole in a single development operation or programmed series of
development stages. The development may include streets, circulationways,
utilities, buildings, open spaces and other features and improvements.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMITTEE: Formally, the planning, assessment and zoning
committee of the Ogle County board appointed by the chairman of the county
board.
PLANNING AND ZONING DEPARTMENT: The Ogle County, Illinois, planning and zoning
department.
PLAT ACT: An act to revise the law in relation to plats, approved March 21,
1874, as amended 1 .
PLAT, FINAL: A plat prepared for official recording and meeting the criteria of
these regulations and the regulations of the plat act.
PLAT OFFICER: The officer appointed by the county board to administer these
regulations and to assist administratively other committees, boards and
commissions. If no such officer is appointed, the planning and zoning
administrator shall serve also as plat officer.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A preliminary map, and supporting data, indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision in sufficient detail to provide adequate
basis for the review by the county planning and zoning committee, meeting the
requirements of these regulations.
PLAT, SKETCH: A sketch preparatory to the preliminary plat to enable the
subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the
planning and zoning committee as to the form of the plat and the objectives of
these regulations.
POLICE POWER: Inherent, delegated, or authorized legislative power for purposes
of regulation to secure health, safety, and general welfare.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any drainage ditch, roadway, sidewalk, pedestrianway, tree,
lawn, off street parking area, lot improvement, or other facility for which a
local government may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and
operation, or which may effect an improvement for which local government
responsibility is established.
PUBLIC MEETING: A meeting of the planning and zoning committee or county board
preceded by notice, open to the public and at which the public may, at the
discretion of the body holding the public meeting, be heard.
REDUCED BUILDING ENVELOPE: That portion of a lot that delineates the most
suitable area of a lot for development to occur. Areas beyond the reduced
building envelope areas are restricted against development in order to preserve
the most suitable soils for treating sewage, and to protect unique natural
areas, steep slopes, wetlands, floodplains and other similar areas from
development encroachment. Reduced building envelopes are generally more
restrictive than the typical building setback and yard area requirements
pursuant to the Ogle County amendatory zoning ordinance.
REGIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS: The elected or appointed head of the Lee-
Ogle County educational services region.
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer properly licensed and registered
in the state of Illinois.
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor properly licensed and
registered in the state of Illinois.
REPLATTING (RESUBDIVISION): The recombination or redivision of lots in an
approved subdivision into larger or smaller lots.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land reserved or acquired by dedication, prescription,
condemnation, gift, purchase, eminent domain or any other legal means occupied
or intended to be occupied by a street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric
transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer
main, shade trees, or for any other special use. The usage of the term "right
of way" for land platting purposes shall mean that every right of way hereafter
established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the
lots or parcels adjoining such right of way and not included within the
dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels.
   Rights of way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary
sewers, storm drains, shade trees, or any other use involving maintenance by a
public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on
which such right of way is established.
ROAD BED: The graded portion of a street within side slopes, prepared as a
foundation for the pavement structures and shoulders.
ROAD DISTRICT: Each township, for the purposes of these regulations, shall be
and is called a road district for all purposes relating to the construction,
repair, maintenance, financing and supervision of township roads, including
land access highways.
SALE OR LEASE: Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any possessory
interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise, intestate
succession, or other transfer of an interest in a subdivision or part thereof,
whether by metes and bounds or lot and block description.
SANITARY SEWER: A sanitary sewer is intended to receive and transport sewage.
SECURITY: The letter of credit or cash escrow provided by the applicant to
secure its promises in the subdivision improvement agreement.
SEPTIC SYSTEM (CONVENTIONAL): An individual, conventional on site sewage
treatment system employing a septic tank and the soil treatment system commonly
known as seepage trenches, that are partially or wholly in original soil
material.
SETBACK: See definition of Building (Setback) Line.
SIDEWALK: A pedestrian walkway within a public road right of way or easement.
SILTATION CONTROL: The installation of such devices as sediment ponds, bales of
straw, fencing, siltation webbing, sodding, seeding and mulching, or other
devices and best management practices to prevent silting of abutting properties
and roadways during the period of construction and up to and including such
time as permanent ground cover is attained.
SLOPE: The rate of deviation of the ground surface from the horizontal as
expressed in percentages.
SOIL CLASSIFIER: A professional soil classifier certified by the Illinois Soil
Classifiers Association and/or ARCPACS who, by reason of his/her special
knowledge of the physical, chemical and biological sciences applicable to
soils, and of the methods and principles of soil classification as acquired by
soils education and soil classification experience in the formation,
morphology, description and mapping of soils, is qualified to practice soil
classifying.
SOIL SCIENTIST: An individual with a minimum of a bachelor's of science degree
in soil science or a related field with at least fifteen (15) semester hours in
soils, plus one year of soils field investigation and mapping for area(s)
located in Northern Illinois.
STATE'S ATTORNEY: The elected or appointed state's attorney of Ogle County,
Illinois.
STREET (HIGHWAY): A right of way, whether designated as a street, highway,
road, lane, court, thoroughfare, parkway, freeway, expressway, boulevard, or
avenue, other than an alley, usually affording the principal means of access to
abutting property, and improved in accordance with the standards herein.
STREET, COLLECTOR: Collector streets function as secondary land service streets
in that they move traffic from the major streets, which distribute traffic
regionally, to minor streets, which distribute the traffic to individual lots,
parcels, and uses within the subdivision, area or neighborhood. Collector
streets also may serve individual lots, parcels and uses as a secondary or
additional function. The average daily traffic for collector streets is between
two hundred fifty (250) and five thousand (5,000) vehicles.
STREET, DEAD END: A road or a portion of a road with only one vehicular traffic
outlet.
STREET, FRONTAGE OR SERVICE: A minor street generally parallel to and adjacent
to arterial streets and highways, which provides access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic.
STREET LINE: The dividing line between the street or highway right of way and a
lot or parcel.
STREET, LOOP: A short, independent street which usually terminates along the
same collector street of its origin.
STREET, MAJOR (ARTERIAL): A street utilized for high vehicular speeds or for
heavy volumes of traffic on a continuous route. Average daily traffic generally
exceeds five thousand (5,000) vehicles.
STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS (FRONTAGE ROAD): A local street or highway paralleling,
adjacent to and having limited access to a freeway, expressway, collector
highway, area service highway, or land access highway which provides direct
access to abutting property and protection from through traffic.
STREET, MINOR (LOCAL): Minor streets are exclusively land service facilities
for access to abutting properties. These serve the local neighborhood and may
be in the form of a cul-de-sac or loop street; provided, that average daily
traffic is less than two hundred fifty (250) vehicles.
STREET, MULTIPLE-FAMILY ACCESS: A private way or driveway which affords a means
of vehicular access to parking areas and bays and to abutting buildings in a
multiple-family dwelling unit subdivision.
STREET, PARTIAL: That portion of the street right of way on either side of a
tract boundary, generally parallel and adjacent to the boundary line of the
tract, having a lesser right of way width than required for a full width street
of the type involved.
STREET, PRIVATE: An undedicated street which is privately owned and maintained.
STREET, PUBLIC: Any street shown on a subdivision plat that is to be dedicated
to public use.
STREET RIGHT OF WAY WIDTH: The distance between property lines measured at
right angles to the centerline of the street.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected.
SUBDIVIDE: The act or process of creating a subdivision.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person who, holding either legal title or equitable interest in
land, causes it directly or indirectly to be divided into a subdivision.
SUBDIVISION: The subdivision of land into two (2) or more parts, any of which
is less than five (5) acres in area exclusive of all right of way, for the
purpose of transfer of ownership or possession, or building development; or if
an easement of access or a new road is involved, any division of land. The term
includes any division of land that attempts to avoid the requirements of these
regulations. Where appropriate to the content, the term shall relate to the
process of subdivision, or to the land subdivided, and shall include
resubdivisions. Subdivision platting is not required and the provisions of
these regulations, unless otherwise stated below, shall not apply in any of the
following instances:
   A.   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five (5)
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access, such division not for agricultural purposes, provided the dedication of
school site(s) or payment of fees in lieu thereof is made in accordance with
division 6 of this chapter;
   B.   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access
provided the dedication of school site(s) or payment of fees in lieu thereof is
made in accordance with division 6 of this chapter;
   C.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land;
   D.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right of way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   E.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   F.   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
   G.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
   H.   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two (2) parts of a particular parcel or tract of
land existing on July 17, 1959, and not involving any new streets or easements
of access provided the dedication of school site(s) or payment of fees in lieu
thereof is made in accordance with division 6 of this chapter;
   I.   The sale of a single lot of less than five (5) acres from a larger
tract when a survey is made by an Illinois registered land surveyor; provided,
that this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the
same larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of
the larger tract on October 1, 1973, and provided also that this exemption does
not invalidate any other requirements applicable to the subdivision of land and
provided also that the dedication of school site(s) or payment of fees in lieu
thereof is made in accordance with division 6 of this chapter;
   J.   A division for the purpose of the sale or transfer of ownership of one
lot which contains an existing residential building constructed prior to March
24, 1992, and said lot is not less than one acre in area, with a minimum width
of one hundred fifty feet (150') measured at the street or road right of way
line, such division made in accordance with the requirements set forth in
paragraph 16-5-1E2 of this code. For the purposes of review, a plat of survey
shall be required for said division. The zoning administrator's and plat
officer's signature of approval shall be required on the plat of survey prior
to recording.
SUBDIVISION AGENT: Any person who represents, or acts for or on behalf of, a
subdivider or developer, in selling, leasing, or developing, or offering to
sell, lease, or develop any interest, lot, parcel, unit, site, or plat in a
subdivision, except an attorney at law whose representation of another person
consists solely of rendering legal services.
SUBDIVISION, MAJOR: All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivision,
including, but not limited to, subdivisions of four (4) or more lots, or any
size subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the local government
facilities or the creation of any public improvements. Major subdivisions shall
be submitted as an application for sketch plat stage review.
SUBDIVISION, MINOR: Any subdivision containing not more than three (3) lots
fronting on an existing street, not involving any new street or road, or the
extension of municipal facilities or the creation of any public improvements,
and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property,
and not in conflict with any provision or portion of the comprehensive plan,
zoning ordinance, or these regulations. Minor subdivisions may, at the plat
officer's discretion, be exempted from the sketch plat review stage.
SUBDIVISION, NONRESIDENTIAL: A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial.
SUITABLE SOIL: Undisturbed soil materials as determined by on site
comprehensive soil survey that can support a conventional private sewage
disposal system, or subsurface absorption system, where at least the lower
portion of the soil absorption part of the system can be installed in original,
uncompacted soils.
SURETY BOND: See definition of Performance Guarantee.
TOWNSHIP HIGHWAY COMMISSIONER: In each township or multitownship road district,
the elected highway commissioner, pursuant to the laws of the state of
Illinois.
TRACT: A lot. The term "tract" is used interchangeably with the term "lot",
particularly in the context of subdivision, where a "tract" is subdivided into
several lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, condominiums, tracts, or interests.
TRUST INDENTURE: Any recordable instrument by which common ground is held or
maintained or assessments in a subdivision are levied for the administration of
specific obligations or both.
UTILITY COMPANY: A person, firm or corporation who owns, controls, operates or
manages any equipment, plant or property furnishing telephone, telegraph,
electric, cable television, light, heat, power, water, sewerage, gas (by
pipeline) or similar service for public use.
VESTED RIGHTS: Right to initiate or continue the establishment of a use which
will be contrary to a restriction or regulation coming into effect when the
project associated with the use is completed.
VICINITY MAP: A drawing located on the sketch and preliminary plat which sets
forth by dimensions or other means, the relationship of the proposed
subdivision to other nearby developments, landmarks, community facilities or
services.
WETLAND: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs
and similar areas. In any case, the definition herein shall conform to the
definition, as amended, adopted by the U.S. army corps of engineers, the U.S.
department of agriculture or other such agency with lawful jurisdiction.
ZONING ORDINANCE: As from time to time amended, the ordinance which controls
and regulates zoning for Ogle County, Illinois. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq., 1998.
DIVISION 3
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS
SECTION:
14-3-1: General Procedure For Approval And Requirements
14-3-2: Preapplication Conference
14-3-3: Sketch Plat
14-3-4: Preliminary Plat
14-3-5: Improvement Plans
14-3-6: Improvements To Install Or Guarantee
14-3-7: Final Plat
14-3-8: Outside Consultants
14-3-9: Trust Indentures And Property/Unit Owners' Association (Condominiums)
14-3-1: GENERAL PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL AND REQUIREMENTS:
Before any land is subdivided, the owner of the property proposed to be
subdivided, or his authorized agent, shall apply for and secure approval of the
proposed subdivision in accordance with the following procedures, which include
two (2) principal steps for a minor subdivision and three (3) principal steps
for a major subdivision:
   A.   Minor subdivision:
      1.   Preliminary plat.
      2.   Final plat.
   B.   Major subdivision:
      1.   Sketch plat.
      2.   Preliminary plat.
      3.   Final plat.
The plat officer shall be responsible for coordinating the process and
reporting to the planning and zoning committee on the results of staff,
departmental and other review. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-3-2: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
   A.   Discussion Of Requirements: Before preparing a sketch plat or
preliminary plat for a subdivision, the subdivider shall schedule an
appointment and meet with the plat officer unless the preapplication conference
has been waived by the plat officer. The plat officer may also request that the
county engineer and Ogle County health department also take part in the
preapplication conference. This step does not require formal application, fee
payment or filing of plans.
   At the conference, the subdivider shall review with the plat officer (and
county engineer and Ogle County health department, if applicable) the following
issues as they relate to the proposed subdivision:
      1.   General plan and development policies of the county;
      2.   Existing zoning and land use in the general area of the property in
question;
      3.   The county's procedures for approval of a subdivision plat;
      4.   The county's requirements as to general layout of streets and for
reservations of land, street improvements, drainage, sewerage, fire protection,
and similar matters, as well as the availability of existing services,
including schools;
      5.   Any other pertinent factors.
   The plat officer shall also advise the subdivider, when appropriate, to
discuss the proposed subdivision with those officials who must eventually
approve those aspects of the subdivision plat coming within their jurisdiction.
   B.   Determination: After conducting the preapplication conference, the plat
officer shall make a determination as to the necessity of the sketch plat stage
for a minor subdivision. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-3-3: SKETCH PLAT:
   A.   General: Before preparing a preliminary plat for the subdivision of
land within the unincorporated area of Ogle County and after meeting with the
plat officer (preapplication conference), the subdivider shall submit to the
plat officer a sketch plat with allied documents, as set forth below, unless
the sketch plat stage for a minor subdivision has been waived by the plat
officer.
   B.   Intent: The intent of the sketch plat stage is to provide information
to help a prospective subdivider appraise the feasibility of a subdivision
concept according to development plans and policies, and existing and projected
development activities. The sketch plat stage encourages the discussion of
basic problems and questions related to the development proposal prior to the
expenditure of funds for more detailed plans. The sketch plat will be presented
to the plat officer, highway department and health department at a sketch plat
conference. The sketch plat conference shall be arranged by the subdivider.
   C.   Filing: At least seven (7) days prior to the sketch plat conference,
the subdivider shall submit the following to the plat officer:
      1.   Five (5) copies of a sketch plat including sufficient spatial
analysis to indicate the following (existing and proposed conditions within 100
feet of the tract):
         a.   Topography, at a minimum ten foot (10') contour interval with
significant slopes designated.
         b.   Wooded and natural areas.
         c.   Wetlands, bodies of water and other conspicuous low areas subject
to flooding.
         d.   Drainage patterns with all high and low elevation sites
designated.
         e.   Existing interior adjacent roadways, or other public ways,
railroad and utility rights of way, parks or other public open spaces within
one hundred feet (100') adjacent to the site.
         f.   Buildings, barns, bridges and other existing structures.
         g.   Neighborhood land uses, political boundaries, known taxing
districts, municipal planning boundaries, present zoning and planned uses
according to local government plans.
         h.   Names of adjacent subdivisions and the owner(s) of adjacent
subdivided and unsubdivided property as well as conditions of adjacent property
which may affect the proposed development.
         i.   Proposed layout of roads, and land uses and general pedestrian
circulation.
         j.   Proposed dedication and reservation, school sites, park sites,
open space and natural area, and stormwater management facilities.
         k.   The boundaries of each soil type and identification of soil types
by their name and number according to the Ogle County soil survey
classification system provided by the USDA natural resources conservation
service (formerly the soil conservation service).
         l.   A legend of each soil type listed according to their limitations
as set forth in the Ogle County soil survey and according to their category as
set forth in the Ogle County health code.
         m.   A north arrow and scale.
      2.   The following additional information shall be submitted to the plat
officer:
         a.   Name of subdivision: A subdivision shall not be valid nor
entitled to be recorded if the record name, or part thereof, of said
subdivision is the same as, duplicates, closely approximates or is similar to
or pronounced the same as the name of any previously approved subdivision
within the county. A subdivision name or part thereof shall be considered as
duplicating, closely approximating, similar to or pronounced the same as the
name of an existing subdivision name if it contains a proper, historical,
geographical, locational, mythological, famous, fictitious, or personal name,
words, or combination thereof which is the same as, similar to or pronounced
the same as a word in the name of any other previously approved subdivision
within the county. If in the event the committee determines that the subject
subdivision name duplicates, closely approximates, is similar to or is
pronounced the same as the name of an existing subdivision name, then the
committee shall require the subdivider or developer to propose an alternative
name or names.
         b.   Site information including, but not limited to, the total number
of acres, the acreage in lots, acreage in rights of way, acreage in open space
and the existing and proposed zoning (if applicable).
         c.   Location by township, range, section and property index number.
         d.   A location map at a scale of not less than one inch equals one
thousand feet (1" = 1,000') showing the relationship of the subdivision to its
surroundings within a one-half (1/2) mile including section lines, collector
and arterial roads.
         e.   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the subdivider and
owner.
         f.   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the site planner,
designer, landscape architect, engineer or surveyor who prepared the
subdivision layout.
         g.   A general statement of the proposed method of stabilization to
prevent soil erosion prior to and during construction.
         h.   Legal description of the land proposed to be subdivided.
         i.   Certification of ownership of the land proposed to be subdivided.
Where the subdivider does not own such land, written notarized permission from
the owner shall be provided authorizing the development of such land under the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Sketch Plat Conference: After the plat officer examines the submittals
in order to determine their adequacy for presentation at a sketch plat
conference, the subdivider shall present the sketch plat and accompanying
information at a sketch plat conference in order to describe the existing
conditions of the area and the proposed development thereof. The subdivider may
be requested to submit additional data on existing conditions, the development
proposal, and the expected impacts in order to provide information for adequate
review. Additional sketch plat conferences (not to exceed 3 unless mutually
agreed upon) may be held to discuss basic questions prior to review by local
agencies as provided for in this section.
   E.   Sketch Plat Distribution: Following the sketch plat conference, twenty
four (24) copies of the sketch plat and other required allied documents folded
to approximately nine inches by twelve inches (9" x 12"), and incorporating any
revisions made at the sketch plat conference(s) shall be submitted to the plat
officer for distribution by the county (with postage to be paid by the
subdivider upon receipt of a bill from the county), to the following parties,
if applicable:
      Adjacent property owners
      County board members in district
      County engineer
      Fire protection district(s)
      Forest preserve district(s)
      Municipalities having jurisdiction
      Ogle County health department
      Ogle County sheriff
      Ogle County soil and water conservation district
      Park district(s)
      Planning and zoning committee
      School district(s)
      Township highway commissioner
      Township planning commission
      Township supervisor
      Others
   These agencies and individuals shall be requested to forward any comments
and recommendations to the plat officer within fifteen (15) days of the date of
the transmittal cover letter accompanying the sketch plat. This time period may
be extended by mutual consent of the subdivider and the agencies involved. The
plat officer shall make available any comments or recommendations received from
said agencies or individuals to the subdivider, county staff and the committee.
   F.   Staff Review: Not less than fifteen (15) days after the above mentioned
agencies and individuals have been sent the sketch plat information, the sketch
plat shall be reviewed by the staff. In reviewing the subdivision proposal, the
plat officer shall review all comments and recommendations made by the above
mentioned agencies and individuals and may meet with the subdivider and/or
local review agencies. The review process shall include the following:
      1.   On site field investigations.
      2.   Analysis of the site in relation to the surrounding areas.
      3.   Analysis of the existing conditions on and adjacent to the site.
      4.   Identification of potential problems of the proposed subdivision in
relation to existing conditions of the area, local government plans, policies
and ordinance, and current planning and development activities.
   G.   Completion Of Sketch Plat Stage: Within thirty (30) days after the
above mentioned agencies and individuals have been sent the sketch plat
information and following staff review, the plat officer shall summarize all
comments received and forward same to the subdivider. The subdivider shall
address the comments received prior to application for approval of a
preliminary plat. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-3-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the preliminary plat stage is to assure that the
subdivision is laid out in accordance with the land's suitability and
limitations for development. At this stage, the subdivider is required to
provide information which will demonstrate how the subdivision will function
upon its development and completion.
   B.   Filing: The developer shall prepare and submit to the plat officer six
(6) copies of a preliminary plat. Such preliminary plat may be submitted after
receipt of the plat officer's report on the sketch plat, if a sketch plat was
submitted. The preliminary plat shall be any scale from one inch equals twenty
feet (1" = 20') through one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), so long
as the scale is an increment of ten feet (10'), shall be on a not larger than
thirty inch by thirty six inch (30" x 36") sheet, folded to approximately nine
inches by twelve inches (9" x 12") and shall contain the following information:
      1.   All information required in section
14-3-3, "Sketch Plat", of this division, if no sketch plat has been submitted.
      2.   A key map showing the tract and its relation to the surrounding
area. The boundaries of the plat must be surveyed and certified by an Illinois
professional land surveyor. Distances shall be to one-hundredths (1/100) of one
foot (1') and angles shall be to one-half (1/2) minute. If considered
necessary, the plat officer may require the surveyor to submit his calculations
and field notes.
      3.   A north arrow and graphic scale.
      4.   Name of subdivision: A subdivision shall not be valid nor entitled
to be recorded if the record name, or part thereof, of said subdivision is the
same as, duplicates, closely approximates or is similar to or pronounced the
same as the name of any previously approved subdivision within the county. A
subdivision name or part thereof shall be considered as duplicating, closely
approximating, similar to or pronounced the same as the name of an existing
subdivision name if it contains a proper, historical, geographical, locational,
mythological, famous, fictitious, or personal name, words, or combination
thereof which is the same as, similar to or pronounced the same as a word in
the name of any other previously approved subdivision within the county. If in
the event the committee determines that the subject subdivision name
duplicates, closely approximates, is similar to or is pronounced the same as
the name of an existing subdivision name, then the committee shall require the
subdivider or developer to propose an alternative name or names.
      5.   Name of proposed roads: Road names shall not be used which will
duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other road
or subdivision in the county. Roads that are extensions of, or in obvious
alignment with existing roads shall bear the name of said existing roads.
The name of the primary collector road of a subdivision shall, if possible, be
the same as or similar to the name of said subdivision. A separate name and/or
directional designator may be required for each segment of a road that changes
direction forty five degrees (45°) or more (as measured from the centerline
right of way). The Ogle County board shall have final authority to designate
the name of the roads.
      6.   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owner, the subdivider,
the person(s) preparing the plat and the engineer and land surveyor who will
design improvements for and survey the tract or such part thereof as is
proposed to be subdivided.
      7.   Existing conditions on and within one hundred feet (100') of the
tract (unless a greater distance is required for review):
         a.   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than two feet (2') with reference to USGS datum or at a more frequent
interval if required by the plat officer for land and unusual topography.
         b.   Location, width and names of all existing platted roadways or
other public ways, railroad and utility rights of way, parks and other public
open spaces, permanent buildings or structures and section and municipal
corporation lines.
         c.   (1) Location; Requirements: Location of all existing farm and
storm drainage tiles shall be required and shall be located by means of slit
trenching and hand probing by persons qualified to do such work. Procedural
guide to conducting the required tile investigation is found at paragraph B7c
(2) of this section. All existing drain tile lines encountered during the
investigation shall be repaired and/or upgraded to function properly. The
developer shall provide the plat officer five (5) copies of a topographical
boundary map showing the following:
               (A)   Location of each slit trench and each trench identified to
correspond with the tile investigation reports.
               (B)   Location of each drain tile with a flow direction arrow
and tile size.
               (C)   A summary of the tile investigation report showing trench
identification number, tile size, material and quality percentage of tile
filled with water, percentage of restricted siltation, depth of ground cover
and soil texture at grade.
               (D)   Name, address and telephone number of person(s) conducting
the tile location investigation.
            (2)   Procedural Guide For Conducting Tile Investigation:
               (A)   Requiring the developer to conduct and provide a report
concerning a thorough drain tile investigation is critical to the review and
approval process for a preliminary plat or plan for development. Such an
investigation has many purposes including, but not necessarily limited to, the
following:
                  (i)   Protecting the upland landowner or owners whose
property drains through the subject development site;
                  (ii)   Understanding local drainage and drain tile systems
dynamics and maintaining the integrity of those systems which function properly
and improving wherever possible systems which are deficient;
                  (iii)   Keeping drain tiles and septic fields separate and at
a safe and suitable distance from one another;
                  (iv)   Potential best management practices related to on site
detention of stormwater runoff; and
                  (v)   Ensure compliance with local, state and federal
drainage laws and regulations.
               (B)   The following shall serve as the procedures established
for conducting the required drain tile investigation:
                  (i)   Observe aerial photography for the subject site and
overlay topographic data, including contour elevation lines, with sound data
and make rational assumptions as to where drain tiles are typically located
within the site.
                  (ii)   Observe existing surface waterways, freestanding
bodies of water and other depressional areas and cut trenches adjacent to the
same with specific attention to and emphasis on ingress and egress points.
Trenches shall be, at a minimum, three feet (3') wide, five feet (5') deep and
six feet (6') in length.
                  (iii)   Field stake at a minimum of one hundred foot (100')
intervals, using additional slit trenching, hand probes or electronic devices,
the location of any existing drain tiles so as to map the same over its
complete length within the proposed property development.
         d.   Existing zoning classifications on and adjacent to the tract.
         e.   Watercourses including base flood elevations certified by either
the Illinois state water survey, the Illinois department of transportation,
Illinois department of natural resources, U.S. army corps of engineers or other
such state or federal agency as may be required, natural and manmade retention/
detention areas and any other areas within the tract subject to inundation by
stormwater. Any federal emergency management agency designated flood fringe and
floodway areas shall be delineated, including the flood zone designation.
         f.   Wetlands, ponds and surface seeps.
         g.   The results of any test made to ascertain subsurface rock and
soil conditions and the water table.
         h.   Soil mapping, based upon the on site determination of soil
characteristics, shall be prepared by a certified soils classifier recognized
by either the Illinois Soil Classifiers Association (ISCA) or the American
Registry Of Certified Professionals In Agronomy, Crops, And Soils (ARCPACS).
The soil map and accompanying report shall be used to preliminarily determine
the soil suitability for on site waste disposal systems and/or buildings with
basements. Final determination of soil suitability for on site waste disposal
shall be made by the Ogle County health department. Soil mapping shall be
conducted in accordance with the following criteria:
            (1)   There shall be a sufficient number of soil borings throughout
the proposed acreage to allow intensive mapping of soil characteristics and
limiting factors related to suitability for on site waste disposal systems. The
mapping and overlay of such characteristics shall be of sufficient detail to
minimize the potential for inclusions and to determine the existence of
suitable soils on each proposed lot. There shall be at least one boring on each
acre of the proposed subdivision. The location of all borings shall be shown on
the soil map and each boring shall be numbered consecutively.
            (2)   A two hundred foot (200') grid system shall be established.
At each grid point, a boring shall be done. In addition, sufficient additional
borings shall be required to adequately determine soil boundaries between soil
mapping units.
            (3)   Soil borings shall be conducted using either a minimum two
inch (2") diameter core sample or an excavated pit to a depth of at least seven
feet (7').
            (4)   A detailed soil map and detailed logs of each grid sample
site and each intermediate sample site shall be prepared by the soil classifier
and submitted with the soil report. Individual and intermediate boring
locations shall be logged and submitted with the following information:
               (A)   Boring or pit number.
               (B)   Sample method.
               (C)   Soil series and classification.
               (D)   Parent material.
               (E)   Percent slope.
               (F)   Depth to seasonal high groundwater table.
               (G)   Observed water table.
               (H)   Depth to moderately slow to slow permeability layer.
               (I)   Horizon depth.
               (J)   Texture.
               (K)   Structure.
               (L)   Color and Munsell notation.
               (M)   Mottles.
               (N)   Coatings.
               (O)   Consistency.
               (P)   Estimated permeability (inches/hour).
               (Q)   Depth to bedrock.
            (5)   The date(s) of all field work shall be indicated on the soil
maps, logs and reports.
            (6)   Weather conditions shall be indicated for each day and period
of field work, with particular mention of depth of frost, when applicable.
            (7)   The entire subdivision area shall be mapped showing soil
types present with boundaries of each defined and considering areas of
transition. This mapping shall be coordinated with site topography at one or
two foot (2') contour intervals at a maximum scale of one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100').
            (8)   A map shall be submitted that depicts areas of seasonal high
groundwater, limiting permeability, bedrock or other limiting layer as
determined by observation of the soil characteristics. Boundaries of the
following areas shall be defined and shown on the soil map:
               (A)   Seasonal high groundwater or other limiting layer at less
than twelve inches (<12").
               (B)   Seasonal high groundwater or other limiting layer at
twelve inches to thirty inches (12" - 30").
               (C)   Seasonal high groundwater or other limiting layer at
thirty inches to forty eight inches (30" - 48").
               (D)   Seasonal high groundwater or other limiting layer at forty
eight inches to sixty inches (48" - 60").
               (E)   Seasonal high groundwater or other limiting layer greater
than sixty inches (>60").
            (9)   The signature of the soil classifier must be affixed to the
soil map, the report and the preliminary plat.
         i.   Railroads, bridges, culverts, storm sewers, sanitary sewers,
easements of record, existing buildings including use or other identified
improvements that are to remain, and significant natural features such as
wooded areas, rock formations and scenic vistas.
         j.   Locations and names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of
adjoining parcels of land.
         k.   Historical and archaeological sites or structures as identified
by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
         l.   Legal description of the land proposed to be subdivided and a
site data information block which shall include, but not be limited to: the
total acreage of the tract stated in hundredths (0.01) of an acre, the acreage
in lots, the acreage in rights of way, the acreage in open space and the
proposed number of lots, the minimum lot size, the maximum lot size and the
average lot size in square feet, and the existing and proposed zoning (if
applicable).
         m.   A statement shall be placed on the preliminary plat to indicate
all municipalities which are within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the
proposed subdivision. The statement shall also indicate which municipality is
exercising the statutory privilege of planning advice, if a planning boundary
line has been negotiated, or which municipality is closest if such a boundary
line has not been negotiated. If there are no municipalities within one and
one-half (11/2) miles, the statement shall so indicate.
      8.   Proposed conditions.
         a.   Proposed zoning, if applicable.
         b.   Alignment, width, and typical cross section of all roads and
rights of way, sewer and water lines, and other public utilities where
applicable.
         c.   Lots, including layout, number, dimension and area in square
feet.
         d.   Required front building setback line, side and rear yard area
lines and dimensions; or, reduced building envelope lines and dimensions. The
reduced building envelope design shall conform to the design standards
contained in paragraph 14-5-4C2 of this chapter.
         e.   Proposed site grading plan when required by the county engineer,
including building pads; top of foundation elevations, when required; proposed
roadway grades and surface water drainage patterns. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
         f.   Any proposed alteration, adjustment, or change in the elevation
or topography of any area in a "special flood hazard area" (SFHA) as delineated
on the federal emergency management agency's (FEMA) flood insurance rate maps
of Ogle County, Illinois, or otherwise known to be within the 100-year
floodplain. Any development of parcels within an SFHA shall be in compliance
with any and all applicable provisions of the Ogle County, Illinois, flood
damage prevention ordinance (chapter 16, division 10 of this code). (Ord., 9-
19-2000; amd. Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
         g.   Location of stormwater management facilities, including sewers
and storage facilities.
         h.   Proposed type of treatment or method of sewage disposal.
         i.   Landscaping plan showing proposed plantings; location and
description of landscaped entryway signs, if applicable, including height,
size, setbacks and maintenance provisions; screening treatment on double
frontage lots; landscaping of stormwater management facilities and areas
designated for restoration of disrupted site flora.
         j.   Sites, if any, intended to be reserved for public use and/or for
use of property owners in the subdivision, including the purpose and conditions
of reservation or dedication, such proposed common land must meet the approval
of the planning and zoning department as to its suitability in terms of
terrain, dry ground cover, maintenance requirements, number of persons or
households benefited by its establishment.
         k.   Text of proposed protective covenants, deed restrictions,
homeowners' association contracts, easement provisions and other documents
whereby the subdivider proposes to regulate land use in the subdivision,
restrict the design, development and/or use of the property and otherwise
protect special areas within the proposed development.
         l.   Wetland delineation report.
         m.   Any other pertinent information that may be requested by the
committee.
      9.   If the proposed subdivision lies within one and one-half (11/2)
miles of any municipalities, the preliminary plat must be approved by the
planning commission of any municipality which will later be required to sign
the final plat. A certificate shall be placed on the final plat to indicate
such approvals. It shall be the subdivider's responsibility to provide written
proof of such approval.
      10.   If the proposed subdivision shows access to a state highway, the
preliminary plat must be approved by the Illinois department of transportation.
A certificate shall be placed on the final plat to indicate such approval. It
shall be the subdivider's responsibility to provide written proof of such
approval.
      11.   On site and off site easements.
   C.   Processing Of Preliminary Plat:
      1.   Filing: The subdivider shall present the required information to the
plat officer. The preliminary plat shall be considered officially filed after
it is found by the plat officer to:
         a.   Be in substantial conformance with the sketch plat, if
applicable.
         b.   Contain the information necessary for its proper review by staff,
applicable agencies and the planning and zoning committee.
         c.   Be submitted with applicable subdivision processing fees as
adopted by the Ogle County board and from time to time amended.
The plat officer may reject any preliminary plat that does not meet any of the
above filing requirements.
      2.   Referral To Planning And Zoning Committee: The plat officer shall
refer the preliminary plat to the planning and zoning committee not less than
fifteen (15) days prior to the next regular meeting of the committee.
      3.   County Departmental/Staff Review: The plat officer shall forward the
preliminary plat to the Ogle County engineer (county highway department) and
the Ogle County health department, which shall be requested to forward any
information, comments and recommendations regarding the preliminary plat to the
plat officer at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the next regular meeting
of the planning and zoning committee at which the preliminary plat will be
considered. This time period may be extended by mutual consent of the
subdivider and the agencies involved.
      4.   Plat Officer Recommendation: All information, comments and
recommendations concerning the preliminary plat shall be reviewed by the plat
officer. The plat officer shall recommend to the planning and zoning committee
for its action: approval, approval with conditions, or rejection of the
preliminary plat.
      5.   Amendments To Preliminary Plat: If, during the review process,
changes are made to the preliminary plat, which in the opinion of the plat
officer require the submittal of a revised preliminary plat or other
preliminary plat documents, the subdivider shall submit such revised
information as required. When submitting a revised preliminary plat, a minimum
of six (6) copies of the revised plat shall be submitted.
      6.   Action Of The Planning And Zoning Committee: The planning and zoning
committee shall approve, approve with conditions, or reject the preliminary
plat. If the planning and zoning committee finds that changes, additions or
corrections are required on the preliminary plat, the plat officer shall so
advise the subdivider in writing and the subdivider may resubmit the
preliminary plat to the committee without paying an additional fee, for its
consideration at the next or subsequent regular meeting of the committee. When
submitting a revised preliminary plat, a minimum of six (6) copies of the
revised plat shall be submitted. Said submittal shall be made to the plat
officer not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the regular meeting at which
the committee is to consider the resubmitted preliminary plat. The committee
shall approve or disapprove the resubmitted preliminary plat, which shall
include the recommendations of the county engineer, the plat officer, and the
Ogle County health department.
      7.   Notification To Subdivider: The plat officer shall notify the
subdivider in writing of the decision of the planning and zoning committee,
including any conditions of approval or the reason(s) for rejection. Approval
of the committee constitutes neither final approval of the subdivision nor the
acceptance of required improvements.
   D.   Qualifications Governing Approval: The following qualifications shall
govern approval of the preliminary plat:
      1.   Approval of the planning and zoning committee constitutes neither
final approval of the subdivision nor the acceptance of required improvements.
      2.   The planning and zoning committee may require such changes or
revisions as are deemed necessary in the interest of the needs of the county.
      3.   Approval of the planning and zoning committee is tentative only
involving merely the general acceptability of the layout as submitted.
      4.   Approval by the committee of the preliminary plat shall be valid for
a maximum period of two (2) years from the date of approval, unless upon
written request of the developer, the committee grants an extension. The
written request for said extension shall not require an additional fee, or the
submittal of additional copies of the preliminary plat. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-3-5: IMPROVEMENT PLANS:
   A.   Intent: The improvement plan stage is for the purpose of accurately
showing how the improvements will be constructed in order to conform to the
layout and design objectives of the preliminary plat. As such, the improvement
plan process is an extension of the preliminary plat process. Where conditions
so warrant, the county engineer may require that portions of improvement plans
be submitted during the preliminary plat review process in order to determine
the land's suitability for the preliminary plat design. Any required off site
improvements and engineering studies shall be provided upon request. Where the
subdivision is to be developed in phases, and where soil and/or topographical
conditions so warrant, the county engineer may require that improvement plans
for the entire phased area be submitted prior to the construction of
improvements of the first or initial development phase.
   B.   Filing: Prior to the submittal of the final plat, the subdivider shall
submit six (6) complete sets of plans and specifications for the construction.
Improvement plans shall not be approved until after the site has been zoned
according to the uses proposed in the approved preliminary plat.
      1.   The plans, which detail the construction and types of materials to
be used in conjunction with the development of the subdivision, shall be
prepared by a registered professional engineer. Any alterations of the common
land or improvement within the common land will require the submission of
detailed improvement plans and will be considered a required improvement.
      2.   Improvement plans shall be prepared in an exhibit not to exceed
twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") and shall contain the
following information:
         a.   Title page, which shall include key map showing the relationship
of the area to be subdivided to the tract and which shall reflect areas of the
tract previously subdivided plus adjacent streets. In addition, the name,
address and telephone number of the developer and engineering firm, as well as
a registered professional engineer's seal, should be indicated.
         b.   North arrow and graphic scale shall be indicated on each plan
sheet.
         c.   One or more permanent bench marks, in or near the subdivision, to
which the subdivision is referenced. The identity and elevation shall be based
on USGS datum.
         d.   List of the standards and specifications followed, citing volume,
section, page or other references.
         e.   Typical cross sections of any proposed roads.
         f.   Grading and paving details conforming to Ogle County standard
specifications and requirements.
         g.   Summary of quantities of all items necessary to construct the
improvements depicted on the submitted plans.
         h.   Details of streets including location and width of all proposed
public or private rights of way and private roadway easements, existing and
proposed sanitary sewers, drainage channels, swales, storm sewers, including
adequate natural discharge points, stormwater detention and/or retention
facilities, and silt control measures.
         i.   Plans and profiles and cross sections at every one hundred feet
(100') of streets and sewers, scale not less than one inch equals fifty feet
(1" = 50') horizontal and one inch equals five feet (1" = 5') vertical.
      3.   Topographical and profile studies must have on their face the signed
statement of a registered professional engineer, and the owner of the land or
his duly authorized attorney, to the effect that to the best of their knowledge
and belief the drainage or surface waters will not be changed by the
construction of the proposed subdivision, or, that if such surface water
drainage will be changed, reasonable provision has been made for collection and
diversion of such surface waters into public areas, or drains which the
developer has the right to use, and that such surface waters will be planned
for in accordance with generally accepted engineering practices so as to reduce
the likelihood of damage to the adjacent property because of the construction
of the subdivision.
      4.   Approval of the improvement plans by the county engineer shall be
valid for a period of two (2) years from the date of approval, or for such
longer period of time as the county engineer may determine to be advisable if,
after review, such longer period is necessary to facilitate adequate and
coordinated provisions for transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
playgrounds, or other public requirements. The construction of the improvements
shall be completed within two (2) years from the date of approval of the
improvement plans. A resubmission and review by the county engineer may be
required if not satisfactorily completed within said two (2) year period. Said
initial two (2) year period may be extended by the county engineer for
successive one year periods not exceeding two (2) consecutive one year periods.
(Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-3-6: IMPROVEMENTS TO INSTALL OR GUARANTEE:
   A.   In lieu of constructing the planned improvements prior to approval of a
final plat, the developer must present to the county engineer a construction
guarantee in the amount of one hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated cost
of the required improvements for the development of property subject to such
final plat of subdivision, prior to approval of the final plat. The cost of
each improvement shall be itemized in a list prepared, signed and sealed by the
design engineer on his letterhead stationery and approved by the county
engineer. Such guarantee is to:
      1.   Assure the satisfactory installation of said improvements in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and according to good
engineering and construction practices.
      2.   Assure the satisfactory completion of said improvements within the
prescribed time limits.
   B.   Such guarantee shall be one of the following formats and the form,
amount and type subject to approval by the county engineer:
      1.   A certificate of deposit with, or an escrow account, at a federally
insured bank or savings and loan association. Such certificate of deposit or
escrow account shall be in a form to allow the county to procure the funds to
complete the land improvements if construction of said improvements is not
completed in accordance with the provisions of these regulations, and shall
otherwise be in a form acceptable to the county;
      2.   An undertaking by the subdivider guaranteeing completion of the land
improvements remaining to be completed, as secured by an irrevocable letter of
credit certifying that adequate funds are and will be available at a sound and
reputable banking or financial institution as federally insured and authorized
to do business in the state of Illinois. Such irrevocable letter of credit
shall be in effect for a period of two (2) years from the date of approval of
the improvement plans, shall run in favor of the county of Ogle, and shall
indicate there are sufficient funds available for one hundred ten percent
(110%) of the estimated cost of all the land improvements remaining to be
completed, and that such funds are held for such purpose only and for no other
purposes. Such undertaking and irrevocable letter of credit shall be in a form
to allow the county to procure the funds to complete the land improvements if
construction of said improvements is not completed in accordance with the
provisions hereof, and shall otherwise be in a form acceptable to the county;
      3.   Other good and sufficient security as approved by the appropriate
legal authority of the county to guarantee the proper installation of land
improvements.
   C.   A construction guarantee shall be reduced only by authorization of the
county engineer upon:
      1.   Application for payout by the subdivider in amounts such that funds
remaining will always equal one hundred ten percent (110%) of the value of the
uncompleted work, as determined by the county engineer. No more than ninety
percent (90%) of the construction guarantee shall be released prior to one year
after the satisfactory completion of the required improvements; or
      2.   Where the required improvements have not been installed in
accordance with these regulations, the county may then declare the construction
guarantee to be in default and may draw from the guarantee amount for use in
matters related to insuring the satisfactory construction of said improvements,
including attorney fees and court costs encumbered in the enforcement of the
provisions of this section.
      3.   When all improvements have been completed, with the exception of the
final lift of bituminous surface course, the county engineer may release the
construction guarantee, and the appropriate highway agency will then accept
maintenance of the improvements. The guarantee shall be replaced by a cash
escrow in the amount of one hundred five percent (105%) of the engineer's
estimate of cost to complete the improvements. This cash escrow shall be held
by Ogle County and then utilized by the highway agency accepting the
improvements for placement of the final lift of bituminous surface course. This
final lift will be scheduled for completion by the accepting highway agency
when zoning certificates have been issued on fifty percent (50%) of the
subdivision lots.
   D.   The county engineer shall not release a construction guarantee prior to
the satisfactory installation of all required improvements, as determined:
      1.   One year after the completion of all improvements required for the
approved final plat;
      2.   After submission of the project engineer's certification, if
improvements include either a system for community water distribution or
sanitary sewer system, or both, or as otherwise required by the county
engineer, or when the project installation has been observed in the field and
completed in substantial compliance with the plans and specifications and with
all applicable ordinances and laws;
      3.   After the submission of one reproducible print and four (4) copies
of record drawings which shall be drawings prepared by the project engineer,
who shall show improvements, and shall clearly designate any and all changes
from the approved plans and specifications;
      4.   Instead of paragraph D1 of this section, after paragraph D2 of this
section, paragraph D3 of this section, placement of the first lift of
bituminous surface course and concrete, and placement of the cash escrow as
described in paragraph C3 of this section.
      5.   After the county engineer's acceptance of the improvements.
   E.   The subdivider shall be responsible for the maintenance of all capital
improvements until the release of the construction guarantee. Capital
improvements include, but may not be limited to, streets, storm sewers and
other drainage appurtenances, sanitary sewage systems and facilities, water
supply and distribution systems, street lighting equipment, unless otherwise
excepted herein, sidewalks, guardrails and landscaping. Public improvements
specifically excluded from maintenance responsibilities of the subdivider
pursuant to these regulations, upon acceptance of the improvements by the
county engineer, are the replacement of light bulbs, electricity charges for
public street lighting, snow removal and mowing of grass within a public right
of way. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-3-7: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Final Plat Procedure:
      1.   Intent: The final plat is a record of the subdivision as surveyed in
the field. It shows shapes and dimensions of the tract being subdivided and the
parcels created thereby important to the public benefit to facilitate
relocation of roadway lines, easements, building setbacks, open space, etc.
      2.   Filing: Within two (2) years after approval of the preliminary plat,
the developer shall cause to be prepared and submit to the plat officer one
mylar reproducible print, five (5) copies and one digital copy (AutoCAD format)
of the final plat. Where the subdivision is to be improved in units or phases,
the final plat for each phase shall be filed at intervals of no greater than
two (2) years in duration, providing however, that an extension request
submitted in accordance with paragraph
14-3-4D4 of this division has not been previously approved by the committee.
The final plats for the entire tract shall be filed within ten (10) years from
the date of the preliminary plat approval. The final plat shall be submitted
not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the regular meeting of the planning
and zoning committee for its review and recommendations, and approval or
disapproval. Prior to approval of the final plat by the committee, the
subdivider must have complied with the following items:
         a.   The submittal and approval of the improvement plans.
         b.   The submittal and approval of cost estimates for all required
improvements.
         c.   The installation of all required improvements or the posting of a
construction guarantee.
         d.   Payment of plat review and approval fees as determined by Ogle
County ordinance, as amended.
         e.   Rezoning to appropriate classification, if necessary.
         f.   Payment of construction inspection fees in the amount of four
percent (4%) of the engineer's estimate of the cost of improvements.
      3.   Conformance Of Final Plat: The final plat shall conform
substantially to the preliminary plat as approved and, if desired by the
subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary
plat which he proposes to record and develop at the time; provided, however,
that such portion conforms to all requirements of these regulations.
      4.   Additional Documents: The final plat shall be accompanied by all
plans and such other documents as may be necessary concerning the performance
bond or letter of credit to be used.
      5.   Approval By Other Entities: The committee shall not approve the
final plat unless, in addition to the other requirements of these regulations,
the plat has been approved in writing by the authority of any municipality with
corporate boundaries within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the platted area,
by the Illinois department of transportation with respect to roadway access,
where such access is to a state highway; by the relevant local highway
authority with respect to all other roadway access; and by the county health
department with respect to sewage disposal systems if any part of the platted
area will not be served by a public sewer system.
      6.   Committee Disapproval: If the final plat is disapproved by the
committee, it shall set forth its reasons in its own records and provide the
subdivider with a copy.
      7.   Committee Approval: If the final plat is approved by the committee,
it shall affix upon the plat the certifying signature of its chairman and
forward said plat to the county board.
      8.   County Board Decision: The county board shall approve or disapprove
the final plat, and shall set forth in its own records any reasons for
disapproval. The plat officer shall notify the subdivider in writing of the
decision of the county board.
      9.   Plat Officer Signature Of Approval: The plat officer shall not affix
his signature of approval to the final plat until all other required titles and
certificates, with the exception of the Ogle County recorder, have been
properly executed.
      10.   Recordation: The subdivider shall record one original mylar
reproducible print and six (6) copies of the plat and any required accompanying
documents with the Ogle County recorder for official recordation within six (6)
months of the date of approval by the Ogle County board. If not recorded within
this time, the approval shall become null and void.
   B.   Final Plat Requirements: The plat to be provided shall meet the
following specifications:
      1.   The final plat shall be drawn to a scale of one hundred feet to one
inch (1" = 100'), unless a different scale is more practical and is approved by
the plat officer.
      2.   The final plat shall be drawn with waterproof, nonfading black ink
on mylar or equivalent drafting material on sheets at least eight and one-half
inches by fourteen inches (81/2" x 14") but not more than thirty inches by
thirty six inches (30" x 36"). The original, plus six (6) copies of the final
plat and any accompanying documents, shall be filed with the Ogle County
recorder.
      3.   When more than one sheet is used for any plat, each sheet shall be
numbered consecutively. A small scale drawing of the entire subdivision shall
be shown on the first sheet, identifying portions for the subdivision according
to its respective page number. Plats shall be drawn so as to be on a minimum
number of sheets.
      4.   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot.
      5.   All surveys for a final plat shall be made under the active and
personal direction of a registered land surveyor of Illinois, and shall include
the following information:
         a.   Legal description of the land to be subdivided.
         b.   Positions of all lot corners, beginnings and ends of curves and
all angle points shall be marked in the field. The material of which all
markers are made shall be noted. The subdivider shall conform with the
following requirements concerning monuments:
            (1)   All federal, state, county or official bench marks,
monuments, or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the subdivision shall be
preserved. When a proposed improvement in a subdivision makes necessary the
moving of bench marks, monuments, or triangulation stations, the authority
having jurisdiction shall be notified and given sufficient time to take
appropriate action.
            (2)   Types, placement and type based on placement requirements
shall be in accordance with paragraph 14-4-1D of this chapter.
      6.   The exact length and relative direction of all exterior boundary
lines, with reference to the boundary controlling system most prevalent in the
area of the land being subdivided. All distances shown on the final plat shall
be expressed in one- hundredths of one foot (0.01') and angles shall be
expressed in degrees, minutes and seconds (if necessary). Sufficient
geometrical data shall be given for all lots to enable retracement and
restoration of all corner positions in the field. The plat officer may require
the surveyor to submit rectangular coordinates of all positions represented on
the final plat.
      7.   The exact width and extent of all easements (shown by dashed lines),
and purpose of such easements, denoted on plat roads, alleys and building
setbacks created by said subdivision.
      8.   All lots consecutively numbered. In subdivisions that are improved
in units or phases, the lot numbering system of the next unit or phase shall
begin at the next number where the previous unit or phase ended.
      9.   All portions of curving linear roads shall be tangent to adjoining
elements of said roads unless so noted otherwise. Curve data shall consist of
radius, degree of curve, tangent length, and central angle.
      10.   If the subdivision borders on a lake or stream, the distances and
directions of a meander line established not less than twenty feet (20') back
from the average high water mark of the lake or stream, as determined from
flood insurance rate maps or other data, with said distance noted.
      11.   The locations and widths of all existing and proposed roads shall
be indicated by heavy solid lines, showing the dedication of all rights of way
required in accordance with the preliminary plat.
      12.   Names of proposed roads. Road names shall not be used which will
duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other road
or subdivision in the county. Roads that are extensions of, or in obvious
alignment with existing roads shall bear the name of said existing roads. The
name of the primary collector road of a subdivision shall, if possible, be the
same as or similar to the name of said subdivision. A separate name and/or
directional designator may be required for each segment of a road that changes
direction forty five degrees (45°) or more (as measured from the centerline
right of way). The Ogle County board shall have final authority to designate
the name of the roads.
      13.   Abutting highway and road right of way lines and adjacent
subdivisions shown in their proper location.
      14.   Grantees of all lands dedicated to public use shall be clearly
noted.
      15.   Where provisions are made for access from any subdivision to any
lake or stream, the plat shall show the area over which the access is provided
to the lake or stream, together with a small scale drawing clearly indicating
the location of the subdivision in relation to the lake or stream, and the
location of the area over which access is provided.
      16.   All restrictions which will run with the land and covenants, or
references to covenants, where declared separately.
      17.   Certificates and easements as required.
      18.   Scale and north arrow.
      19.   Certificate by owner and, if required, by any mortgage holder of
record, of the plat and dedication of streets and other public areas.
      20.   Certification by the Ogle County clerk that all taxes and special
assessments have been paid to date.
      21.   Any special study or engineering calculations required.
      22.   Homeowners' association contracts, trust indenture and warranty
deed for common land conveyance, accompanied by a letter of compliance from an
attorney.
      23.   Letter from sanitary sewer company certifying connection fees have
been paid.
      24.   Certificate of city/village within one and one-half (11/2) miles
indicating approval of the plat, as set forth in paragraph A5 of this section.
      25.   Certificate of the Illinois department of transportation indicating
approval of the plat, as set forth in paragraph A5 of this section.
      26.   Seal and signature of the Illinois professional land surveyor under
whose direct supervision and control the subdivision was prepared. (Ord., 9-19-
2000)
14-3-8: OUTSIDE CONSULTANTS:
During the plat review process and during installation and acceptance of the
required improvements, the plat officer and/or county engineer may engage
professional assistance other than the staff, in area(s) where staff does not
have sufficient time or expertise to properly review or observe the improvement
proposed by the subdivider. The subdivider shall be notified in writing that
such professional assistance will be engaged. Prior to such review or
observation, the subdivider may meet with the plat officer and/or county
engineer in order to discuss the activity. In addition, the subdivider shall
reimburse the county for reasonable costs associated with such professional
review assistance. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-3-9: TRUST INDENTURES AND PROPERTY/UNIT OWNERS' ASSOCIATION (CONDOMINIUMS):
   A.   In any case where the developer proposes the establishment of common
land (including pedestrian walkways and cul-de-sac islands), private streets,
private street lighting, drainage facilities such as detention basins and
drainage pipe and ditches, private sanitary sewage treatment, private water
distribution system, or any other improvement that requires continuous
maintenance, a trust indenture shall be established and recorded simultaneously
with the final plat. The indenture shall provide for proper maintenance and
supervision by the trustees who are selected to act in accordance with the
terms of such indenture and the applicable provisions of this chapter. For
single lot developments and developments with no common ground, the plat
officer may accept script certifying the means of maintenance on the final
plat. Common land shall be conveyed by the owner in fee simple absolute title
by warranty deed to trustees whose trust indentures shall provide that the
common land be used for the benefit, use and enjoyment of the lot owners,
present and future, and shall be the maintenance responsibility of the trustees
of the subdivision and that no lot owner shall have the right to convey his
interest in the common land except as an incident of the ownership of a
regularly platted lot.
      1.   Any trust indenture required to be recorded for the purpose of
compliance with provisions of these regulations, or the Ogle County amendatory
zoning ordinance, shall provide for not less than the following representation
of purchasers of developed lots among the trustees; one-third (1/3) of the
trustees shall be chosen by purchasers of developed lots after fifty percent
(50%) of the lots have been sold; two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees shall be
chosen by purchasers of developed lots after ninety five percent (95%) of the
lots have been sold; all of the trustees shall be chosen by purchasers of
developed lots after all of the lots have been sold.
      2.   Where the provisions of such a trust indenture cannot be fulfilled
by reason of unfilled vacancies among the trustees, the committee may, upon the
petition of any concerned resident or property owner of the subdivision,
appoint one or more trustees to fill vacancies until such time as trustees are
selected in accordance with the trust indenture. Any person so appointed who is
not a resident or property owner within the subdivision shall not be subject to
any limitation on special assessments contained in the trust indenture or
elsewhere.
      3.   Term of indentures for all types of subdivisions, including planned
districts and special procedures, shall be for the duration of the subdivision
or planned development. In the event the subdivision is vacated, fee simple
title shall vest in the then lot or unit owners as tenants in common. The
rights of the tenants shall only be exercisable appurtenant to and in
conjunction with their lot or unit ownership.
Any conveyance or change of ownership of any lot or unit shall convey with its
ownership in the common land, and no interest in the common land shall be
conveyed by a lot or unit owner except in conjunction with the sale of a lot or
unit. The sale of any lot or unit shall carry with it all the incidents of
ownership of the common land although such is not expressly mentioned in the
deed; provided, however, that no right or power conferred upon the trustees
shall be abrogated.
   B.   In the case of a condominium development, a unit owners' association
shall be established in accordance with the laws of the state of Illinois. A
formal declaration (condominium bylaws), establishing covenants, conditions,
restrictions, easements, etc., shall be filed simultaneously with the final
plat in addition to the trust indentures. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
DIVISION 4
REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS, RESERVATIONS, AND DESIGN
SECTION:
14-4-1: General Improvements
14-4-2: Lot Improvements
14-4-3: Roads
14-4-4: Drainage And Storm Sewers
14-4-5: Water Facilities
14-4-6: Sewerage Facilities
14-4-7: Utilities
14-4-8: Preservation Of Natural Features And Amenities
14-4-9: Nonresidential Subdivisions
14-4-1: GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Conformance To Applicable Rules And Regulations: In addition to the
requirements established in these regulations, all subdivision plats shall
comply with the following laws, rules, and regulations:
      1.   All applicable statutory provisions.
      2.   The Ogle County amendatory zoning ordinance, special flood hazard
areas ordinance, comprehensive stormwater management ordinance and all other
applicable laws of the appropriate jurisdictions.
      3.   The Ogle County amendatory comprehensive plan.
      4.   The special requirements of these regulations and any rules of the
health department and/or appropriate state or substate agencies.
      5.   The rules of the Illinois department of transportation if the
subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state highway or connecting
street.
      6.   The standards and regulations adopted by the county engineer and all
boards, commissions, agencies, and officials of the county of Ogle.
      7.   Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in conformity
with the above laws, regulations, guidelines, and policies as well as the
purposes of these regulations established in section
14-1-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Adequate Public Facilities: No preliminary plat shall be approved
unless the committee determines that public facilities will be adequate to
support and service the area of the proposed subdivision. The applicant shall,
at the request of the committee, submit sufficient information and data on the
proposed subdivision to demonstrate the expected impact on and use of public
facilities by possible uses of said subdivision. Public facilities and services
to be examined for adequacy will include, but are not necessarily limited to,
roads and public transportation facilities, sewerage, water service, schools,
police and fire protection.
      1.   Impact On Public Facilities And Services: The applicant for a
preliminary plat must, at the request of the committee, submit sufficient
information and data on the proposed subdivision to demonstrate the expected
impact on and use of public facilities and services by possible uses of said
subdivision.
      2.   Wastewater: All habitable buildings and buildable lots shall be
served by an approved means of wastewater collection and/or treatment.
      3.   Stormwater Management: Drainage improvements shall accommodate
potential runoff from the entire upstream drainage area and shall be designed
to prevent increases in downstream flooding pursuant to the Ogle County,
Illinois, comprehensive stormwater management ordinance adopted February 22,
1999. The county may require the use of control methods such as retention or
detention, and/or the construction of off site drainage improvements to
mitigate the impacts of the proposed developments.
      4.   Roads: Proposed roads shall provide a safe, convenient, and
functional system for vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle circulation, and shall
be appropriate for the particular traffic characteristics of each proposed
development.
      5.   Extension Policies: All public improvements and required easements
shall be extended through the parcel on which new development is proposed.
Streets, water lines, wastewater systems, drainage facilities, electric lines,
and telecommunications lines shall be constructed through new development to
promote the logical extension of public infrastructure. The county may require
the applicant of a subdivision to extend off site improvements to reach the
subdivision or oversize required public facilities to serve anticipated future
development as a condition of plat approval.
   C.   Self-Imposed Restrictions: If the owner places restrictions on any of
the land contained in the subdivision greater than those required by the zoning
ordinance or these regulations, such restrictions or reference to those
restrictions may be required to be indicated on the subdivision plat, or the
committee may require that restrictive covenants be recorded with the Ogle
County recorder in a form to be approved by the Ogle County state's attorney.
   D.   Monuments: The applicant shall place permanent reference monuments in
the subdivision as required in these regulations and as approved by a
registered professional land surveyor.
      1.   Monuments shall be located on street right of way lines, at street
intersections, angle points of curve and block corners. They shall be spaced so
as to be within sight of each other, the sight lines being contained wholly
within the street limits.
      2.   The external boundaries of a subdivision shall be monumented in the
field by monuments of stone or concrete, not less than thirty inches (30") in
length, not less than four inches (4") square or five inches (5") in diameter,
and marked on top with a cross, brass plug, iron rod, or other durable material
securely embedded; or by iron rods or pipes at least thirty inches (30") long
and one-half inch (1/2") in diameter. These monuments shall be placed not more
than one thousand four hundred feet (1,400') apart in any straight line and at
all corners, at each end of all curves, at the point where a curve changes its
radius, at all angle points in any line, and at all angle points along the
meander line, those points to be not less than twenty feet (20') back from the
bank of any river or stream, except that when such corners or points fall
within a street, or proposed future street, the monuments shall be placed in
the side line of the street.
      3.   All internal boundaries and those corners and points not referred to
in the preceding paragraph shall be monumented in the field by like monuments
as described above. These monuments shall be placed at all block corners, at
each end of all curves, at a point where a river changes its radius, and at all
angle points in any line.
      4.   The lines of lots that extend to rivers or streams shall be
monumented in the field by iron pipes at least thirty inches (30") long and
seven-eighths inch (7/8") in diameter or by round or square iron bars at least
thirty inches (30") long. These monuments shall be placed at the point of
intersection of the river or stream lot line, with a meander line established
not less than twenty feet (20') back from the bank of the river or stream.
      5.   All monuments required by these regulations shall be set flush with
the ground and planted in such a manner that they will not be removed by frost.
      6.   All monuments shall be properly set in the ground and approved by a
registered land surveyor prior to recordation of the final plat.
   E.   Character Of The Land: Land that the committee finds to be unsuitable
for subdivision or development due to flooding, improper drainage, steep
slopes, rock formations, adverse earth formations or topography, utility
easements, or other features that will reasonably be harmful to safety, health,
and general welfare of the present or future inhabitants of the subdivision
and/or its surrounding areas, shall not be subdivided or developed unless
adequate methods are formulated by the developer and approved by the committee,
upon recommendation of the county engineer, to solve the problems created by
the unsuitable land conditions. Such land shall be set aside for uses as shall
not involve any danger to public health, safety, and welfare.
   F.   Subdivider To Provide And Install: The subdivider shall provide and
install all public improvements as required by these regulations. Improvements
shall be provided and installed in accordance with the standards and
engineering requirements established by these regulations as well as any and
all standards and requirements adopted by other local, state and/or federal
authorities which may have jurisdiction of the area being subdivided.
   G.   Engineering Drawings Required: The subdivider shall prepare and file
engineering drawings of the subdivision in accordance with the regulations of
section
14-3-5 of this chapter.
   H.   Minimum Standards And Specifications: All construction of improvements
covered by these regulations shall be in accordance with, and materials used
shall be in compliance with, the methods and materials required in the
appropriate sections of the latest editions, amendments or revisions of the
following:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", Illinois
department of transportation;
      2.   "Design Manual", Illinois department of transportation;
      3.   "Highway Standards", Illinois department of public works and
building division;
      4.   "Culvert Manual", Illinois department of transportation;
      5.   "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", U.S. department of
transportation and Illinois department of transportation supplement;
      6.   "Bureau Of Local Roads And Streets Administrative Policies",
Illinois department of transportation;
      7.   "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois", Illinois Society Of Professional Engineers, et al.;
      8.   "Illinois Design Standards For Sewage Works", Illinois environmental
protection agency, division of public water pollution control;
      9.   "Technical Policy Statements", Illinois environmental protection
agency, division of public water supply;
      10.   "Recommended Standards For Water Works", Great Lakes Upper
Mississippi River board of state sanitary engineers ("10 States Standards");
      11.   "Procedures And Standards For Urban Soil Erosion And Sedimentation
Control In Illinois", the Urban Committee Of The Association Of Illinois Soil
And Water Conservation Districts ("Green Book");
      12.   "Standards And Specifications For Soil Erosion And Sediment
Control", Illinois environmental protection agency ("Yellow Book");
      13.   "U.S. Soil Conservation Service (Natural Resources Conservation
Service) Field Engineering Handbook", United States department of agriculture,
natural resources conservation service;
      14.   County standards and specifications as adopted.
   I.   Inspections: Unless otherwise excepted herein, all public improvements
proposed to be made under the provisions of these regulations shall be
inspected during the course of construction by the county engineer or his
designee. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-4-2: LOT IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Lot Arrangement: The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be
no foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in
securing zoning permits and septic system installation permits to build on all
lots in compliance with the zoning ordinance and health regulations and in
providing driveway access to buildings on the lots from an approved street.
   B.   Lot Dimensions: Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards
of the zoning ordinance. Where lots are more than double the minimum required
area for the zoning district, the committee may require that those lots be
arranged so as to allow further subdivision and the opening of future streets
where they would be necessary to serve potential lots, all in compliance with
the zoning ordinance and these regulations. In general, side lot lines shall be
at right angles to street lines (or radial to curving street lines) unless a
variation from this rule will give a better street or lot plan. Dimensions of
corner lots shall be large enough to allow for erection of buildings, observing
the minimum required building setback from both streets. Depth and width of
properties reserved or laid out for business, commercial, or industrial
purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off street parking and loading
facilities required for the type of use and development contemplated, as
established in the zoning ordinance.
   C.   Lot Orientation: The lot line common to the street right of way shall
be the front line. All lots shall face the front line and a similar line across
the street. Wherever feasible, lots shall be arranged so that the rear line
does not abut the side line of an adjacent lot.
   D.   Double Frontage Lots And Access To Lots:
      1.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage and reversed frontage lots
shall be avoided except where necessary to provide separation of residential
development from traffic arterials or to overcome specific disadvantage of
topography and orientation.
      2.   Access From Major And Secondary Arterials: Lots shall not, in
general, derive access exclusively from a major or secondary street. Where
driveway access from a major or secondary street may be necessary for several
adjoining lots, the committee may require that such lots be served by a
combined access drive in order to limit possible traffic hazards on the street.
Where possible, driveways should be designed and arranged so as to avoid
requiring vehicles to back into traffic on major and secondary arterials.
   E.   Lot Drainage: Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage
away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with
the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so
as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent
lots.
   F.   Debris And Waste: No cut trees, timber, debris, rocks, stones, junk,
rubbish, or other waste materials of any kind shall be buried in any land, or
left or deposited on any lot or street at the time of expiration of any
subdivision improvement agreement or dedication of public improvements,
whichever is sooner.
   G.   Water Bodies And Watercourses: If a tract being subdivided contains a
water body, or portion thereof, lot lines shall be so drawn as to distribute
the entire ownership of the water body among the fees of adjacent lots. The
committee may approve an alternative plan whereby the ownership of and
responsibility for safe maintenance of the water body is so placed that it will
not become a local government responsibility. No more than twenty five percent
(25%) of the minimum area of a lot required under the zoning ordinance may be
satisfied by land that is underwater. Where a watercourse separates the
buildable area of a lot from the street by which it has access, provisions
shall be made for installation of a culvert or other structure, of design
approved by the county engineer.
   H.   Reduced Building Envelopes:
      1.   Reduced building envelopes should be used:
         a.   In any subdivision that contains natural areas, steep slopes,
wetlands, floodplains or other areas that should not be disturbed;
         b.   In any subdivision that will utilize private, on site sewage
disposal systems.
      2.   Reduced building envelopes shall restrict the area that the dwelling
may be located to the most suitable location on the lot, avoiding the area(s)
of the lot that contain soils most suitable for sewage treatment, steep slopes,
wetlands, floodplains, or other areas that should not be disturbed.
      3.   When reduced building envelopes are used, the lines that define the
reduced building envelope shall become the required building setback and yard
area lines that shall not be encroached upon by lot development.
      4.   When reduced building envelopes are utilized, the required building
setback may be reduced up to, but not more than, twenty five percent (25%).
(Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-4-3: ROADS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Frontage On Improved Roads: Wherever the area to be subdivided is to
utilize existing road frontage, the road shall be suitably improved as required
by the county engineer.
      2.   Grading And Improvement Plan: Roads shall be graded and improved and
conform to the county construction standards and specifications and shall be
approved as to design and specifications by the county engineer, in accordance
with the construction plans required to be submitted prior to final plat
approval.
      3.   Classification: All roads shall be classified as either arterial
(state or federal highways), major collector, minor collector or local. In
classifying roads, the county shall consider projected traffic demands after
twenty (20) years of development.
      4.   Topography And Arrangement:
         a.   Roads shall be related appropriately to the topography. Local
roads shall be curved wherever possible to avoid conformity of lot appearance.
All streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many building sites as
possible at, or above, the grades of the streets. Grades of streets shall
conform as closely as possible to the original topography. A combination of
steep grades and curves shall be avoided. Specific standards are contained in
the design standards of these regulations.
         b.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
any proposed systems of thoroughfares and dedicated rights of way as
established by the county.
         c.   All collectors shall be properly related to special traffic
generators such as industries, business districts, schools, churches, and
shopping centers; to population densities; and to the pattern of existing and
proposed land uses.
         d.   Minor or local streets shall be laid out to conform as much as
possible to the topography to discourage use by through traffic, to permit
efficient drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of
streets necessary to provide convenient and safe access to property.
         e.   The use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs, or U-shaped streets
shall be encouraged where such use will result in a more desirable layout.
         f.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless in the opinion of the county engineer such extension is
not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the
subdivision with the existing layout or the most advantageous future
development of adjacent tracts.
         g.   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas, and walks and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of
movement between the various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
      5.   Blocks:
         a.   Width: Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2)
tiers of lots of appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width
shall be permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads, or
waterways.
         b.   Length: The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be such
as are appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated,
but block lengths in residential areas shall not exceed two thousand two
hundred feet (2,200') or twelve (12) times the minimum lot width required in
the zoning district, nor be less than four hundred feet (400') in length.
Wherever practicable, blocks along major arterials and collector streets shall
be not less than one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
         c.   Easements: In long blocks the committee may require the
reservation of an easement through the block to accommodate utilities, drainage
facilities, or pedestrian traffic.
         d.   Pedestrianways: Pedestrianways or crosswalks, not less than ten
feet (10') wide, may be required by the committee through the center of blocks
more than eight hundred feet (800') long where deemed essential to provide
circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation, or other community facilities. Blocks designed for industrial
uses shall be of such length and width as may be determined suitable by the
committee for prospective use.
         e.   Access To Primary Arterials: Where a subdivision borders on or
contains an existing or proposed collector, the committee may require that
access to such streets be limited by one of the following means:
            (1)   The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the primary
arterial and front onto a parallel local street; no access shall be provided
from the primary arterial, and screening shall be provided from the primary
arterial, and screening shall be provided in a strip of land along the rear
property line of such lots.
            (2)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets, or short loops
entered from and designed generally at right angles to such a parallel street,
with the rear lines of their terminal lots backing onto the primary arterial.
            (3)   A marginal access or service road (separated from the primary
arterial by a planting or grass strip and having access at suitable points).
         f.   Road Regulatory Signs: The subdivider shall install all road
signs. Street name signs are to be placed at all intersections within or
abutting the subdivision, the type and location of which to be approved by the
county engineer.
         g.   Streetlights: Installation of streetlights may be required in
accordance with design and specification standards approved by the county
engineer.
         h.   Reserve Strips: The creation of reserve strips shall not be
permitted adjacent to a proposed street in such a manner as to deny access from
adjacent property to the street.
         i.   Construction Of Roads And Dead End Roads:
            (1)   Construction Of Roads: The arrangement of streets shall
provide for the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties
when the continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic,
effective fire protection for efficient provision of utilities, and where the
continuation is in accordance with any county traffic plan. If the adjacent
property is undeveloped and the street must temporarily be a dead end street,
the right of way shall be extended to the property line. A temporary dead end
street, with the notation on the subdivision plat that land outside the normal
street right of way shall revert to abuttors whenever the street is continued.
      The committee may limit the length of temporary dead end streets in
accordance with the design standards of these regulations.
            (2)   Dead End Roads (Permanent): Where a road does not extend
beyond the boundary of the subdivision and its continuation is not required by
the committee for access to adjoining property, its terminus shall normally not
be nearer to such boundary than fifty feet (50'). However, the committee may
require the reservation of an appropriate easement to accommodate drainage
facilities, pedestrian traffic, or utilities. A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be
provided at the end of a permanent dead end street in accordance with county
construction standards and specifications. For greater convenience to traffic
and more effective police and fire protection, permanent dead end streets
shall, in general, serve no more than twenty (20) lots or be designed to
accommodate a maximum two hundred (200) average daily traffic (ADT).
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   General: In order to provide for roads of suitable location, width,
and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory
access to police, firefighting and other emergency vehicles, snow removal,
sanitation, and road maintenance equipment, and to coordinate roads so as to
compose a convenient system and avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties,
the following design standard for roads are hereby required.
      2.   Road Surfacing And Improvements:
         a.   All new roads/streets which are created and dedicated for use
within a subdivision shall be graded, drained and surfaced in accordance with
the minimum requirements herein set forth and in a manner which will provide
complete and adequate drainage of all streets, alleys and public grounds in the
entire subdivision, including any such work which may be necessary in order to
provide adequate and satisfactory drainage along the side of any existing
street which is adjacent to the subdivision. In general, all such new streets
within the subdivision and all work to be undertaken thereon shall be designed
and constructed according to the specifications adopted by the division of
highways of the Illinois department of transportation, as the same are in
effect at the time of the preliminary plat and plans for such improvement work
are submitted for approval.
         b.   The roadway shall be considered to be that part of the
improvement which lies within the right of way and shall be constructed
substantially in accordance with the typical cross section as found below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8cbdc74f25c0bb23ffc3ff321ceef40f95041f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1309.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8cbdc74f25c0bb23ffc3ff321ceef40f95041f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1311.gif]
         c.   The type of roadway surface used in the development may be
influenced by the type of roadway surface of the road being accessed by the
development. Should the accessed road be planned for improvement within four
(4) years of approval of the development, the county engineer will consider the
surface of the road being accessed to be that of the higher surface type. The
highway agency ultimately responsible for maintenance of the constructed roads
may request the county engineer to require the higher surface type be
constructed.
      3.   Street Construction Standards: All streets shall be constructed in
conformance with the "minimum standards for street construction" tables A, B
and C of this section.
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STREET DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
Table A
Streets With Curb And Gutter1,2
                 Pavement Radius Of               Length Of Tangents
Street ROW Width Width3   Horizontal Ditch Slopes Vertical  Between Reverse
                          Curves                  Curves    Curves
                                   Radius Of               Length Of Tangents
Street       ROW Width   Pavement  Horizontal Ditch Slopes Vertical  Between
                         Width3    Curves                  Curves    Reverse
                                                                     Curves
Expressways  n/a         8' median n/a        n/a          n/a       n/a
Major        100'        48' 4     546'       4:1          200'      200'
Collector    66 - 80'    36'       400'       4:1          200'      150'
Minor for
single-      66'         36'       250'       3:1          100'      100'
family
residence
Cul-de-sac   128'        108'      n/a        3:1          n/a       n/a
Marginal     60'         30'       250'       3:1          100'      100'
access5
Business and
industrial   80 - 100' 6 48' 6     500'       4:1          200'      200'
districts
 
Notes:
    1.    All roadways shall be improved with a minimum of a 2.5 inch
bituminous wearing surface over a 10 inch compacted base of aggregate surface
course, type B in accordance with the "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction" published by the Illinois department of transportation.
Final design of pavement shall be determined by pavement design procedures
published by the Illinois department of transportation.
    2.    Minimum standards for these streets shall be as indicated or as
determined by the county engineer.
    3.    Pavement width (pavement surface) is face to face of curb where curb
and gutter is provided.
    4.    Or 2 24-foot wide roadways, divided by a median strip.
    5.    Where the ditch of the adjoining highway is utilized the right of way
width may be reduced to 50 feet if deemed feasible by the county engineer.
    6.    May be reduced upon review of the use by the county engineer.
Table B
Streets Without Curb And Gutter1,2
 
                                        Radius Of         Length Of Tangents
Street     ROW Width   Roadway Pavement Horizontal Ditch  Vertical  Between
                       Width   Width3,5 Curves     Slopes Curves    Reverse
                                                                    Curves
Major      80'         48' 4   24'      546'       4:1    200'      200'
Minor for
single-    66'         32'     22'      250'       3:1    100'      100'
family
residence
Cul-de-sac 128'        98'     88'      n/a        3:1    n/a       n/a
Marginal   60'         30'     22'      250'       3:1    100'      100'
access4
Business
and        80 - 100' 6 n/a     48'      500'       4:1    200'      200'
industrial
districts
 
Notes:
    1.    All roadways shall be improved with a minimum of a bituminous surface
treatment, class A-3 surface over a 12 inch compacted aggregate base course or
hot mix asphalt surface over a 10 inch compacted aggregate base course (base
shall be 2 feet wider than surface), type B in accordance with the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" published by the Illinois
department of transportation. Final design of pavement shall be determined by
pavement design procedures published by the Illinois department of
transportation.
    2.    Minimum standards for these streets shall be as indicated or as
determined by the county engineer.
    3.    Pavement width is pavement surface.
    4.    Where the ditch of the adjoining highway is utilized the right of way
width may be reduced to 50 feet if deemed feasible by the county engineer.
    5.    Pavement width may be reduced to a minimum of 20 feet if acceptable
to the township road commissioner and county engineer.
    6.    May be reduced upon review of the use by the county engineer.
Table C
 
                                                  Clear Sight Tangent Property
Street          Maximum Gradient Minimum Gradient Distance    Line At Street
                                                              Intersection
Major           6%               0.5%             650'        20'
Collector1      6%               0.5%             525'        20'
Minor for
single- family  8%               0.5%             310'        15'
residences
Cul-de-sacs     5% 2             0.5%             310'        15'
Marginal access 6%               0.5%             310'        15'
In business and
industrial      2%               0.5%             525'        n/a
districts
 
Notes:
    1.    Minimum standards for these streets shall be as indicated or as
determined by the county engineer.
    2.    The maximum gradient for the closed end of the cul-de-sac shall not
exceed 4 percent or as determined by the county engineer.
      4.   Excess Right Of Way: Right of way widths in excess of the standards
designated in these regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes
shall not be in excess of two to one (2:1).
      5.   Railroads And Limited Access Highways: Railroad rights of way and
limited access highways where so located as to affect the subdivision of
adjoining lands shall be treated as follows:
         a.   In residential districts a buffer strip at least twenty five feet
(25') in depth in addition to the normal area of the lot required in the
district shall be provided adjacent to the railroad right of way or limited
access highway. This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be
designated on the plat:
            This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of structure on
this land is prohibited.
         b.   In districts zoned for business, commercial, or industrial uses
the nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
right of way shall, wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance from the
railroad right of way to ensure suitable depth for commercial or industrial
sites.
         c.   When streets parallel to the railroad right of way intersect a
street which crosses the railroad right of way at grade, they shall, to the
extent practicable, be at a distance of at least one hundred fifty feet (150')
from the railroad right of way. Such distance shall be determined with due
consideration of the minimum distance required for future separation of grades
by means of appropriate approach gradients.
      6.   Intersections:
         a.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles. A proposed intersection of two (2) new streets at an
angle of less than seventy five degrees (75°) shall not be acceptable. An
oblique street should be curved approaching an intersection and should be
approximately at right angles for at least one hundred feet (100') therefrom.
Not more than two (2) streets shall intersect at any one point unless
specifically approved by the county engineer.
         b.   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
one hundred fifty feet (150') shall not be permitted, except where the
intersected street has separated dual drives without median breaks at either
intersection. Where local streets intersect major streets, their alignment
shall be continuous. Intersection of major streets shall be at least eight
hundred feet (800') apart.
         c.   Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two (2) local streets
shall be in accordance with current design standards of the Illinois department
of transportation. Alley intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within a
block shall have the corners cut off in accordance with standard engineering
practice to permit safe vehicular movement.
         d.   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a
leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a two percent (2%) rate
at a distance of sixty feet (60'), measured from the nearest right of way line
of the intersecting street.
         e.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or
existing vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by
limiting visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation
(including trees) in connection with the grading of the public right of way to
the extent deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
         f.   The cross slopes on all streets, including intersections, shall
be three percent (3%) or less.
   C.   Road Dedications And Reservations:
      1.   New Perimeter Streets: Street systems in new subdivisions shall be
laid out so as to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half streets. Where an
existing half street is adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the
street shall be improved and dedicated by the subdivider. The committee may
authorize a new perimeter street where the subdivider improves and dedicates
the entire required street right of way width within its own subdivision
boundaries.
      2.   Widening And Realignment Of Existing Roads: Where a subdivision
borders an existing narrow road or when any highway authority plans for
realignment or widening a road that would require use of some of the land in
the subdivision, the applicant shall be required to improve and dedicate at its
expense those areas for widening or realignment of those roads. Frontage roads
and streets as described above shall be improved and dedicated by the applicant
at its own expense to the full width as required by these regulations when the
applicant's development activities contribute to the need for the road
expansion. Land reserved for any road purposes may not be counted in satisfying
yard or area requirements of the zoning ordinance whether the land is to be
dedicated to the county in fee simple or an easement is granted to the county.
   D.   Private Roads: Private roads and streets may be permitted only if the
final (ultimate) development will contain not more than three (3) lots.
Provisions for ownership and maintenance of said road shall accompany the plat.
(Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-4-4: DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS:
   A.   General Requirements: The committee shall not recommend for approval
any plat of subdivision that does not make adequate provision for storm and
flood water runoff channels or basins pursuant to the Ogle County, Illinois,
comprehensive stormwater management ordinance adopted February 11, 1999, as
amended. The stormwater drainage system shall be separate and independent of
any sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by
methodology required by the comprehensive stormwater management ordinance, or
other methods as approved by the county engineer, and a copy of design
computations shall be submitted along with plans. Inlets shall be provided so
that surface water is not carried across or around any intersection, nor for a
distance of more than six hundred feet (600') in the gutter. When calculations
indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a point, no further allowance
shall be made for flow beyond that point, and basins shall be used to intercept
flow at that point. Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown for each and
every lot and block.
   B.   Nature Of Stormwater Facilities:
      1.   Location: The applicant may be required by the committee to carry
away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist either
previously to, or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage facilities
shall be located in the road right of way where feasible, or in perpetual
unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be constructed in
accordance with the construction standards and specifications.
      2.   Accessibility To Public Storm Sewers:
         a.   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall
install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance, adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of stormwaters,
subject to the specifications of the county engineer. However, in subdivisions
containing lots less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet in area and in
business and industrial districts, underground storm sewer systems shall be
constructed throughout the subdivision and be constructed to an approved
outfall. Inspection of facilities shall be conducted by the county engineer or
his designee.
         b.   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided
eventually, as determined by the county engineer and the committee, the
developer shall make arrangements for future stormwater disposal by a public
utility system at the time the plat received final approval. Provision for such
connection shall be incorporated by inclusion in the subdivision improvement
agreement required for the subdivision plat.
      3.   Accommodation Of Upstream Drainage Areas: A culvert or other
drainage facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The county engineer shall approve the necessary size of the
facility, based on the provisions of the construction standards and
specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed development
permitted by the zoning ordinance.
      4.   Special Flood Hazard Areas And Areas Of Poor Drainage: Whenever a
plat is submitted for an area that is subject to flooding, whether indicated as
being a "special flood hazard area" by the Ogle County, Illinois, flood
insurance rate maps or not, the committee may approve such subdivision provided
that the applicant fills the affected area of the subdivision to an elevation
sufficient to place the elevation of streets and lots at a minimum of twelve
inches (12") above the elevation of the 100-year floodplain, as determined by
the county engineer. Any and all development activity proposed to be located in
an area designated as a "special flood hazard area" shall be subject to the
requirements of the Ogle County, Illinois, flood damage prevention ordinance
and any applicable state and/or federal requirements. The committee may, when
it deems it necessary for the health, safety, or welfare of the present and
future population of the area and necessary to the conservation of water,
drainage, and sanitary facilities, prohibit the subdivision of any portion of
the property that lies within the floodplain of any stream or drainage course.
These floodplain areas shall be preserved from any and all destruction or
damage resulting from clearing, grading, or dumping of earth, waste material,
or stumps, except at the discretion of the committee.
   C.   Dedication Of Drainage Easements:
      1.   General Requirements: When a subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainageway, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a
stormwater easement or drainage right of way conforming substantially to the
lines of such watercourse, and of such width and construction as will be
adequate for the purpose. Wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage
be maintained by an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for
maximum potential volume of flow.
      2.   Drainage Easements:
         a.   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights of way,
perpetual, unobstructed easements at least fifteen feet (15') in width for
drainage facilities shall be provided across property outside the road lines
and with satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the
plat. Drainage easements shall extend from the road to a natural watercourse or
to other drainage facilities.
         b.   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
         c.   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by a drainage or
conservation easement, land on both sides of existing watercourses to a
distance to be determined by the county engineer.
         d.   Low lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as
drainageways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be
computed in determining the number of lots to be utilized for average density
procedures nor for computing the area requirement of any lot. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-4-5: WATER FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   When a public water main is not accessible, the developer shall take
necessary action to extend or create a water supply district for the purpose of
providing a water supply system capable of providing for domestic water use and
fire protection.
      2.   When a public water main is accessible, the developer shall install
adequate water facilities (including fire hydrants) subject to the
specifications of state or local authorities. All water mains shall be at least
six inches (6") in diameter.
      3.   Water main extensions shall be approved by the officially designated
agency of the state or local government.
      4.   The location of all fire hydrants, all water supply improvements,
and the boundary lines of proposed districts, indicating all improvements
proposed to be served, shall be shown on the preliminary plat, and the cost of
installing same shall be borne by the developer and included in the subdivision
improvement agreement and security to be furnished by the developer.
   B.   Individual Wells And Central Water Systems:
      1.   When a public water system is not accessible in the discretion of
the committee, individual wells may be used or a central water system provided
in a manner so that an adequate supply of potable water will be available to
every lot in the subdivision. Water samples shall be submitted to the health
department for its approval, and individual wells and central water systems
shall be approved by the appropriate health authorities. Approvals shall be
submitted to the committee prior to final subdivision plat approval.
      2.   If the committee requires that a connection to a public water main
be eventually provided as a condition to approval of an individual well or
central water system, the applicant shall make arrangements prior to receiving
final plat approval for future water service, including a private well
abandonment plan. Performance or cash bonds may be required to ensure
compliance.
   C.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions
except those coming under paragraph B of this section. Fire hydrants shall be
located no more than one thousand feet (1,000') apart and within five hundred
feet (500') of any structure and shall be approved by the applicable fire
protection district.
To eliminate future street openings, all underground utilities for fire
hydrants, together with the fire hydrants themselves, and all other supply
improvements shall be installed before any final paving of a street shown on
the subdivision plat. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-4-6: SEWERAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: The applicant shall install sanitary sewer
facilities in a manner prescribed by the county construction standards and
specifications where public sewage treatment facilities are reasonably
accessible. All plans shall be signed and approved in accordance with the
rules, regulations, and standards of the county engineer, health department,
and any and all other appropriate local and/or state agencies. Necessary action
shall be taken by the applicant to extend or create a sanitary sewer district
for the purpose of providing sewerage facilities to the subdivision when no
district exists for the land to be subdivided.
   B.   Individual And Central Sewage Systems: When public sanitary sewerage
systems are not reasonably accessible but will become available within a
reasonable time (not to exceed 10 years), the applicant may choose one of the
following alternatives:
      1.   Central sewerage system with the maintenance cost to be assessed
against each property benefited. Where plans for future public sanitary
sewerage systems exist, the applicant shall install the sewer lines, laterals,
and mains to be in permanent conformance with such plans and ready for
connection to such public sewer mains; or
      2.   Private (individual) sewage disposal systems in accordance with
paragraph A of this section, provided the applicant shall install sanitary
sewer lines, laterals, and mains from the street curb to a point in the
subdivision boundary where a future connection with the public sanitary sewer
main shall be made. Sanitary sewer lines shall be laid from the house to the
street line. A connection shall be available in the home to connect to the
sewer system when the public sewers become available. Such sanitary sewer
systems shall be capped until ready for use and shall conform to all plans for
installation of the public sanitary sewer system, where such exist, and shall
be ready for connection to such public sanitary sewer main.
   C.   Individual (Private) Sewage Disposal Systems:
      1.   No Facilities Accessible: Where no public sewage treatment
facilities are reasonably accessible, individual sewage disposal systems may be
installed provided:
         a.   All requirements of the Ogle County health department are
complied with.
         b.   As soon as public sewers are located within two hundred feet
(200') from the external boundaries of the subdivision, connections to the
public sewer(s) will be made within one year at the property owners' expense,
and owners shall bear their fair proportionate share of the cost of public
sewer as determined by agreement, special assessment proceedings or other means
authorized to finance construction of sewer systems.
      Private covenants/restrictions shall be filed with the final plat and
incorporated in each deed reflecting this requirement.
      2.   Determining Reasonable Accessibility: For the purposes of
determining reasonable accessibility of public sewage treatment facilities, a
number of factors shall be considered including, but not necessarily limited
to, the following:
         a.   Local and/or regional plans for the sewage treatment facilities'
use and development relative to its existing and anticipated capacity.
         b.   Distance of existing sewage treatment facilities from the
external boundary of the proposed property development.
         c.   Scope and proposed land uses of the proposed property
development.
         d.   Existence of manmade or natural barriers between the subject
sewage treatment facilities and the proposed subdivision.
         e.   Topographic features of the immediate and surrounding area.
      3.   Reserved Areas For Primary And Secondary Individual (Private) Sewage
Disposal Systems: When individual (private) sewage disposal systems are
proposed for the treatment of private sewage, every lot shall have one area, or
not more than two (2) areas, of contiguous, suitable soil reserved for the
installation of a primary subsurface absorption system and a secondary
(replacement) subsurface absorption system. Said area(s) shall be clearly
delineated and labeled on the preliminary plat. Suitable soils are those soils
classified as category 1, 1A or 2 pursuant to the Ogle County health code.
Those soils with moderate, severe or very severe limitations for subsurface
absorption systems (category 3 and 4) shall not be included in the reserved
areas for subsurface absorption systems. Class I or class II aerobic treatment
systems shall not be substituted for subsurface absorption systems in soils
with moderate or severe limitations for subsurface absorption systems.
         a.   The soil types listed below (category 1 and 1A) are suitable for
installation of subsurface absorption systems and require a reserved area of
not less than nine thousand (9,000) square feet, or not more than two (2)
reserved areas of not less than four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet
in area each.
            CATEGORY 1 SOIL TYPES
21B  36B   243C2 363C2 412C2 570C2
21C2 36C2  280B  386A  416B  570D2
21D2 105B  280C2 386B  416C2 728C2
22C2 199A  280D2 387A  440A   
22D2 199B  361B  387B  440B   
24B  199C2 361C2 398A  440C2  
24C2 243A  361D2 398B  570A   
36A  243B  363B  412B  570B   
 
            CATEGORY 1A SOIL TYPES
 
87B 175B 327B 742C 919C 939E
87C 175C 727B 779B 919E  
88B 290B 742B 779D 939C  
 
         b.   The soil types listed below (category 2) require a reserved area
of not less than eighteen thousand (18,000) square feet in area, or not more
than two (2) reserved areas of not less than nine thousand (9,000) square feet
in area each.
            CATEGORY 2 SOIL TYPES
 
27B  60C2  154A  221B  233C2 294B
27C2 61    171A  221C2 242A  294C2
27D2 102   171B  223B  259B  414B
27E2 119C2 171C2 223C2 259C2 419B
41   145B  198   223D2 278A  419C2
55B  145C2 219B  233B  279A  490
 
         c.   The use of conventional subsurface absorption systems shall not
be permitted in soils that have moderate (restricted) or severe limitations and
very severe limitations for that intended use except when the limitations of
the soils have been overcome, if possible. Soils with moderate or severe
limitations and very severe limitations for subsurface absorption systems shall
not be included in the reserved areas for conventional subsurface absorption
systems. Class I or class II aerobic treatment systems shall not be substituted
for subsurface absorption systems in soils with moderate or severe limitations
for subsurface absorption systems.
The soil types listed below (category 3) possess moderate or severe
limitations.
            CATEGORY 3 SOIL TYPES
 
29D2  397F  429B  504F  509D2 761D
324B  410B  429C  505C2 509E2 761F
324C2 410C2 503B  505E2 661B  6506B
397B  411B  503C2 509B  661C2 6506C
397D  411C2 504D  509C2 761B   
 
The soil types listed below (category 4) possess very severe limitations for
the use of conventional subsurface absorption systems.
            CATEGORY 4 SOIL TYPES
 
68 82  125 415 864   
73 103 152 451 865   
74 107 321 776 1776  
77 123 347 802 4776  
 
      4.   Maintenance And Operations: If the applicant proposes privately
owned sewage treatment facilities, provisions shall be made for the maintenance
and operations of such facilities and shall be stated on the final plat and
incorporated in the deed. Additionally, there shall be compliance with section
14-3-9 of this chapter.
   D.   Design Criteria For Sanitary Sewers:
      1.   General Guidelines: These design criteria are not intended to cover
extraordinary situations. Deviations will be allowed and may be required in
those instances when considered justified by the county engineer.
      2.   Design Factors: Sanitary sewer systems should be designed for the
ultimate tributary population. Due consideration should be given to current
zoning regulations and approved planning and zoning reports where applicable.
Sewer capacities should be adequate to handle the anticipated maximum hourly
quantity of sewage and industrial waste together with an adequate allowance for
infiltration and other extraneous flow. The unit design flows presented below
should be adequate in each case for the particular type of development
indicated. Sewers shall be designed for the total tributary area using the
following criteria:
      cfs = Cubic feet per second
One- and two-family dwellings            0.02 cfs/acre
Apartments:                               
One- and two-story                       0.02 cfs/acre
Three- through six-story                 0.03 cfs/acre
Commercial:                               
Small stores, offices, and miscellaneous 0.02 cfs/acre
business
Shopping centers                         0.02 cfs/acre
High rise                                As directed by county engineer
Industrial                               As directed by county engineer
 
These design factors shall apply to watersheds of three hundred (300) acres or
less. Design factors for watersheds larger than three hundred (300) acres and
smaller than one thousand (1,000) acres shall be computed on the basis of a
linear decrease from the applicable design factor for an area of three hundred
(300) acres to a design factor of 0.01 cfs/acre for an area of one thousand
(1,000) acres unless otherwise directed by the county engineer. Design factors
for watersheds larger than one thousand (1,000) acres shall be 0.01 cfs/acre
unless otherwise directed by the county engineer.
      3.   Maximum Size: The diameter of sewers proposed shall not exceed the
diameter of the existing or proposed outlet, whichever is applicable, unless
otherwise approved by the county engineer.
      4.   Minimum Size: No public sewer shall be less than eight inches (8")
in diameter.
      5.   Minimum Slope: All sewers shall be designed to give mean velocities
when flowing full of not less than 2.7 feet per second. All velocity and flow
calculations shall be based on the Manning formula using an N value of 0.013.
The design slopes shall be evenly divisible by four (4). The slopes shall be
minimum for the size indicated. Exceptions to these minimum slopes shall be
made at the upper end of lateral sewers serving under thirty (30) houses.
Sewers at the upper end shall have a minimum slope of 0.76 percent. When
lateral sewers serve less than ten (10) houses, the minimum slope shall be not
less than one percent (1%). (See table below.)
      MINIMUM SLOPES FOR SEWER SIZE INDICATED
Sewer Size Minimum Slope
(Inches)   (Feet Per 100 Feet)
Sewer Size Minimum Slope
(Inches)   (Feet Per 100 Feet)
8          0.60
10         0.44
12         0.36
15         0.28
18         0.24
21         0.20
24         0.16
 
      6.   Alignment: All sewers shall be laid with straight alignment between
manholes, unless otherwise directed or approved by the county engineer.
      7.   Manhole Location: Manholes shall be installed at the end of each
line; at all changes in grade, size, or alignment; at all intersections; and at
distances not greater than four hundred feet (400') for sewers fifteen inches
(15") and smaller, and five hundred feet (500') for sewers eighteen inches
(18") in diameter and larger.
      8.   Manholes: The difference in elevation between any incoming sewer and
the manhole invert shall not exceed twelve inches (12") except where required
to match crowns. The use of drop manholes will require approval by the county
engineer. The minimum inside diameter of the manholes shall conform to those
specified by the county engineer. Inside drop manholes will require special
considerations; however, in no case shall the minimum clear distance be less
than that indicated above. When a smaller sewer joins a larger one, the crown
of the smaller sewer shall not be lower than that of the larger one. The
minimum drop through manholes shall be 0.2 feet.
      9.   Sewerage Locations: Sanitary sewers shall be located within street
or alley rights of way unless topography dictates otherwise. When located in
easements on private property, access shall be to all manholes. A manhole shall
be provided at each street or alley crossing. End lines shall be extended to
provide access from street or alley right of way when possible. Imposed loading
shall be considered in all locations. Not less than six feet (6') of cover
shall be provided over the top of pipe in street and alley rights of way or
three feet (3') in all other areas.
      10.   Cleanouts And Lampholes: Cleanouts and lampholes will not be
permitted.
      11.   Water Supply Interconnections: There shall be no physical
connection between a public or private potable water supply system and a sewer
which will permit the passage of any sewage or polluted water into the potable
supply. Sewers shall be kept removed from water supply wells or other water
supply sources and structures.
      12.   Relation Of Sewers To Water Mains: A minimum horizontal distance of
ten feet (10') shall be maintained between parallel water and sewer lines. At
points where sewers cross water mains, the sewer shall be constructed of cast
iron pipe or encased in concrete for a distance of ten feet (10') in each
direction from the crossing, measured perpendicular to the water line. This
will not be required when the water main is at least two feet (2') above the
sewer. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-4-7: UTILITIES:
   A.   Location: All utility facilities, including, but not limited to, gas,
electric power, telephone, and CATV cables, shall be located underground
throughout the subdivision. Whenever existing utility facilities are located
above ground, except when existing on public roads and rights of way, they
shall be removed and placed underground. All utility facilities existing and
proposed throughout the subdivision shall be shown on the preliminary plat.
Underground service connections to the street property line of each platted lot
shall be installed at the subdivider's expense. At the discretion of the
committee, the requirement for service connections to each lot may be waived in
the case of adjoining lots to be retained in single ownership and intended to
be developed for the same primary use.
   B.   Easements:
      1.   Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for utilities
and such easements shall be at least ten feet (10') wide. Proper coordination
shall be established between the subdivider and the applicable utility
companies for the establishment of utility easements established in adjoining
properties.
      2.   When topographical or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual
unobstructed easements at least ten feet (10') in width shall be provided along
side lot lines with satisfactory access to the road or rear lot lines.
Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
      3.   Conduit shall be placed during the roadway excavation for
installation of utility crossings. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-4-8: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES:
   A.   General: Existing features that would add value to residential
development or to the community as a whole, such as trees, watercourses and
falls, beaches, historic spots, and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be
preserved in the design of the subdivision. No trees shall be removed from any
subdivision nor any change of grade of the land affected until approval of the
preliminary plat has been granted. All trees on the plat required to be
retained shall be preserved, and all trees where required shall be welled and
protected against change of grade. The preliminary plat shall indicate all
trees marked for retention and the location of all proposed shade trees
required along the street side of each lot as required by these regulations.
   B.   Shade Trees Planted By Developer:
      1.   As a requirement of subdivision approval the applicant shall plant
shade trees on the property of the subdivision. Such trees are to be planted
within five feet (5') of the right of way of the road or roads within and
abutting the subdivision, or, at the discretion of the committee with the
advice and consent of the county engineer, within the right of way of such
roads. One tree shall be planted for every sixty feet (60') of frontage along
both sides of each road unless the committee, upon recommendation of the county
engineer, shall grant a waiver. The waiver shall be granted only if there are
trees growing along the right of way or on the abutting property which, in the
opinion of the committee, comply with these regulations.
      2.   All trees shall have a minimum trunk diameter (measured 12 inches
above ground level) of not less than two inches (2"). Only oak, honey locust,
sugar maple, red maple, ginkgo, ash or other long lived shade trees, acceptable
to the committee, shall be planted. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-4-9: NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   General: If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect
to the land shall make provision as the committee may require. A nonresidential
subdivision shall also be subject to all the requirements of site plan approval
set forth in the zoning ordinance. Site plan approval and nonresidential
subdivision plat approval may proceed simultaneously at the discretion of the
committee. A nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the
requirements of these regulations, as well as such additional standards
required by the committee, and shall conform to the proposed land use and
standards established in the comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance.
   B.   Standards: In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the committee that the
street, parcel, and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses
anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following
principles and standards shall be observed:
      1.   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions
to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      2.   Street rights of way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      3.   Special requirements may be imposed by the local government with
respect to street, curb, gutter, and sidewalk design and construction.
      4.   Special requirements may be imposed by the county with respect to
the installation of public utilities, including water, sewer, and stormwater
drainage.
      5.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip when necessary.
      6.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential areas. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
DIVISION 5
OPEN SPACE SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
14-5-1: Purpose And Intent
14-5-2: Objectives
14-5-3: Site Location Principles
14-5-4: Development Requirements
14-5-5: Evaluation Criteria/Design Standards
14-5-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The intent of the open space subdivision is to permit residential development
that results in an enhanced living environment through the preservation of
agriculture, environment and rural landscape. The provisions set forth
encourage innovative and livable housing environments through both permanent
dedication of open space and a planned reduction of individual lot area
requirements. The overall density remains the same as would be found in a
conventionally designed subdivision, or may increase up to the maximum
potential allowed within the lot size requirements established herein.
Increasing residential development has produced a need for environmentally
sensitive and cost efficient development. The "open space subdivision" concept
meets this need as dwelling units are grouped onto part or parts of the
designated development parcel so the remaining acreage can be permanently
preserved as open space.
The following provisions are intended to result in residential development
which is consistent with zoning ordinance standards and these regulations, yet
allows for modifications from the general standards to ensure appropriate, fair
and consistent decision making. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-5-2: OBJECTIVES:
The following objectives shall be considered in the review of any application
for an open space subdivision:
   A.   To provide a more environmentally sensitive residential environment by
preserving the natural character of open fields, stands of trees, ponds,
streams, wetlands, hills and similar natural features.
   B.   To preserve the rural landscape of the county and protect
environmentally sensitive lands from the disruptive effects of conventionally
designed subdivisions.
   C.   To provide a more efficient and aesthetic use of open space by allowing
developers to reduce lot sizes without sacrificing the public health, morals
and general welfare while maintaining the residential density required within
the zoning district.
   D.   To allow a more flexible and economical residential layout and street
design that encourages diversity and originality in lot layout and dwelling
placement to achieve the best possible relationship between development and the
land.
   E.   To encourage design creativity in all aspects of the development,
including lot layout, street design and sewage disposal methods.
   F.   To assure the permanent preservation of open space, rural lands and
natural resources. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-5-3: SITE LOCATION PRINCIPLES:
The following general principles shall be utilized to evaluate the proposed
location of any open space subdivision. These principles shall be applied by
the regional planning commission and the committee as a general guideline to
help assess the impact of the proposed development.
   A.   Protecting Natural Features: The purpose of an open space subdivision
is to maintain the rural, natural and scenic qualities of the county. Toward
this end, all open space subdivisions shall be designed to promote the
preservation of natural features. Significant wildlife habitats, sensitive
environmental lands and scenic vistas are to be protected.
   B.   Single Ownership Control: The proposed development shall be under
single ownership or control, such that a single person or entity has
proprietary responsibility for the completion of the development.
   C.   Access To Public Roadway: Open space subdivisions shall have not less
than one property line abutting a public roadway. All entrances and exits shall
be directly onto or from said roadway. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-5-4: DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Density Standards: Applicants for an open space subdivision shall be
entitled to develop the land remaining after the required dedication of open
space to its maximum potential subject to the lot size requirements established
herein.
   B.   Lot Size Requirements: Lot sizes may vary; however, all lots shall
comply with the following standards:
      1.   Lots not served by public or common sanitary sewer and public or
community water shall be at least one acre (43,560 square feet) in area with a
minimum lot width of not less than one hundred thirty feet (130') measured at
the approved building setback line. Additionally, lots shall be sized and
designed to accommodate an area, or not more than two (2) areas, of contiguous,
suitable soil reserved for the installation of a primary subsurface absorption
system and a secondary (replacement) subsurface absorption system. Said area(s)
shall be clearly delineated and labeled on the preliminary plat. Suitable soils
are those soils classified as category 1, 1A or 2 pursuant to the Ogle County
health code. Those soils with moderate, severe or very severe limitations for
subsurface absorption systems (category 3 and 4, pursuant to the Ogle County
health code) shall not be included in the reserved areas for conventional
subsurface absorption systems. Category 1 and 1A soil types require a total
reserved area of at least nine thousand (9,000) square feet. Category 2 soil
types require a total reserved area of at least eighteen thousand (18,000)
square feet.
      2.   Lots served by public sewer and sewerage treatment facilities and
public water shall be at least ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area with a
minimum lot width of not less than eighty feet (80') measured at the approved
building setback line.
      3.   Lots served only by a public or community water system shall be at
least twenty one thousand (21,000) square feet in area with a minimum lot width
of not less than one hundred feet (100') measured at the approved building
setback line. Additionally, lots shall be sized and designed to accommodate an
area, or not more than two (2) areas, of contiguous, suitable soil reserved for
the installation of a primary subsurface absorption system and a secondary
(replacement) subsurface absorption system pursuant to paragraph B1 of this
section.
      4.   Lots served only by public or community sewers (sewage treatment
facilities) shall be at least fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet with a
minimum lot width of not less than ninety feet (90') measured at the building
line.
      5.   Lots served by on site wells shall be sized and designed to
accommodate a private well located not less one hundred feet (100') from the
subsurface absorption system.
      6.   Lots served by off site subsurface absorption systems or other
approved off site sewage treatment methods shall be treated, for the purposes
of lot size requirements, as being served by public or community sewers (sewage
treatment facilities).
   C.   Setback And Yard Area Requirements:
      1.   Building Setback And Yard Area Requirements: The building setback
and yard area requirements of the zoning district in which the open space
subdivision is located shall apply. However, when reduced building envelopes
are utilized, the required building setback may be reduced up to, but not more
than, twenty five percent (25%).
      2.   Reduced Building Envelopes (RBE): The use of RBEs is strongly
encouraged in order to minimize site disturbance, reserve on site areas for
subsurface sewage disposal, and create a better overall subdivision design. The
RBE shall be clearly delineated as such on the subdivision plat, shall be
binding upon the owner/developer of each lot, and shall be enforceable by the
county. The following design standards shall apply to RBEs:
         a.   RBEs shall be selected that do not include the tops of
ridgelines.
         b.   RBEs shall not be located in areas reserved for the installation
of a primary subsurface absorption system and a secondary (replacement)
subsurface absorption system as required in paragraph B of this section.
         c.   RBEs should avoid open fields where feasible.
         d.   RBEs should be located on the edges of fields and in wooded areas
to minimize the visual impact of development.
         e.   Front, rear and side yard setbacks may be staggered to provide
for maximum variety in the size of such yards; however, the yard area
requirements of the zoning district in which the open space subdivision is
located shall apply and the required building setback may be reduced up to, but
not more than, twenty five percent (25%).
         f.   Maximum possible rear yards onto open space shall be provided.
         g.   RBE placement should be as far as possible from open space.
   D.   Open Space Standards:
      1.   Areas Not Considered Open Space: Areas devoted to public or private
streets or rights of way or any land that has been or is to be conveyed to a
public agency for purposes other than conservation of open space shall not be
calculated as dedicated open space.
      2.   Areas That May Be Included As Open Space: Except as noted above, any
undeveloped land area within the boundaries of the designated development
parcel may be included as required open space, including land designated "zone
A" or "zone AE" (special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood) as
shown on the Ogle County, Illinois, flood insurance rate maps prepared by the
federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
   E.   Use Of Open Space: All land within an open space subdivision that is
not devoted to a residential unit, an accessory use, vehicular access,
vehicular parking, a roadway, an approved land improvement, or is not
considered open space as defined above shall be considered dedicated open space
and shall be set aside as common land for recreation, conservation,
agricultural uses, or preserved in an undeveloped state. Further subdivision of
open space lands, or their use for other than recreation, conservation or
agriculture shall be prohibited.
   F.   Location Of Open Space: Open space shall be comprised of two (2) types
of land: "primary conservation areas" and "secondary conservation areas". All
lands within both primary and secondary conservation areas shall be protected
by a permanent conservation easement prohibiting further development, and
setting other standards safeguarding the site's special resources from negative
changes. In an R-1 rural residence district, at least fifty percent (50%) of
the total site area designated for development shall be designated as open
space and permanently protected; in a R-2 single-family residence district, at
least thirty three and one-third percent (33.33%) of the total site area
designated for development shall be designated as open space and permanently
protected.
      1.   Primary Conservation Areas: This category consists of wetlands,
lands that are generally inundated (under ponds, lakes, creeks, rivers, etc.),
land within the 100-year floodplain, and slopes exceeding twenty five percent
(25%).
      2.   Secondary Conservation Areas: In addition to the primary
conservation areas, additional land shall be designated as open space and
permanently protected to total the required percentage of the total site area
designated for development.
   Although the locations of primary conservation areas are predetermined by
the locations of floodplains, wetlands, and steep slopes, greater latitude
exists in the designation of secondary conservation areas except that they
shall include a one hundred foot (100') deep greenway buffer along all water
bodies and watercourses, and a fifty foot (50') greenway buffer alongside
wetlands soils classified as "very poorly drained" in the detailed soil report.
   The location of secondary conservation areas shall be guided by the
"planning goals and objectives" contained in the Ogle County comprehensive
plan, and shall typically contain all or part of the following kinds of
resources: mature woodlands, aquifer recharge areas, areas with highly
permeable ("excessively drained") soils, significant wildlife habitat areas,
sites listed on the Illinois natural areas inventory, "prime" farmland,
historic, archaeological or cultural features listed (or eligible to be listed)
on national, state or county registers or inventories, and scenic views into
the property from existing public roads. Secondary conservation areas therefore
typically consist of upland forest, meadows, pastures, and farm fields, part of
the ecologically connected matrix of natural areas significant for wildlife
habitat, water quality protection, and other reasons.
      3.   General Locational Standards: Open space subdivisions shall be
designed around both the primary and secondary conservation areas, which
together constitute the total required open space. The design process should
therefore commence with the delineation of all potential open space, after
which potential house sites are located. Following that, access road alignments
are identified, with lot lines being drawn in as the final step. This "four-
step" design process is further described in paragraph F4 of this section.
   Both primary and secondary conservation areas shall be placed in undivided
preserves, which may adjoin housing areas that have been designed more
compactly to create larger areas that may be enjoyed equally by all residents
of the development.
   Undivided open space shall be directly accessible to the largest practicable
number of lots within an open space subdivision. To achieve this, the majority
of house lots should abut undivided open space in order to provide direct views
and access. Safe and convenient pedestrian access to the open space from all
lots not adjoining pedestrian access to the open space shall be provided
(except in the case of farmland, or other resource areas vulnerable to
trampling damage of human disturbance). Where the undivided open space is
designated as separate, noncontiguous parcels, no parcel shall consist of less
than three (3) acres in area nor have a length to width ratio in excess of four
to one (4:1), except such areas that are specifically designed as athletic
fields, upland buffers to wetlands, water bodies or watercourses, or trail
links.
      4.   Four-Step Design Process For Open Space Subdivisions:
         a.   Designating The Open Space:
            (1)   During the first step, all potential conservation areas (both
primary and secondary) are identified, based upon the existing features of the
site (site analysis) as required under sections
14-3-3 and/or
14-3-4 of this chapter. Primary conservation areas shall consist of wetlands,
lands that are generally inundated (under ponds, lakes, creeks, rivers, etc.),
land within the 100-year floodplain, and slopes exceeding twenty five percent
(25%). Secondary conservation areas shall include the most sensitive and
noteworthy natural, scenic, and cultural resources on that remaining portion of
the property. In an R-1 rural residential district, the primary and secondary
conservation areas shall total fifty percent (50%) of the total site area
designated for development; in an R-2 single-family residential district, the
primary and secondary conservation areas shall total thirty three and one-third
percent (33.33%) of the total site area designated for development.
            (2)   Guidance on which parts of the remaining land to classify as
secondary conservation areas shall be based upon:
               (A)   The procedures described in "Conservation Design For
Subdivisions: A Practical Guide To Creating Open Space Networks", produced by
Natural Lands Trust and published by Island Press,
               (B)   On site visits or walkabouts,
               (C)   The open space locational criteria contained in section
14-5-5 of this division,
               (D)   Information from published data and reports,
               (E)   Conversations with existing or recent owners of the
property, and members of the township board of supervisors and/or planning
commission.
         b.   Location Of House Sites: During the second step, potential house
sites are tentatively located. Because the proposed location of houses within
each lot represents a significant decision with potential impacts on the
ability of the development to meet the thirteen (13) evaluation criteria
contained in section
14-5-5 of this division, subdivision applicants shall identify tentative house
sites on the preliminary plat. House sites should generally be located not
closer than one hundred feet (100') from primary conservation areas, but may be
situated within fifty feet (50') of secondary conservation areas, in order to
enjoy views of the latter without negatively impacting the former.
         c.   Street And Lot Layout: The third step consists of aligning
proposed streets to provide vehicular access to each house in the most
reasonable and economic way. When lots and access streets are laid out, they
shall be located in a way that avoids or at least minimizes adverse impacts on
both the primary and secondary conservation areas. To the greatest extent
practicable, wetland crossings and streets traversing existing slopes over
fifteen percent (15%) shall be strongly discouraged. Street connections shall
generally be encouraged to minimize the number of new cul- de-sacs to be
maintained by the applicable public highway authority and to facilitate easy
access to and from homes in different parts of the property (and on adjoining
parcels). The creation of single loaded residential access streets is generally
encouraged in order that the maximum number of homes in new developments may
enjoy views of open space.
         d.   Lot Lines: The fourth step is simply to draw in the lot lines
(where applicable). These are generally drawn midway between house locations
and may include reserve (flag) lots meeting the county's minimum standards for
the same.
   G.   Preservation Of Open Space:
      1.   Open space shall be set aside by the developer through an
irrevocable conveyance that is acceptable to the county. Forms of dedicating
open space may include:
         a.   A recorded deed restriction;
         b.   Covenants that run perpetually with the land; or
         c.   A conservation easement.
      2.   Such conveyance shall assure that the open space will be protected
from all forms of development, except as shown on an approved site plan, and
shall never be changed to another use except for public highway purposes. Such
conveyance shall:
         a.   Indicate the proposed allowable use(s) of the dedicated open
space.
         b.   Require that the dedicated open space be maintained by parties
who have an ownership interest in the open space.
         c.   Provide standards for scheduled maintenance of the open space.
   H.   Structures Built In Open Space Areas: Any structure(s) or building(s)
accessory to recreation, conservation or agriculture may be erected within the
dedicated open space, subject to the approved open space plan. These accessory
structure(s) or building(s) shall not exceed, in the aggregate, one percent
(1%) of the required open space area.
   I.   Access To Open Space: Open space intended for recreation or use by the
residents shall be easily accessible to pedestrians. Accessibility should meet
the needs of the physically challenged and senior citizens.
   J.   Ownership And Maintenance Of Open Space: Different ownership and
management options apply to the permanently protected open space created
through the open space subdivision development process. The open space shall
remain undivided and may be owned and managed by a homeowners' association, a
recognized land trust or conservancy, or a public agency such as a park
district or forest preserve district. A narrative describing ownership, use and
maintenance responsibilities shall be submitted for all common and public
improvements, utilities, and open spaces.
      1.   Ownership Standards: Common open space within a development shall be
owned, administered, and maintained by any of the following methods, either
individually or in combination:
         a.   Homeowners' Association: The undivided open space and associated
facilities may be held in common ownership by a homeowners' association. The
association shall be formed and operated under the following provisions:
            (1)   The developer shall provide a description of the association,
including its bylaws and methods for maintaining the open space.
            (2)   The association shall be organized by the developer and shall
be operated with a financial subsidy from the developer, before the sale of any
lots within the development.
            (3)   Membership in the association is automatic (mandatory) for
all purchasers of homes therein and their successors. The conditions and timing
of transferring control of the association from developer to homeowners shall
be identified.
            (4)   The association shall be responsible for maintenance of
insurance and taxes on undivided open space, enforceable by liens placed by the
county on the association. The association may place liens on the homes or
house lots of its members who fail to pay their association dues in a timely
manner. Such liens may require the imposition of penalty interest charges.
            (5)   The members of the association shall share equitably the
costs of maintaining and developing such undivided open space. Shares shall be
defined within the association bylaws.
            (6)   The association shall have or hire adequate staff to
administer common facilities and properly and continually maintain the
undivided open space.
         b.   Condominiums: The undivided open space and associated facilities
may be controlled through the use of condominium agreements, approved by the
county. Such agreements shall be in conformance with the state's uniform
condominium act. All undivided open space land shall be held as a "common
element".
         c.   Transfer Of Conservation Easements To A Private Conservation
Organization Or Public Agency: With the permission of the county, an owner may
transfer easements to a private, nonprofit organization or ownership to a
public agency, among whose purposes it is to conserve open space and/or natural
resources, provided that:
            (1)   The organization is a bona fide conservation organization
with perpetual existence;
            (2)   The conveyance contains appropriate provisions for proper
reverter or retransfer in the event that the organization becomes unwilling or
unable to continue carrying out its functions; and
            (3)   A maintenance agreement acceptable to the county is entered
into by the developer and the organization.
      2.   Maintenance Standards:
         a.   The ultimate owner of the open space (typically a homeowners'
association) shall be responsible for raising all monies required for
operations, maintenance, or physical improvements to the open space through
annual dues, special assessments, etc. The homeowners' association shall be
authorized under its bylaws to place liens on the property of residents who
fall delinquent in payment of such dues, assessments, etc.
         b.   In the event that the association or any successor organization
shall, at any time after establishment of a development containing undivided
open space, fail to maintain the undivided open space in reasonable order and
condition in accordance with the development plan, the county may serve written
notice upon the owner of record, setting forth the manner in which the owner of
record has failed to maintain the undivided open space in reasonable condition.
         c.   Failure to adequately maintain the undivided open space in
reasonable order and condition constitutes a violation of these regulations.
The county is hereby authorized to give written notice to the owner or
occupant, as the case may be, of any violation, directing the owner to remedy
the same within fifteen (15) days. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-5-5: EVALUATION CRITERIA/DESIGN STANDARDS:
In evaluating the layout of lots and open space, the following criteria will be
considered by the county as indicating design appropriate to the site's
natural, historic, and cultural features, and meeting the purpose and
objectives of open space subdivisions. Diversity and originality in lot layout
shall be encouraged to achieve the best possible relationship between
development and conservation areas. Accordingly, the county shall evaluate
proposals to determine whether the proposed sketch or preliminary plat:
   A.   Protects and serves all floodplains, wetlands, and steep slopes from
clearing, grading, filling, or construction (except as may be approved by the
county for essential infrastructure or active or passive recreation amenities).
   B.   Preserves and maintains mature woodlands, existing fields, pastures,
meadows, and orchards, and creates sufficient buffer areas to minimize
conflicts between residential and agricultural uses. For example, locating
house lots and driveways within wooded areas is generally recommended, with two
(2) exceptions. The first involves significant preservation concern, as
described in paragraphs E and H of this section. The second involves
predominantly agricultural areas, where remnant tree groups provide the only
natural areas for wildlife habitat.
   C.   If development must be located on open fields or pastures because of
greater constraints in all other parts of the site, dwellings should be sited
on the least prime agricultural soils, or in locations at the far edge of a
field, as seen from existing public roads. Other considerations include whether
the development will be visually buffered from existing public roads, such as
by a planting screen consisting of a variety of indigenous native trees, shrubs
and wildflowers.
   D.   Maintains or creates an upland buffer of natural native species
vegetation of at least one hundred feet (100') in depth adjacent to wetlands
and surface waters, including creeks, streams, rivers, springs, lakes and
ponds.
   E.   Designs around existing hedgerows and tree lines between fields or
meadows, and minimizes impacts on large woodlands (greater than 5 acres),
especially those containing many mature trees or a significant wildlife
habitat. Also, woodlands of any size on highly erodible soils with slopes
greater than ten percent (10%) should be avoided. However, woodlands in poor
condition with limited management potential can provide suitable locations for
residential development. When any woodland is developed, great care shall be
taken to design all disturbed areas (for buildings, roads, yards, subsurface
septic absorption systems, etc.) in locations where there are no large trees or
obvious wildlife areas, to the fullest extent that is practicable.
   F.   Leaves scenic views and vistas unblocked or uninterrupted, particularly
as seen from public roads. For example, in open agrarian landscapes, a deep "no
build, no plant" buffer is recommended along the public road where those views
or vistas are prominent or locally significant. The concept of "foreground
meadows" with homes facing the public road across a broad grassy expanse (as
illustrated in figure 5-5 of "Open Space For Subdivisions: A Practical Guide To
Creating Open Space Networks" [Arendt, Randall G., 1996]) is strongly preferred
to mere buffer strips, with or without berms or vegetative screening. In wooded
areas where the sense of enclosure is a feature that should be maintained, a
deep "no build, no cut" buffer should be respected, to preserve existing
vegetation.
   G.   Avoids siting new construction on prominent hilltops or ridges, by
taking advantage of lower topographic features.
   H.   Protects wildlife habitat areas of species listed as endangered,
threatened, or of special concern by the U.S. environmental protection agency
and/or by the Illinois natural areas inventory.
   I.   Designs around and preserves sites of historic, archaeological, or
cultural value, and their environs, insofar as needed to safeguard the
character of the feature, including barns, barn foundations, and burial
grounds.
   J.   Protects rural roadside character and improves public safety and
vehicular carrying capacity by avoiding development fronting directly onto
existing public roads. Establishes buffer zones along the scenic corridor of
rural roads with historic buildings, hedgerows, and so on.
   K.   Provides active recreational areas in suitable locations that offer
convenient access by residents and adequate screening from nearby house lots.
   L.   Includes a pedestrian circulation system designed to assure that
pedestrians can walk safely and easily on the site, between properties and
activities or special features within the neighborhood open space system. All
roadside footpaths should connect with off road trails, which in turn should
link with potential open space on adjoining undeveloped parcels (or with
existing open space on adjoining developed parcels, where applicable).
   M.   Provides open space that is reasonably contiguous. For example,
fragmentation of open space should be minimized so that these resource areas
are not divided into numerous small parcels located in various parts of the
development. To the greatest extent practicable, this land shall be designed as
a single block with logical, straightforward boundaries. Long thin strips of
conservation land shall be avoided, unless the conservation feature is linear
or unless such configuration is necessary to connect with other streams or
trails. The open space shall generally abut existing or potential open space
land on adjacent parcels (such as in other subdivisions, public parks/
preserves, or properties owned by or eased to private land conservation
organizations). Such subdivision open space shall be designed as part of larger
contiguous and integrated greenway systems. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
DIVISION 6
SCHOOL LAND DEDICATION
SECTION:
14-6-1: Dedication Of School Sites Or Payment Of Fees In Lieu Thereof
14-6-2: Criteria For Requiring School Site Dedication
14-6-3: Criteria For Requiring Contribution In Lieu Of School Sites
14-6-4: Density Formula
14-6-5: Table Of Estimated Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit
14-6-6: Conveyance Of Site
14-6-7: Reservation Of Additional Land
14-6-8: Combining With Adjoining Developments
14-6-9: Notation On Final Plat
14-6-10: Maintenance Of Dedicated Land
14-6-11: Notification On Conveyance Of Land And/Or Payment Of Fees In Lieu
Thereof
14-6-12: Notification And Indemnification By Board Of Education
14-6-13: Objections
14-6-14: Municipal Planning Jurisdiction
14-6-1: DEDICATION OF SCHOOL SITES OR PAYMENT OF FEES IN LIEU THEREOF:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or resubdivision, or
of a final plat of a planned development, each subdivider or developer shall be
required to dedicate land for school sites to serve the expanded future needs
of the residents of the district, or make a contribution in lieu of actual land
dedication, or a combination of both, at the option of the county and the board
of education. Absent a request from the affected board of education and the
county, a presumption is established that a cash contribution in lieu of land
shall be made. (Res., 6-22-2006)
14-6-2: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING SCHOOL SITE DEDICATION:
   A.   Criteria For Dedication Of School Site: The number of students to be
generated by a subdivision or planned development shall bear directly upon the
amount of land required to be dedicated for school sites. The land dedication
requirement shall be determined by obtaining the ratio of:
      1.   The estimated number of children to be generated by the subdivision
or planned development in each school classification as determined by reference
to section
14-6-5, "Table Of Estimated Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit", of this
division; over the
      2.   Maximum recommended number of students to be served according to
each school classification site as stated herein, and then applying such ratio
to the said;
      3.   Minimum recommended number of acres for a school site of each school
classification as stated herein.
The product thereof shall be the acres of land deemed needed to have sufficient
land for school sites to serve the estimated increased children in each such
school classification.
   B.   School Classification And Size Of School Site: School classification
and size of school sites within the county shall be determined in accordance
with the following criteria:
 
Classification By Grade Minimum Acres Of Land Per School Site
Elementary              5 acres plus 1 additional acre for each 100 pupils of
Grades K - 5            predicted ultimate enrollment
Junior high             20 acres plus 1 additional acre for each 100 pupils of
Grades 6 - 8            predicted ultimate enrollment
High school             30 acres plus 1 additional acre for each 100 pupils of
Grades 9 - 12           predicted ultimate enrollment
 
The school board of each school district may file, with the county clerk from
time to time, a declaration of predicted ultimate enrollment for each type of
school site classification to be used for the calculations required by this
division. In the event no declaration is filed by an affected school district,
the following predicted ultimate enrollment numbers shall be used for the
calculations required by this division:
 
Classification Maximum Number Of Students For Each Classification
Elementary     400
Junior high    500
High school    1,000
 
   C.   Location: The comprehensive school plan, county plan and/or the
standards adopted by the affected school district shall be used as guidelines
in locating sites. Additional guidelines which may be considered in locating
sites include, but are not limited to, centrality of location within proposed
development, size of subdivision, proximity of site to other schools, parks and
municipal services, topography, geology, soils and shape of site, accessibility
of site, safety, and other environmental and use conditions. (Res., 6-22-2006)
14-6-3: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF SCHOOL SITES:
   A.   Cash Contribution Required: Where the development size results in the
dedication of a school site too small to be practical or when the available
land is inappropriate for a school site, as determined in consultation and
agreement with the affected school district, the county shall require a cash
contribution in lieu of the land dedication required.
   B.   Contribution Amount: The cash contribution required, on a per lot
basis, shall be determined by multiplying the land dedication required by
application of the formula found in section
14-6-2 of this division, times fair market value of improved, subdivided land,
as platted within the development's final plat, that otherwise would have been
dedicated as school sites. It has been determined that the present fair market
value of such land in the county is eighty four thousand dollars ($84,000.00)
per acre and such figure shall be used in making any calculation herein unless
the subdivider or developer files a written objection thereto with the county
clerk and the superintendent of the school district prior to approval of the
final plat. Based on the foregoing, the per lot contributions for various types
of dwelling units shall be as follows:
      PER LOT CONTRIBUTION AMOUNTS
Type Of Dwelling Elementary      Jr. High School High School   Total Amount All
Unit             School Grades K Grades 6 - 8    Grades 9 - 11 Grades
                 - 5
Type Of Dwelling Elementary      Jr. High School High School   Total Amount All
Unit             School Grades K Grades 6 - 8    Grades 9 - 11 Grades
                 - 5
Detached single-                                             
family:
2 bedroom        $ 257.00        $ 202.00        $ 67.00       $ 526.00
3 bedroom        697.00          737.00          618.00        2,052.00
4 bedroom        1,002.00        1,252.00        1,210.00      3,464.00
5 bedroom        652.00          1,042.00        1,008.00      2,702.00
Attached single-                                             
family:
2 bedroom        166.00          202.00          128.00        496.00
3 bedroom        442.00          244.00          198.00        884.00
4 bedroom        609.00          647.00          581.00        1,837.00
Apartments:                                                  
2 bedroom        163.00          176.00          155.00        494.00
3 bedroom        442.00          517.00          396.00        1,355.00
 
   C.   Time Of Payment/Binding On Successors/Notice To School District: The
obligation to make the cash contributions shall be binding on the subdivider or
developer, any successors and assigns, and shall run with the land. Prior to
approval of the final plat, the subdivider or developer shall, in a form
approved by the county; execute and acknowledge the obligation to make the cash
contributions; file said acknowledgment with the county; deliver a copy thereof
to each affected school district and the regional office of education for Ogle
County; and file a receipt of delivery, issued by each affected school district
and the regional office of education for Ogle County, with the county planning
and zoning department. The cash contribution required herein shall be paid for
each unit prior to the issuance of a zoning certificate. Proof of payment,
issued by the regional office of education and approved by the affected school
district, must be submitted to the planning and zoning department prior to the
issuance of a zoning certificate. No zoning certificate shall be issued until
said payment has been made to the regional office of education which shall hold
the funds in trust for the affected school district and transfer said funds for
the purposes set forth in this division as soon as practicable.
   D.   Use Of Funds: Said cash contribution shall be paid to and held in trust
by the board of education solely for use in the acquisition of land for a
school site to serve the expanded needs of children from the district or for
improvements to any existing school site which already serves such needs.
Improvement under this section shall be liberally construed. Improvement shall
also include the purchase of any material, goods or equipment necessary to said
development and construction. Improvement shall further include the
construction or lease of buildings; the construction of additions to existing
school buildings; the remodeling or renovating of instructional and
noninstructional spaces in classrooms, and the purchase of prefabricated
classroom units to be used at a school site.
   E.   Exemption To Per Lot Contributions: Where a dwelling exists and is
destroyed by any means (fire, act of nature, demolition, etc.), no per lot
contribution shall be required in order to obtain a zoning certificate to
reconstruct said dwelling subject to the following:
      1.   The person making application for the zoning certificate was the
owner of record of the destroyed dwelling;
      2.   The new dwelling is on the same parcel of land as that previously
occupied by the destroyed dwelling. (Res., 6-22-2006)
14-6-4: DENSITY FORMULA:
The "table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit" in section
14-6-5 of this division is generally indicative of projected trends in family
size for new construction and shall be used in calculating the amount of
required dedication and acres of land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof
unless a written objection is filed thereto by the subdivider or developer. In
the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to said table, he
shall submit his own demographic study showing the estimated population to be
generated from the subdivision or planned development and in that event, the
final determination of the density formula to be used in such calculations
shall be made by the county planning and zoning committee based upon such
demographic information submitted by the subdivider or developer and from other
sources which may be submitted for consideration. It is recognized that
population density, age distribution and local conditions change over the
years, and the specific formula for the dedication of land, or the payment of
fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic review and
amendment if necessary. (Res., 6-22-2006)
 
14-6-5: TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT:
The following table shall be used in connection with the provisions of this
division:
TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
        Children Per Dwelling Unit
                  Elementary Jr. High Total      High
        Preschool Grades K - Grades 6 Grades K - School
Type Of 0 - 4     5          - 8      8          Grades 9 - Adults    Total Per
Unit    Years     5 - 10     11 - 13  5 - 13     12         (18 - Up) Unit
                  Years      Years    Years      14 - 17
                                                 Years
            Children Per Dwelling Unit
                      Elementary Jr. High Total    High
            Preschool Grades K - Grades 6 Grades K School
Type Of     0 - 4     5          - 8      - 8      Grades 9 Adults    Total Per
Unit        Years     5 - 10     11 - 13  5 - 13   - 12     (18 - Up) Unit
                      Years      Years    Years    14 - 17
                                                   Years
Detached
single-                                                          
family:
2 bedroom   0.113     0.136      0.048    0.184    0.020    1.700     2.017
3 bedroom   0.292     0.369      0.173    0.542    0.184    1.881     2.899
4 bedroom   0.418     0.530      0.298    0.828    0.360    2.158     3.764
5 bedroom   0.283     0.345      0.248    0.593    0.300    2.594     3.770
Attached
single-                                                          
family:
1 bedroom   0         0          0        0        0        1.193     1.193
2 bedroom   0.064     0.088      0.048    0.136    0.038    1.752     1.990
3 bedroom   0.212     0.234      0.058    0.292    0.059    1.829     2.392
4 bedroom   0.323     0.322      0.154    0.476    0.173    2.173     3.145
Apartments:                                                      
Efficiency  0         0          0        0        0        1.294     1.294
1 bedroom   0         0          0        0        0        1.754     1.754
2 bedroom   0.047     0.086      0.042    0.128    0.046    1.693     1.914
3 bedroom   0.052     0.234      0.123    0.357    0.118    2.526     3.053
 
Note: There are only 3 significant categories provided in this chart. Because
of the similarities of yields of all types of attached single-family dwellings,
only 1 category is provided. The same is true with apartments; there is only 1
category. Because of the short history of some newer types of detached and
attached single-family units, individual evaluations may be necessary.
Copyright 1996
Illinois School Consulting Service
Associated Municipal Consultants, Inc.
Naperville, IL
(Res., 6-22-2006)
14-6-6: CONVEYANCE OF SITE:
Any lands to be conveyed as a school site pursuant to these regulations shall
be conveyed to the school district within thirty (30) days of the approval of
the final plat. If the conveyance is acceptable to the board of education, it
shall take formal action accepting the conveyance. Said conveyance shall be in
accordance with the following criteria:
   A.   All sites shall be conveyed to the board of education either by
warranty or trustee's deed. The subdivider or developer shall be responsible
for conveying good, merchantable title, free of encumbrances, unless the
encumbrances are waived by the board of education, to the board of education.
The subdivider or developer shall be responsible for the payment of all real
estate taxes to the date of conveyance.
   B.   The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated site as well as its
surroundings must be suitable for its intended purpose. The site must be free
of environmental and archaeological concerns.
   C.   All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electrical, water, sewer, drainage and streets as applicable to the location of
the site, or acceptable provision made therefor.
   D.   When, in the opinion of the board of education, any parcel of land
conveyed pursuant to these regulations becomes unnecessary, unsuitable, or
inconvenient for the uses of the school district such parcel may be sold as
provided by applicable law. The proceeds of such sale shall be used in a manner
consistent with the purposes of this division.
   E.   No zoning certificate shall be issued until said conveyance has been
made.
   F.   When the development is small and the resulting site is too small to be
practical or when the available land is inappropriate for a school site, as
determined by the board of education, the county shall require the subdivider
or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land dedication
required.
   G.   There will be situations, as determined by the board of education, in
subdivisions or planned developments when a combination of land dedication and
a contribution in lieu of land is necessary. These occasions will arise when:
      1.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a school site. That portion of the land within the subdivision
falling within the school location shall be dedicated as site as aforesaid, and
a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any additional land
that would have to be dedicated;
      2.   A major part of the school site has already been acquired and only a
small portion of land is needed from the development to complete the site. The
remaining portions shall be required by dedication, and a cash contribution in
lieu thereof shall be required. (Res., 6-22-2006)
14-6-7: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND:
Where the comprehensive school plan and/or county plan calls for a larger
school site in a particular proposed subdivision or planned development than
the developer is required to dedicate, the land needed beyond the developer's
contribution shall, if so determined by the county board, be reserved for
subsequent purchase by the county or the board of education, provided that such
acquisition is made within one year from the date of approval of the final
plat. (Res., 6-22-2006)
14-6-8: COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS:
Where the subdivision or planned development is less than forty (40) acres, a
school site which is to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined with
dedications from adjoining developments in order to produce usable school sites
without hardship on a particular developer. (Res., 6-22-2006)
14-6-9: NOTATION ON FINAL PLAT:
The developer or subdivider shall include the following language as a
restriction on the final plat:
   County ordinances require the dedication of a school site and/or the payment
of cash in lieu of land before the issuance of a zoning certificate. Cash
payments shall be made on a per lot basis prior to the issuance of a zoning
certificate.
(Res., 6-22-2006)
14-6-10: MAINTENANCE OF DEDICATED LAND:
Upon a proposal being accepted by the involved school district, said school
district shall assume the responsibility of maintaining the dedicated land in
accordance with state, county and municipal laws. (Res., 6-22-2006)
14-6-11: NOTIFICATION ON CONVEYANCE OF LAND AND/OR PAYMENT OF FEES IN LIEU
THEREOF:
The owner, developer, or subdivider of land subject to these regulations shall
notify the purchaser of such land of any unsatisfied dedication of land and/or
cash payments required by this division. (Res., 6-22-2006)
14-6-12: NOTIFICATION AND INDEMNIFICATION BY BOARD OF EDUCATION:
Prior to receiving a dedication of land or a cash contribution in lieu of land,
pursuant to this division, the board of education shall adopt a resolution
indicating its desire to receive the dedications and/or contributions required
by these regulations, and shall execute an intergovernmental agreement with the
county in which the school district agrees to indemnify and hold the county
harmless, including the cost of attorney fees, from all suits filed in which
the validity or application of this division is challenged. (Res., 6-22-2006)
14-6-13: OBJECTIONS:
   A.   Fair Market Value: The subdivider or developer may file a written
objection to the fair market value determination of these regulations with the
county clerk and the superintendent of the school district prior to approval of
the final plat. With the filing of any such objection, the subdivider or
developer shall file a written appraisal showing the fair market value of such
land and any other relevant evidence thereof. The county may also accept
relevant information from the board of education and other sources. Upon notice
to the subdivider or developer, the superintendent of the affected school
district, and any other party who the county deems appropriate, the county
shall hold a hearing on the objection.
   B.   Population Density: The subdivider or developer may file a written
objection to the table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit found
in section
14-6-5 of this division with the county clerk and the superintendent of the
school district prior to approval of the final plat. With the filing of any
such objection, the subdivider or developer shall file a demographic study
showing the estimated additional student population to be generated from the
subdivision or planned unit development and any other relevant evidence
thereof. The county may also accept relevant information from the board of
education and other sources. Upon notice to the subdivider or developer, the
superintendent of the affected school district, and any other party who the
county deems appropriate, the county shall hold a hearing on the objection.
   C.   Hearings: In all cases where this division provides for a hearing on an
objection, the planning and zoning committee of the county board is hereby
directed and authorized to conduct the hearing and to render a final decision
on said objection. (Res., 6-22-2006)
14-6-14: MUNICIPAL PLANNING JURISDICTION:
   A.   No Municipal Ordinance: With respect to any municipality which
exercises its statutory planning jurisdiction within one and one- half (11/2)
miles of its borders, and which has not enacted an ordinance requiring a land
donation and/or cash contribution for affected school districts upon the final
platting of a subdivision, resubdivision, or planned unit development, the
provisions of this division shall control.
   B.   Conflict Of Ordinances: With respect to any municipality which
exercises its statutory planning jurisdiction within one and one- half (11/2)
miles of its borders, and which has enacted an ordinance requiring a land
donation and/or cash contribution for affected school districts upon the final
platting of a subdivision, resubdivision, or planned unit development, and
which municipal ordinance is in conflict with the provisions of this division,
the provisions which provides for the greater contribution shall control.
(Res., 6-22-2006)
DIVISION 7
LAND READJUSTMENT
SECTION:
14-7-1: Resubdivision Of Land
14-7-2: Plat Vacation
14-7-3: Minor Adjustments To Reduced Building Envelopes
14-7-1: RESUBDIVISION OF LAND:
   A.   Procedure For Resubdivision: Whenever a developer desires to
resubdivide an already approved final subdivision plat, the developer shall
first obtain approval for the resubdivision by the same procedures prescribed
for the subdivision of land.
   B.   Resubdivision: Resubdivision includes:
      1.   Any change in any street layout or any other public improvement;
      2.   Any change in any lot line;
      3.   Any change in the amount of land reserved for public use or the
common use of lot owners;
      4.   Any change in any easements shown on the approved plat.
   C.   Waiver: Whenever the committee, in its sole discretion, makes a finding
on the record that the purposes of these regulations may be served by
permitting resubdivision by the procedure established in this section, the
committee may waive the requirement of paragraph A of this section. The
committee, after an application for resubdivision that includes an express
request for waiver, shall publish notice of the application in a local
newspaper of general circulation and shall provide personal notice to property
owners in the subdivision. The notice shall include:
      1.   The name and legal description of the subdivision affected by the
application;
      2.   The proposed changes in the final subdivision plat;
      3.   The place and time at which the application and any accompanying
documents may be reviewed by the public;
      4.   The place and time at which written comments on the proposed
resubdivision may be submitted by the public; and
      5.   The place and time of the public meeting at which the committee will
consider whether to approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the proposed
resubdivision. No sooner than thirty (30) days and no later than forty five
(45) days after notice is published, the committee shall consider the
application for resubdivision at a public meeting and shall approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove the application.
In all other respects, an application for resubdivision shall comply with
section
14-3-7 of this chapter.
   D.   Procedure For Subdivisions When Future Resubdivision Is Indicated:
Whenever land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one or more lots
containing at least twice the required lot area and lot width and there is
reason to believe that such lots eventually will be resubdivided, the committee
may require that the applicant allow for the future opening of streets and the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets. Right of way dedication providing for
the future construction and extension of streets may be made a requirement of
plat approval. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-7-2: PLAT VACATION:
Any plat may be vacated by the owner of the premises at any time before the
sale of any lot therein, by a written instrument to which a copy of the plat is
attached, declaring it to be vacated. If there are public service facilities in
the highways, streets, alleys and other public ways and in easements shown on
the plat, the instrument shall reserve to the applicable governmental unit or
public utility owning such facilities, the property, rights of way and
easements necessary for continuing public service by means of those facilities
and for the maintenance, renewal and reconstruction of the same.
   A.   Procedure For Approval: The instrument of plat vacation shall be
approved by the county board in the same manner as subdivision plats. The
instrument shall also be submitted for approval to the highway commissioner and
to the county engineer and to the district engineer of the Illinois department
of transportation and to the public utility or utilities involved. The county
board, highway commissioner, county engineer or district engineer of the
Illinois department of transportation, as the case may be, may reject any
instrument that abridges or destroys any public rights in any of its streets
and/or alleys.
   B.   Recordation/Filing: The instrument of plat vacation shall be executed,
acknowledge or proved and recorded or filed in the same manner as subdivision
plats. Once recorded or filed the instrument operates to destroy the effect of
the recording of the plat vacated and to divest all public rights in the
streets, alleys and public grounds and all dedications laid out or described in
the plat.
   C.   Partial Plat Vacation: Any part of a plat may be vacated in the manner
provided in paragraph A of this section, and subject to the conditions therein
prescribed.
      1.   Any partial plat vacation shall not abridge or destroy any of the
rights or privileges of other proprietors in such plat.
      2.   Nothing contained in this paragraph C shall authorize the closing or
obstructing of any public highway laid out according to law. (Ord., 9-19-2000)
14-7-3: MINOR ADJUSTMENTS TO REDUCED BUILDING ENVELOPES:
The plat officer may approve minor adjustments to platted reduced building
envelopes (RBE) subject to the procedures and requirements of this section.
   A.   Application Procedure: The subdivider, owner, or authorized agent shall
make a written request for adjustments to reduced building envelopes to the
plat officer. Said written request shall include an "RBE adjustment review
plat" of the subject lot or lots showing the lot(s) immediately adjacent to the
subject lot(s), all information shown on the preliminary plat, all easements,
and proposed adjustments to the RBE (including any adjustments to the reserved
septic areas, if any).
   B.   Review And Approval:
      1.   The plat officer shall review the application for adjustment of RBE
and shall also submit a copy to the supervising sanitarian of the Ogle County
health department for review and written approval. The plat officer and
supervising sanitarian may require additional information to be submitted if
necessary.
      2.   The plat officer and supervising sanitarian may approve an RBE
adjustment only if:
         a.   Any proposed adjustment will not reduce below the minimum area
required or encroach upon any portion of the lot reserved for sewage disposal;
         b.   Any proposed adjustment will not adversely affect the overall
design and/or functionality of the subdivision (i.e., separation between well
and reserved septic areas);
         c.   Any proposed adjustment will not violate the minimum building
setback or yard area requirements pursuant to the Ogle County amendatory zoning
ordinance.
      3.   The plat officer shall notify the applicant in writing promptly upon
a decision being rendered as to whether or not the request for RBE adjustment
has been approved.
         a.   If the application for RBE adjustment is not approved, the plat
officer shall state the reasons for such decision.
         b.   If the application for RBE adjustment is approved, the applicant
shall cause to be filed with the plat officer a plat of survey for the subject
lot(s), indicating the adjusted RBE. The plat of survey shall be signed by the
plat officer and recorded with the Ogle County recorder. The RBE adjustment
shall not take effect until proof of recordation of the plat of survey has been
submitted to the plat officer. (Ord., 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 16
ZONING REGULATIONS
Title, Purpose And Intent   1
Rules And Definitions   2
General Provisions   3
Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses   4
Schedule Of Zoning District Regulations   5
Supplementary District Regulations   6
Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements   7
Sign Regulations   8
Administration And Enforcement   9
Flood Damage Prevention   10
DIVISION 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND INTENT
SECTION:
16-1-1: Title
16-1-2: Repeal Of Previous Ordinance(s)
16-1-3: Purpose
16-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter, including the zoning district maps, made a part hereof, shall be
known and may be cited and referred to hereinafter as the OGLE COUNTY
AMENDATORY ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-1-2: REPEAL OF PREVIOUS ORDINANCE(S):
The Ogle County amendatory zoning ordinance adopted on March 9, 1965, and all
amendments thereto are hereby repealed effective coincident with the effective
date of this chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the zoning of land and
the use of land and buildings within Ogle County in order to promote public
safety, health and general welfare of the citizens.
   A.   These regulations are specifically designed to:
      1.   Secure adequate natural light, pure air and safety from fire and
other dangers;
      2.   Lessen or avoid congestion in the public streets and highways;
      3.   Lessen or avoid the hazards to persons and damage to property
resulting from the accumulation or runoff of storm or flood waters;
      4.   Conserve the value of land or buildings throughout the county;
      5.   Preserve and enhance aesthetic values throughout the county;
      6.   Protect, strengthen and maintain the economic base that agricultural
pursuits provide the county;
      7.   Prevent scattered, haphazard or premature urbanization by guiding
growth in an orderly fashion;
      8.   Prevent an unfair shifting to agricultural and existing landowners
of construction and service costs;
      9.   Maintain and enhance rural community values; and
      10.   Promote the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general
welfare.
   B.   To these ends this chapter is intended to establish certain standards
and accomplish certain objectives to assure the orderly growth in the
undeveloped areas of Ogle County of agriculture, residential, business,
commercial, industrial and complementary developments by providing that:
      1.   Lands best suited for agricultural purposes be protected from the
encroachment of urban type residential and business developments in order to
promote more efficient use of the increasingly reduced area of land in
agricultural uses as the result of expanding urbanization.
      2.   Development within the county occurs in such a fashion as to
minimize conflict between farming and other land uses and the enforcement of
any rule, regulation or ordinance is consistent with the "farm nuisance suit
act", 740 Illinois Compiled Statutes 70/0.01 et seq.
      3.   Existing residential areas and areas designated for expansion of
residential development be suitably located in relationship to business,
commercial and manufacturing areas and be protected against intrusion which
will interfere with the public health, welfare and safety of the residential
community.
      4.   Existing business and commercial areas be protected against the
encroachment of incompatible uses; that business areas be used only for those
retail trade establishments engaged in serving a large volume of daily shoppers
where service business and commercial establishments are not permitted to
encroach upon the continuity of such shopper type business places; that
commercial areas be used for those specialized service business and commercial
establishments, as well as for those uses permitted only in the business area
and that adequate space be provided for off street parking of vehicles of
employees and customers using the business and commercial areas.
      5.   Existing manufacturing areas be given adequate protection;
additional land be designated and regulated for future manufacturing
development so that present industry may expand, and that a wide range of sites
for new industry be provided, having access to transportation facilities and
other features, enabling industry in Ogle County to compete successfully with
industry elsewhere in the national and worldwide markets.
      6.   Areas containing significant natural features such as native
vegetation, rivers, streams, wetlands, etc., or areas with significant
historical and cultural values be preserved and protected, with special
attention to dedicated nature preserves and habitats containing threatened or
endangered natural plant or animal species.
      7.   Areas containing underground deposits of mineral resources be given
adequate protection so that these natural resources will be preserved for
future uses.
      8.   Land necessary for open space is adequately preserved and properly
utilized.
      9.   Where land and structures adjoin incorporated communities and it is
evident that such land could ultimately be annexed to the community, the uses
of such land and buildings be related to the existing and planned land use
pattern of the adjacent communities. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
DIVISION 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
16-2-1: Rules Of Construction
16-2-2: Definitions
16-2-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular numbers shall include the plural number, and the plural,
the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   B.   The word "shall" and "must" are mandatory and not discretionary; the
words "may" or "should" are permissive.
   C.   The word "lot" shall include the words "plot", "piece" and "parcel".
   D.   The phrase "used for" shall include the phrase "arranged for",
"intended for", "designed for", "maintained for" and "occupied for".
   E.   The word "county" means Ogle County, Illinois.
   F.   "HEW Committee" means the health, education and welfare/solid waste
committee of the Ogle County board.
   G.   All measured distances shall be to the nearest integral foot. If a
fraction is one-half foot (1/2') or more, the integral foot next above shall be
taken. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms shall have the meaning set forth except where
otherwise specifically indicated, and shall apply in interpretation and
enforcement of this chapter. Words and terms not defined shall have the meaning
indicated by common dictionary definition.
ABANDONMENT: An action to give up one's right or interest in property.
ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE: A use, building or structure subordinate
to the principal use, building or structure and which is located on the same
zoning lot serving a purpose customarily incidental to the principal use,
building or structure. Accessory uses may be a part of or separate from the
main building, structure or use and shall be located on the same lot as the
principal use, building or structure, except as otherwise specified.
ACCESSORY POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY USES: A use which: a) is subordinate to
and serves a pollution control facility; b) is subordinate in area, extent or
purpose to the pollution control facility served; c) contributes to the
comfort, convenience or necessity of the pollution control facility served;
whether or not it is located on the same zoning lot with the use served. Said
accessory pollution control facility uses include, but are not limited to, all
necessary or required drainage and detention facilities, vehicle and equipment
storage areas, borrow pits and stockpiles, etc.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land having an acreage of one or more which has
not been subdivided by metes and bounds or platted.
ADJACENT: Adjoining, abutting, bordering, touching, or contiguous.
ADULT USES: The definition of "adult uses" specifies the following types of
establishments:
   Adult Arcade: An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or
more motion picture projectors, slide projectors, or similar machines for
viewing by five (5) or fewer persons each are used to show films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. (See definition of Adult Uses:
Specified Sexual Activities or Adult Uses: Specified Anatomical Areas.)
   Adult Bookstore: An establishment that has as a substantial portion of its
stock in trade and offers for sale, for any form of consideration, any one or
more of the following: a) books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed
matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or
other visual representations that are characterized by an emphasis upon the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or b) instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
   Adult Cabaret: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar establishment that
regularly features live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities, or films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions in which
a substantial portion of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing
of material that is characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Motion Picture Theater: An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions in which a substantial portion of the total
presentation time is devoted to the showing of material that is characterized
by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar establishment
characterized by (activities featuring) the exposure of specified anatomical
areas or by specified sexual activities.
   Massage Parlor: An establishment where, for any form of consideration,
massage, alcohol rub, fomentation, electric or magnetic treatment, or similar
treatment or manipulation of the human body is administered, unless such
treatment or manipulation is administered by a medical practitioner,
chiropractor, acupuncturist, physical therapist, or similar professional person
licensed by the state. This definition does not include an athletic club,
health club, school, gymnasium, reducing salon, spa, or similar establishment
where massage or similar manipulation of the human body is offered as an
incidental or accessory service.
   Specified Anatomical Areas: Means and includes any of the following: a) less
than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, buttocks,
anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areola;
or b) human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and
opaquely covered.
   Specified Sexual Activities: Means and includes any of the following: a) the
fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks,
anus, or female breasts; b) sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
including intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy; c) masturbation, actual or
simulated; or d) excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of
the activities set forth in items a through c of this definition.
AGRIBUSINESS: Agriculturally related business such as, but not limited to,
anhydrous ammonia facilities; bulk fertilizer facilities, grain elevators,
grain storage, sale and repair of farm implements; liquid petroleum products;
animal feed storage; seed research and production; sale of seed, wholesale and
retail; preparation, grinding and mixing, wholesale and retail; livestock
depots and buying or sale yards, provided sufficient evidence accompanies the
application that adjoining or neighboring properties will not be adversely
affected by the pollution of air or water.
AGRICULTURAL LABOR HOUSING: One or more buildings, tents, trailers, together
with the land appertaining thereto, established, operated or used as living
quarters for six (6) or more seasonal or temporary workers engaged exclusively
in agricultural activities, including, for the purpose of this definition,
related food processing.
AGRICULTURE: Land, or land and buildings, the principal use of which includes
one of the following: the growing of farm crops, truck garden crops, animal and
poultry husbandry, apiculture, dairying, floriculture, horticulture, nurseries,
pasturage, viticulture, greenhouses, and accessory uses customarily incidental
to agricultural activities including, but not limited to, farm dwellings.
AIRCRAFT HANGARS/TIE DOWNS: An area used for the temporary storage of aircraft,
either enclosed or unenclosed.
AIRCRAFT REPAIR AND SERVICE: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
aircraft.
AIRPORT OR AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD: Any landing area, runway or other facility
(including heliports), designed, used or intended to be used either publicly or
privately by any person or persons for the landing or taking off of aircraft
and hang gliders, including all necessary taxiway, aircraft storage and tiedown
areas, hangars and other necessary buildings and open spaces.
ALLEY: A public way, not more than thirty feet (30') wide, which affords only a
secondary means of access to abutting property.
ALTERATION: Any change in size, shape, character, occupancy, or use of a
building or structure.
AMENDMENT, MAP: An amendment to the zoning district maps of this chapter, which
affects an individual parcel or parcels of land.
AMENDMENT, TEXT: An amendment to the text of this chapter which affects the
whole county.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care,
observation or treatment of domestic animals or pets.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family building, which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit.
Complete kitchen facilities permanently installed shall always be included for
each apartment. (See also definition of Dwelling, Multiple-Family.)
ARTICLES OF RULES AND PROCEDURES: The articles of rules and procedures,
regional pollution control facility committee, enacted by the county board with
respect to the siting of regional pollution control facilities pursuant to the
"environmental protection act", 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.
AUDITORIUM: A room, hall or building made a part of a church, theater, school,
recreation building or other building assigned to the gathering of people as an
audience to hear lectures, plays and other presentations.
AUTOMOBILE AND TRAILER SALES AREA: An open area, other than a street, used for
the display or sale of new or used automobiles or trailers, and where no repair
work is done except for minor incidental repair of automobiles or trailers to
be displayed and sold on the premises.
AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY (CAR WASH): A drive-in or drive-through facility where motor
vehicles are washed with the use of a conveyor and blower, or other cleaning
devices, or a facility providing space, water and equipment for the hand
washing of motor vehicles, whether by customer or the operator.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn or
damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame or
fender straightening or repair and painting of vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and motor
service to automobiles, but not including any operation specified under
"automobile repair, major" as defined herein.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION OR FILLING STATION: A place where gasoline,
kerosene, or any other motor fuel or lubricating oil or grease, for operation
of automobiles, is offered for sale to the public and deliveries are made
directly into motor vehicles, including greasing and oiling on the premises,
and including minor automobile repairs. Automobile service stations shall not
include sale or storage of automobiles or trailers (new or used).
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any place where inoperable motor vehicles or the
parts thereof, or any other inoperable machinery or parts thereof, are stored
in the open and are not being restored to operation; or, any land, building or
structure used for the wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or machinery,
or the parts thereof. The presence on any lot or parcel of land of two (2) or
more inoperable motor vehicles or pieces of machinery which, for a period of
fifteen (15) days, have not been capable of operating under their own power and
from which parts have been or are to be removed shall constitute prima facie
evidence of an automobile wrecking yard.
AWNING: Shall include any structure made of cloth or metal with a metal frame
attached to a building and projecting over a thoroughfare when the same is so
erected as to permit its being raised to a position flat against the building
when not in use.
BANK AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS: Commercial banks, currency exchanges, saving
and loan associations, brokerage offices and other similar financial
institutions, but not including loan offices, financial companies and
pawnshops.
BASEMENT: A story partly or wholly underground. Where more than one-half (1/2)
of its height is above the established curb level or above the average level of
the adjoining ground where the curb level has not been established, a basement
shall be counted as a story for the purposes of height measurement.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: An owner occupied dwelling unit, or portion
thereof, where short term lodging rooms, with or without meals, are provided
for compensation. The owner of the establishment shall live on the premises or
in adjacent premises.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or, in lieu of a street or streets,
by public parks, cemeteries, railroad right of way, bulkhead lines or
shorelines of waterways or corporate boundary lines of municipalities.
BOARDING HOUSE: A residential use consisting of at least one dwelling unit
together with more than two (2) rooms that are rented or are designed or
intended to be rented but which rooms, individually or collectively, do not
constitute separate dwelling units. A boarding house is designed to be occupied
by overnight or weekly guests.
BOAT LANDING: Any ramp, dock, mechanism or device by means of which a boat,
whether powered or not, can be transferred from a trailer to the water.
BOAT LANDING, COMMERCIAL: Any boat landing which is open to the public, or to
members of any club or organization upon the payment of the fee or charge to
the owner, lessee or occupant of the land on which the boat landing is located.
BORROW PIT: Any place or premises where dirt, soil, sand, gravel or other
material is removed, by excavation or otherwise, below the grade of surrounding
land for any purpose other than that necessary and incidental to site grading
or to building, construction or operation of the premises.
BUILDING: Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to the
land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or
by walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows, or openings; and
which is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattels. Any structure with interior areas not normally
accessible for human use such as gas holders, oil tanks, water tanks, grain
elevators, coal bunkers, oil cracking towers and other similar structures are
not considered as buildings.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: See definition of Accessory Building, Structure Or Use.
BUILDING AREA: The area remaining on a building lot after all minimum yard
requirements of this chapter have been complied with.
BUILDING COVERAGE: The area on a zoning lot occupied by buildings and
structures, including accessory buildings.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space on the same zoning lot.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from grade to the highest point of
the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean
height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs. Chimneys,
towers, spires, elevator penthouses, cooling towers and similar projections
other than signs shall not be included in calculating building height.
BUILDING LINE: The line nearest the front of and across a zoning lot,
establishing the minimum open space to provide between the front line of a
building or structure and the street right of way.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A nonaccessory building in which the principal use of the
zoning lot on which it is located is conducted.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY: Any building not designed to be permanently located in the
place where it is, or where it is intended to be placed or affixed.
BUILDING WRECKING YARD: An open area where collapsed buildings, or the material
(s) remaining after building demolition, including mobile homes and
recreational vehicles, are being stored in the open and are not being restored
to a usable and/or safe condition; or, any land, building or structure used for
the wrecking/demolition of buildings and mobile homes and/or recreational
vehicles.
BULK: The term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or
structures and location of the same with respect to one another and including
the following:
   A.   Size and height of buildings;
   B.   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets or other buildings;
   C.   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor area
ratio);
   D.   All open spaces allocated to the buildings;
   E.   Amount of lot area per dwelling unit;
   F.   Required parking areas.
BUS LOT: Any lot or land area used for the storage or layover of public
passenger buses or motor coaches.
BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A building, structure or land use in whole or in part
as a place of business, the ownership, or management of which is separate and
distinct from the ownership or management of any other place of business
located on the same or other lot.
BUSINESS OR SERVICE: Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein
merchandise is exhibited or sold, or which occupies time, attention, labor and
materials, or where services are offered for compensation.
C/N RATIO: The ratio of the amount of carbon to the amount of nitrogen, by
weight, that is present in a substance.
CAMPER: A recreational motor vehicle converted or equipped and primarily used
for living quarters or for human habitation, rather than for the transportation
of freight, goods, wares and merchandise and not used as a commercial vehicle.
CAMPGROUND: Any parcel or tract of land under the control of any person,
organization, or governmental entity wherein sites are offered for the use of
the public or members of an organization for the establishment of temporary
living sites for two (2) or more recreational vehicles or camping units.
CAMPING UNIT: A tent or other type of portable shelter intended, designed, or
used for temporary human occupancy.
CANOPY: Shall include any structure, other than an awning, made of cloth or
metal with frames attached to a building, projected over a thoroughfare, and
carried by a frame supported by the ground or sidewalk.
CAR WASH: See definition of Automobile Laundry (Car Wash).
CARPORT: A roofed automobile shelter with two (2) or more open sides.
CEMETERY: A parcel of land or building dedicated to, and at least a portion of
which is being used for the interment of human remains. A cemetery may include
crematories, mausoleums and columbaria.
CEMETERY, PET: A parcel of land or structure dedicated to, and at least a
portion of which is being used for, the interment of small (domestic) animal or
pet remains. A pet cemetery may include an administrative building, chapel,
crematory and maintenance shop.
CHILDCARE FACILITY: A building or structure other than a private residence
where care, protection and supervision are provided, on a regular schedule, at
least twice a week to children, including children of the adult provider.
CHILDCARE HOME: A private residence where care, protection and supervision are
provided, for a fee, at least twice a week to no more than six (6) children at
one time, including children of the adult provider.
CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL: A medical center or medical clinic is an
establishment where three (3) or more licensed physicians, surgeons, or
dentists engage in the practice of medicine or dentistry, operating on a group
basis with pooled facilities, such as coordinated laboratory, X-ray and allied
departments, and the diagnosis and treatment of humans, which need not, but may
include a drug prescription center (not a drugstore) for the dispensing of
drugs and pharmaceutical products to the patients of said physicians, surgeons
and dentists.
CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE: A nonprofit association or persons who are bona fide
members paying annual dues, which owns, hires or leases a building or portion
thereof, the use of such premises being restricted to members and their guests.
It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on such premises, to members
and their guests, provided adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities
are available. The sale of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests
shall be allowed provided it is secondary and incidental to the promotion of
some other common objective of the organization, and further provided that such
sale of food and alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the applicable
federal, state, county and municipal laws.
COMMUNITY CENTER: A place, structure, or other facility used for and providing
religious, fraternal, social and/or recreational programs generally open to the
public and designed to accommodate and serve significant segments of the
community and not operated for profit.
COMMUNITY CENTER, THEATRICAL: A building or portion thereof, used for a not for
profit organization chartered by the state of Illinois, or local political
jurisdiction, which has as its purpose(s) the promotion, instruction, study and
production of theater art forms.
COMMUNITY RECREATIONAL FACILITY: A facility that includes swim and/or other
racquet sport facilities, not operated for profit. Membership shall be
restricted to people living in a specific geographical area and shall not be
based upon any other criteria.
COMMUNITY SEWER AND/OR WATER SYSTEM: Any system, other than an individual
septic tank or individual well, operated by a municipality or a public utility
for the disposal of wastes and the furnishing of water, or either, to
residential, industrial and/or commercial users, or any privately operated
systems for the distribution of water from a single well, or a system of wells,
and/or the collection and disposal of wastes in a central septic tank, or
system of central septic tanks; provided, that such privately operated water
and/or sewer system shall comply with all applicable statutes of the state of
Illinois, and all applicable regulations and ordinances of all departments,
commission, agencies and political subdivisions of the state of Illinois.
COMPOST: The humuslike product of the process of composting waste, which may be
used as a soil conditioner.
COMPOSTING: The biological treatment process by which micro organisms decompose
the organic fraction of waste, producing compost.
COMPOSTING AREA: Any area of a composting facility where waste, composting
material or compost is unloaded, stored, staged, stockpiled, treated or
otherwise managed.
COMPOSTING MATERIAL: Solid wastes which are in the process of being composted.
CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure which: a) complies
with all the regulations of this chapter or of any amendment thereof governing
bulk of the district in which said building or structure is located; or b) is
designed or intended for a permitted use or conditional permitted use as herein
allowed in the district in which it is located.
CONFORMING USE: Any use of a building or land which conforms with the
regulations of the district in which the building or land is situated. If the
use is a permitted use, but does not conform with the intensity of use
regulations of the district in which it is situated, then the use shall not be
deemed to be a conforming use.
CONSERVATION EASEMENT: A nonpossessory interest in real property imposing
limitations or affirmative obligations the purposes of which include retaining
or protecting natural, scenic or open space values of real property, assuring
its availability for agricultural, forest, recreational or open space use,
protecting natural resources, maintaining or enhancing air or water quality, or
preserving the natural, historical, architectural, archaeological or cultural
aspects of real property.
CONTIGUOUS: See definition of Adjacent.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A retail establishment having a gross floor area of five
thousand (5,000) square feet or less, primarily selling foods as well as other
household goods customarily sold in larger food markets and supermarkets.
CONVENTIONALLY DESIGNED SUBDIVISION: Residential developments where all the
land is divided into house lots and streets, with the only open space typically
being undevelopable wetlands, steep slopes, floodplains and stormwater
management areas.
DEDICATION: Intentional transfer by the developer to the public of ownership of
or an interest in land for a public purpose. Dedication may be effected by
formal conveyance, or by any other method recognized by the laws of the state
of Illinois.
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units per acre of gross land area.
DEVELOPER: Any person, persons, corporation, or government agency undertaking
any "development" as defined in this chapter. The term "developer" includes
such commonly used references as "subdivider", "owner", and "proprietor".
DEVELOPMENT: Any subdivision of land as defined in the Ogle County land
subdivision regulations ordinance, or the construction, reconstruction,
conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any structure;
any mining, excavation, landfill, or land disturbance; and any use or extension
of the use of land.
DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED PERSON: A person suffering from a developmentally
disabling disease or condition including, but not limited to, mental
retardation, epilepsy, autism, cerebral palsy or dyslexia.
DISTRICT: A section or part of the unincorporated portion of the county wherein
this chapter is in force, within which certain uniform regulations and
requirements or various combinations there apply under the provisions of this
chapter.
DRIVEWAY: A private roadway providing access for vehicles to a parking space,
garage, dwelling or other structure.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, but not including a house trailer or
mobile home, designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy, including
single-family dwelling units, two-family dwelling units, and multiple-family
dwelling units, but not including hotels, motels, boarding or lodging houses.
DWELLING, ATTACHED: A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling at one or
more sites by a party wall or walls.
DWELLING, DETACHED: A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open space and
is not connected to any other dwelling unit by roof, walls or porches on the
same lot.
DWELLING, GROUP: A residential building providing a common kitchen and/or
bathroom facilities for five (5) or more unrelated persons. Examples of group
dwellings include rooming houses, boarding houses, fraternities, sororities,
and dormitories.
DWELLING, MODULAR: A building assembly or system of building subassemblies,
designed for habitation as a dwelling for one or more persons, including the
necessary electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilation and other service systems,
which is of closed or open construction and which is made or assembled by a
manufacturer, on or off the building site, for installation, or assembly and
installation, on the building site, with a permanent foundation. "Permanent
foundation" means a closed perimeter formation consisting of materials such as
concrete or concrete block which extends into the ground below frost level.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A multiple-family dwelling unit is a building or
portion thereof, consisting of three (3) or more dwelling units with varying
arrangements of entrance and party walls. The definition of multiple-family
dwelling unit may include, but shall not be limited to, the following terms:
apartment, condominium cooperative, quadrominium, three-flat and triplex.
DWELLING, ROW (PARTY WALL): A row of two (2) to six (6) attached one-family
party wall dwellings, not more than two and one-half (21/2) stories in height
nor more than two (2) rooms in depth, measured from the building line.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached dwelling unit designed exclusively for use
and occupancy by one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A two-family dwelling unit is a building consisting of
two (2) dwelling units which may be either attached, side by side, or one above
the other, with each dwelling unit having a separate or combined entrance or
entrances.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a residential building which are arranged,
designed, used or intended for use by one family, for living or sleeping
purposes and which includes complete kitchen facilities permanently installed
in each dwelling unit.
DWELLING UNIT, EFFICIENCY: A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room for
living, sleeping, and eating plus facilities for cooking and completed bath and
toilet facilities.
DWELLING UNIT, FARM: A single-family dwelling unit located on a farm which is
used or intended for use by the farm's owner, or person employed thereon. Only
one farm dwelling shall be permitted on each farm.
DWELLING UNIT, NONFARM: A single-family dwelling unit which is not a farm
dwelling unit and which is designed for occupancy by a single family.
EASEMENT: A grant of one or more of the property rights by the owner to, or for
the use by, the public, a corporation, or another person or entity.
FAIRGROUNDS: A public or private facility open to the public during certain
periods and on which permitted activities may include, but are not limited to:
livestock exhibition; art, crafts and other material exhibits; equestrian
activities; temporary sales of goods, services and miscellaneous concessions;
and dwellings for watchmen or caretakers.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or a group
of not more than five (5) persons not so related maintaining a common household
in a dwelling unit.
FAMILY CARE HOME FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED: A dwelling for fifteen (15)
or fewer developmentally disabled persons, in which the program size and
content are structured to meet the individual social habilitative, and respite
needs of the persons residing therein, in a residential community setting.
Prior to admitting residents, this dwelling shall comply with applicable
licensing standards of the appropriate federal, state, or local agencies, and
may in addition, house such minimum staff persons as may be received to meet
the standards of the licensing agencies.
FARM: Real property comprising at least forty (40) contiguous acres, in one
ownership, that is used primarily for the commercial, soil dependent
cultivation of agricultural crop production and/or for the raising of
livestock. The term "one ownership" shall include an individual, corporation,
business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association, or two (2) or more
persons having a joint or common interest in the land. For purposes of this
chapter, "farm" does not include property which is primarily used for
residential purposes even though some farm products may be grown or farm
animals bred or fed on the property incidental to its primary use.
FENCE: Any artificially constructed barrier, other than a building, of any
material or combination of materials erected to close or screen areas of land.
FINANCIAL ASSURANCE: Reasonable assurance from a creditworthy party, examples
of which include a surety bond, trust instrument, cash escrow, or irrevocable
letter of credit.
FLEA MARKET: An occasional or periodic sales activity held within a building,
structure or open area where groups of individual sellers offer goods, new and
used, for sale to the public, not to include private garage sales.
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE: The ordinance regulating development within
the floodplain areas of the county (see division 10 of this chapter).
FLOODPLAIN: Those land areas subject to flooding. A flood occurs when heavy
rains or snowmelt send more water downstream than the carrying channel can
handle. Floodplain development is regulated in the unincorporated areas of the
county by the flood damage prevention ordinance.
FREEWAY: A major highway having no intersections at grade and having fully
controlled access, hence "free" from conflicts and interruptions.
FREIGHT FORWARDING: Establishments primarily engaged in undertaking the
transportation of goods from shippers to receivers for a charge covering the
entire transportation route, and in turn, making use of the services of other
transportation establishments as instrumentalities in effecting delivery.
FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building, structure, parcel of land or portion thereof in
which: a) freight is shipped by airplane, motor truck or railroad; or b)
freight is received, assembled, sorted and/or rerouted for local, intrastate or
interstate shipment (see definition of Freight Forwarding). Stored freight
shall not be interpreted as operating a warehouse.
FRONTAGE: The length of any one property line of a premises, which property
line abuts a legally accessible street right of way. For the purposes of
determining yard requirements on corner lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to
streets shall be considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated
in this section.
GARAGE, COMMUNITY: A building or portion thereof, other than a public or repair
garage, providing storage for motor vehicles but no other services, such garage
to be in lieu of private garages within a block or portion of a block.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A private garage is an accessory building or an accessory
portion of the principal building or both which is intended and used to store
motor vehicles.
GOLF COURSE (PUBLIC, SEMIPUBLIC OR PRIVATE): Grounds over which the game of
golf is played, including accessory buildings and land uses incidental thereto
and consisting of not less than sixty (60) acres for each standard nine (9)
hole course, and thirty (30) acres for each nine (9) hole "par 3" course.
GOLF, MINIATURE: A commercial recreational facility, resembling golf,
containing short "holes", the majority of which are under one hundred feet
(100') in length, and primarily utilizing putting irons.
GRADE: A reference plane representing the average finished ground level
adjoining the building at all exterior walls. When the finished ground level
slopes away from the exterior walls, the reference plane shall be established
by the lowest point(s) within the area between the building and the lot line
or, when the lot line is more than six feet (6') from the building between the
building, and a point located six feet (6') from the building.
GROSS FLOOR AREA (For The Purposes Of Determining Requirements For Off Street
Parking And Loading):
   A.   The floor area shall mean the sum of the gross horizontal area of the
several floors of the buildings or portion thereof, devoted to such use,
including accessory storage area located within selling or working space, such
as counters, racks or closets, and any basement floor area devoted to retailing
activities, to the production or processing of goods, or to business or
professional offices.
   B.   However, floor area for the purpose of measurement of off street
parking spaces shall not include floor area devoted primarily to storage
purposes. The following areas shall not be included for the purpose of
measurement of off street parking spaces:
      1.   Floor area devoted to off street parking or loading facilities,
including aisles, ramps and maneuvering space.
      2.   Basement floor area other than area devoted to retaining or service
activities or the production or processing of goods, or to business or
professional offices.
GROUND FLOOR AREA: The lot area covered by a principal building measured at
grade from the exterior walls but excluding open porches or terraces, garages
or carports.
GROUP QUARTERS: A dwelling that houses unrelated individuals (fraternities,
sororities, dormitories and the like).
GUEST, PERMANENT: A permanent guest is a person who occupies or has the right
to occupy a hotel or apartment hotel accommodation as his/her domicile and
place a permanent residence.
GUN CLUB: A facility used for target shooting, trap or skeet, including rifle
and pistol clubs.
GYMNASIUM: A building or portion thereof used for athletic training or sports
activities, including accessory seating for spectators.
HALFWAY HOUSE: A home for not more than nine (9) persons who have demonstrated
a tendency toward alcoholism, drug abuse, mental illness, or antisocial or
criminal conduct, together with not more than two (2) persons providing
supervision and other services to such persons, all of whom live together as a
single housekeeping unit.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: As defined in the Illinois environmental protection act.
HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL SITE: A site at which hazardous waste is disposed.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation, profession, activity, or use that is clearly a
customary, incidental, and secondary use of a residential dwelling unit and
which does not alter the exterior of the property or affect the residential
character of the neighborhood.
HOTEL, APARTMENT: A hotel in which at least ninety percent (90%) of the hotel
accommodations are for occupancy by permanent guests. An apartment hotel having
not less than fifty (50) guestrooms, may have a dining room open to the public
which is accessible only from an inner lobby or corridor.
HOTEL OR MOTOR HOTEL (MOTEL): A facility offering transient lodging
accommodations on a daily rate to the general public and providing additional
services, such as restaurants, meeting rooms, and recreational facilities.
HOUSEHOLD PET: Animals that are customarily kept for personal use or enjoyment
within the home. Household pets shall include, but not be limited to, domestic
dogs, domestic cats, domestic tropical birds and rodents.
JUNK: Includes, but is not limited to, old, dilapidated scrap or abandoned
metal, paper, cardboard, building and construction material and equipment
(including, but not limited to, wood, lumber, concrete, etc.), bottles, glass,
tin cans, appliances, furniture, beds and bedding, rags, rubber, boats, tires,
inoperable motor vehicles, machinery parts, and any other manufactured or
constructed object which has outlived its usefulness in its original form
(notwithstanding the fact that the object may have scrap value or could be
reconditioned) where such object(s), due to its/their present condition and/or
visibility, may reasonably be construed to be unsightly, dangerous or
unsanitary.
JUNKYARD: An open area where "junk", as defined herein, is bought, sold,
exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled including automobile
and building wrecking yards.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: A facility, either state licensed or not, housing dogs,
cats or other household pets where grooming, breeding, boarding, training or
selling of animals is conducted as a business.
KENNEL, PRIVATE: Any building or buildings or land designed or arranged for the
care of dogs and cats belonging to the owner of the principal use, kept for the
purposes of show, hunting, or as pets.
LABORATORY, COMMERCIAL: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing
and analyzing. Manufacturing, assembly, or packaging of products is not
included within this definition.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree
limbs and other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines and trees.
LANDSCAPE WASTE COMPOSTING FACILITY: An establishment for the composting of
waste materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns, shrubbery,
vines and trees. However, property on which the principal use is residential
and on which composting of such materials, accumulated exclusively on site, is
conducted, shall not be considered a landscape waste composting facility.
LANDSCAPED SURFACE AREA RATIO (LSAR): The area of land devoted to pervious
landscaping divided by the site area in accordance with the following formula:
      LSR = 1 - [(ba + pa + oa)/s]; where,
   LSR = Landscape surface ratio
   ba= Building area, the area covered by buildings from the maximum outside
dimensions
   pa = Parking areas, all areas used for parking or loading, or access to
those areas, that is otherwise not landscaped
   oa = Other area, all other paved areas, including patios, walks, entryways,
etc.
   s = Site area, the actual area of the site, minus all existing road right of
way
LAUNDROMAT: A business that provides coin operated self-service type washing,
drying, dry cleaning and ironing facilities; providing that: a) not more than
four (4) persons, including owners, are employed on the premises; and b) no
pick up or delivery service is maintained.
LIVESTOCK: Cattle, horses, sheep, goats, swine, poultry or any other domestic
animals or fowl which are raised for use or sale.
LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT FACILITY: An enclosure designed or used for the purpose of
concentrated feeding or fattening of livestock or management of livestock for
marketing or production.
LOADING SPACE: A space within the main building or on the same lot, providing
for the standing, loading, or unloading of trucks.
LODGING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House.
LOT: A platted parcel of land intended to be separately owned, developed, and
otherwise used as a unit.
LOT AREA: The area of horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes through
front, side, and rear lot lines.
LOT, ASSESSOR'S: A lot identified on an assessor's plat. An assessor's lot may
or may not coincide with a lot of record or a zoning lot.
LOT, CORNER: A lot of which at least two (2) adjacent sides abut for their full
length upon streets, provided that the interior angle at the intersection of
such two (2) sides is less than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT COVERAGE: Shall include the total area of all principal and accessory
buildings as measured along the outside wall at ground level or above as viewed
from above and include all projections other than open porches, fire escapes,
or the first three feet (3') of roof overhang. Roads, driveways, parking lots
and swimming pools shall not be included in the maximum lot coverage
requirement.
LOT DEPTH: The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner.
LOT, KEY: A lot that meets the minimum size and width for the zoning district
in which it is located that is between a reserve (flag) lot and the public road
on which the reserve (flag) lot and the key lot front.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary between a lot and the street right of way on
which it fronts.
LOT LINE, REAR: The lot line most nearly parallel to, and most distant from,
the front line; on corner lots the rear lot line shall be opposite the front of
the structure, except that in the case of uncertainty the zoning administrator
shall determine the rear lot line. If the rear lot line is less than ten feet
(10') in length, such rear lot line shall be determined to be a line which is
not less than ten feet (10') in length, which line shall be parallel to, and at
the maximum distance from, the front lot line.
LOT LINE(S): The lines bounding a "lot" as defined herein.
LOT LINES, SIDE: Lot lines which are not front or rear lot lines.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot that is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been
duly recorded in the office of the Ogle County recorder, or any parcel of land,
whether or not part of a subdivision, that has been officially recorded by a
deed in the office of the Ogle County recorder, provided such lot was of a size
that met the minimum dimensions for lots in the district in which it was
located at the time of recording, was recorded prior to the effective date of
the Ogle County zoning ordinance (March 9, 1965), or has been otherwise
approved.
LOT, RESERVE (FLAG LOT): A lot where access is obtained by way of a narrow
strip of land (reserve strip) from a dedicated street only, where each lot
shall contain the minimum amount of land required for the zoning district in
which it is located exclusive of the portion of the lot used as a reserve
strip. Reserve (flag) lots are allowed only in accordance with the provisions
of section
16-6-5 of this chapter.
LOT, THROUGH (DOUBLE FRONTAGE): A lot that has a pair of opposite lot lines
along two (2) substantially parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot.
Through or double frontage lots are not permitted, except where lots back upon
a major street, upon a body of water in separate or individual ownership, or in
manufacturing and business subdivisions.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured within
the lot boundaries at the front building line.
LOT, ZONING: A single tract of land, which is designated by its owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under
single ownership or control and which meets all requirements of this chapter.
The division of a zoning lot may or may not result in the creation of two (2)
or more zoning lots and a zoning lot or lots may or may not coincide with a lot
of record.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
to be used as a single-family dwelling and which complies with all of the
required conditions of section
16-6-18 of this chapter.
MAP AMENDMENT: See definition of Amendment, Map.
MARQUEE: Shall include any hood or awning of permanent construction projecting
from the wall of a building above an entrance and/or extending over a
thoroughfare.
MINIWAREHOUSE: See definition of Self-Service Storage Facility.
MOBILE HOME: A structure for permanent habitation and so constructed as to
permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently attached to its
frame, from place of its construction to the location, or subsequent locations,
at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and designed to permit the
occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more persons. A mobile home
does not include dependent mobile home, camper, house trailer, recreational
vehicle, private living coach, house car or any other sports or camping
trailers not identified.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any area or premises on which are parked two (2) or more
mobile homes or any premises on which space for parking of mobile homes is
rented, or held out for rent, or on which free occupancy or camping is
permitted to the owner or users of mobile homes for the purpose of securing
their trade. The term "mobile home park" does not include sales lots on which
unoccupied mobile homes, whether new or used, are parked for the purpose of
inspection and sale.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: Any area or subdivision developed primarily for the
installation of mobile homes but from which single-family houses are not
restricted. All installations and structures in any case shall conform to the
provisions of the Ogle County subdivision ordinance. Not included are sales
lots on which unoccupied mobile homes or trailers, whether new or used, are
parked for purposes of inspections and sale.
MOBILE OFFICE: A structure for office use only and so constructed as to permit
its transport on wheels, temporarily (or permanently) attached to its frame,
from place of its construction to the location, or subsequent locations, at
which it is intended to be an office and designed to permit the occupancy
thereof as an office place for one or more persons.
MOTEL: See definition of Hotel Or Motor Hotel (Motel).
MOTOR CARRIER FACILITY, CLASS I: A property upon which a person or company that
provides transportation of freight or passengers using commercial motor
vehicles keeps, parks or stores said commercial motor vehicles where the total
combined number of trucks and trailers shall not exceed eight (8) and provided
vehicle maintenance is conducted only on vehicles owned and operated by the
owner of the property upon which the motor carrier facility is conducted. The
temporary and/or periodic keeping, parking or storing of one truck and/or one
trailer shall not constitute a "motor carrier facility, class I". Commercial
motor vehicles kept, parked or stored on a "farm" as defined herein shall not
constitute a "motor carrier facility, class I" when the principal use of said
commercial motor vehicles is directly related to the agricultural activities on
the farm upon which they are kept, parked or stored.
MOTOR CARRIER FACILITY, CLASS II: A property upon which a person or company
that provides transportation of freight or passengers using commercial motor
vehicles keeps, parks or stores said commercial motor vehicles where the total
combined number of trucks and trailers exceeds eight (8), and provided vehicle
maintenance is conducted only on vehicles owned and operated by the owner of
the property upon which the motor carrier facility is conducted. Commercial
motor vehicles kept, parked or stored on a "farm" as defined herein shall not
constitute a "motor carrier facility, class I" when the principal use of said
commercial motor vehicles is directly related to the agricultural activities on
the farm upon which they are kept, parked or stored.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: See definition of Freight Terminal.
MOTOR VEHICLE, INOPERABLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least fifteen (15) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed,
or on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven properly and
safely under its own power. "Inoperable motor vehicle" shall not include any
motor vehicle kept within a completely enclosed building when not in use, any
motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven
under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations, or to any vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in
the lawful wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure lawfully
established which: a) does not comply with all the regulations of this chapter
or of any amendment hereto governing bulk of the district in which such
building or structure is located; or b) is designed or intended for a
nonconforming use.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any building or structure and the use thereof or the use of
land that does not conform with the regulations of this chapter or any
amendment hereto governing use in the district in which it is located, but
conformed with all of the codes, ordinances and other legal requirements
applicable at the time such building or structure was erected, enlarged or
altered, and the use thereof or the use of land was established.
NURSERY, PLANT: A farm, garden, or other cultivated land together with
accessory structures designed and intended to be used only for the cultivation
and sale of live vegetation.
NURSING HOME: A building intended for use as a medical care facility for
persons who need nursing care and medical service, but do not require intensive
hospital care, licensed by the state of Illinois.
OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE: A certificate issued by the zoning administrator stating
the occupancy and use of land or a building or structure referred to therein
complies with the provisions of this chapter.
OFFICE: A building or portion of a building wherein services are performed
involving predominantly administrative, professional, or clerical operations.
OPEN SALES LOT: A parcel of land used or occupied for the purpose of buying,
selling or trading of all goods and commodities and including the storage of
same prior to sale or exchange.
OPEN SPACE: Permanently preserved common land areas within a residential
development or otherwise to be used for recreation, conservation, agricultural
uses, or preserved in an undeveloped state and/or natural condition. In no
event shall any area of a lot constituting the minimum lot area nor any part of
an existing or future road or right of way be counted as constituting open
space.
OPEN SPACE, COMMON: Open space within or related to a development, not in
individually owned lots or dedicated for public use, but which is designed and
intended for the common use or enjoyment of the residents of the development.
OPEN SPACE SUBDIVISION: Residential developments in which dwellings are grouped
together on part or parts of a parcel, with the remaining acreage preserved as
open space. Open space subdivisions emphasize the preservation of natural
resources and features as a basis for grouping of dwellings.
Homes are separated from adjacent property or other groupings of dwellings by
the substantial open space that is permanently protected from development.
OPEN STORAGE: The keeping, in an area not within a completely enclosed
building, of any goods, junk, material, merchandise, or vehicles in the same
place for more than twenty four (24) hours.
ORDINANCE: Reference to "ordinance" shall be construed as the Ogle County
amendatory zoning ordinance.
PARCEL (TRACT) OF LAND: A separately designated area of land delineated by
identifiable legally recorded boundary lines, which may or may not be a lot of
record.
PARK: Any public or private land available for recreational, educational,
cultural, or aesthetic use.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open, hard surfaced area, other than a street or
public way, designed, arranged and made available for the storage of private
passenger automobiles only, for occupants of the building or buildings for
which the parking area is or buildings for which the parking area is accessory
thereto. Parking area private, shall comply with requirements of division 7,
"Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements", of this chapter.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open, hard surfaced area, other than a street,
intended to be used for the temporary, daily off street parking of passenger
automobiles and commercial vehicle and available to the public whether for
compensation, fee, or as an accommodation to clients or customers. Commercial
vehicles shall be limited to those displaying class B license plates and shall
not include any combination of a trailer or a semitrailer.
PARKING AREA, TRUCK: A truck parking area is any land used or intended to be
used for the storage and parking of trucks, trailers, tractors which includes
commercial vehicles, while not loading or unloading, which display class B and
C license plates.
PARKING SPACE: An unobstructed space or area other than a street or alley that
is permanently reserved and maintained for the parking of one motor vehicle.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Material which is suspended in or discharged into the
atmosphere in finely divided form as a liquid or solid at atmospheric pressure
and temperature.
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: Criteria established to control smoke and particulate
matter, noise, odorous matter, toxic matter, vibration, fire and explosive
hazards, glare and radiation hazards generated by or inherent in uses of land
or buildings.
PLAN OF RECLAMATION: A graphic and written proposal detailing the manner in
which a site that is presently being, or will be used for an extractive use
(quarrying and/or mining of raw materials from the earth) will be used once the
said extractive use has been depleted.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: Land under unified control to be planned and developed as
a whole in a single development operation or a definitely programmed series of
development operations or phases. A planned development includes principal and
accessory structures and uses substantially related to the character and
purposes of the planned development. A planned development is built according
to general and detailed plans that include not only streets, utilities, lots
and building location, and the like, but also site plans for all buildings as
are intended to be located, constructed, used, and related to each other, and
plans for other uses and improvements on the land as related to the buildings.
   A planned development includes a program for the provisions, operations, and
maintenance of such areas, facilities, and improvements as will be for common
use by some or all of the occupants of the planned development district, but
which will not be provided, operated, or maintained at general public expense.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Ogle County regional planning commission.
POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY: Any waste storage site, sanitary landfill, waste
disposal site, waste transfer station, waste treatment facility or waste
incinerator, within the meanings ascribed to these terms pursuant to the
Illinois environmental protection act.
PORCH: A roofed over structure, projecting out from the wall or walls of a main
building and commonly open to the weather in part.
PRIVATE SEWER: A sewer privately owned and directly controlled by the county
health department, state of Illinois and Illinois EPA.
RAILROAD RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for
track operation, but not including depot loading platforms, stations, train
sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops, water towers, etc.
RECREATION VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use that either
has its own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle.
Recreational vehicle more specifically includes:
   Camping Trailer: A vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels and constructed
with collapsible partial side walls that fold for towing by another vehicle and
unfold at the campsite to provide temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping, or travel use.
   Fifth Wheel Trailer: A vehicular unit, mounted on wheels, designed to
provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use,
that is of such size or weight as not to require special highway movement
permit(s), of gross trailer area not to exceed four hundred feet (400') in the
setup mode, and designed to be towed by a motorized vehicle that contains a
towing mechanism that is mounted above or forward of the tow vehicle's rear
axle.
   Motor Home: A vehicular unit designed to provide temporary living quarters
for recreational, camping, or travel use built on or permanently attached to a
self-propelled motor vehicle chassis or on a chassis cab or van that is an
integral part of the completed vehicle.
   Park Trailer: A recreational vehicle that meets the following criteria: a)
built on a single chassis mounted on wheels; b) having a gross trailer area not
exceeding four hundred (400) square feet in the setup mode; and c) certified by
the manufacturer as complying with ANSI A119.5, standard for park trailers.
   Travel Trailer: A vehicular unit, mounted on wheels, that is designed to
provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use,
that is of such size or weight as not to require special highway movement
permit(s) when towed by a motorized vehicle and that has a gross trailer area
not less than three hundred twenty feet (320').
   Truck Camper: A portable unit constructed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, consisting of a roof, floor,
and sides designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the bed of a pickup
truck.
REDUCED BUILDING ENVELOPE (RBE): That portion of a lot that delineates the most
suitable area of a lot for development to occur. Areas beyond the reduced
building envelope areas are restricted against development in order to preserve
the most suitable soils for treating sewage, and to protect unique natural
areas, steep slopes, wetlands, floodplains and other similar areas from
development encroachment. Reduced building envelopes are generally more
restrictive than the typical building setback and yard area requirements
pursuant to the Ogle County amendatory zoning ordinance.
RESERVOIR PARKING SPACES: Those off street parking spaces allocated for
temporary standing of automobiles awaiting entrances to a particular
establishment.
RESTAURANT: A business establishment whose principal business is the selling of
unpackaged food to the customer in a ready to consume state, in individual
servings, or in nondisposable containers, and where the customer consumes these
foods while seated at tables or counters located within the building.
RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN: An establishment that delivers prepared food and/or
beverages to customers in motor vehicles, regardless of whether or not it also
serves prepared food and/or beverages to customers who are not in motor
vehicles, for consumption either on or off the premises.
RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD: Any establishment whose principal business is the sale
of foods, frozen desserts, or beverages in ready to consume individual
servings, for consumption either within the restaurant building or for
carryout, and where either: a) foods, frozen desserts, or beverages are usually
served in paper, plastic, or other disposable containers, and where customers
are not served their food, frozen desserts, or beverages by a restaurant
employee at the same table or counter where the items are consumed; or b) the
establishment includes a drive-up or drive-through service facility or offers
curb service.
RETAIL: The sale of commodities directly to customers when such commodities are
used or consumed by the customer and not purchased primarily for the purpose of
resale.
RETREAT: An area with picnic facilities, space for camping with tents or
recreational vehicles, cabins, meeting hall, swimming pool or fishing pond; all
for providing recreational and study activities.
RIGHT OF WAY: The land opened, reserved, or dedicated for a street, sewer,
water, walk, drainage course or other public use.
ROADSIDE STAND: A structure for the display and sale of agricultural products
which are raised or grown on the property where such structure is located.
ROADWAY: That portion of a right of way, or public or private vehicular
easement which is used or intended to be used for the travel of motor vehicles.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House.
SCHOOL: A facility that provides a curriculum of elementary and secondary
academic instruction, including kindergartens, elementary schools, junior high
schools, and high schools.
SCHOOL, TRADE OR VOCATIONAL: A school which offers instruction in skilled
subjects such as typing shorthand, business machines, carpentry, drafting,
automobile and aircraft mechanics.
SCREENING: Fencing, berms or plantings maintained for the purpose of concealing
from view the area behind such fencing, berms or plantings. When a use is
required to be separated from an adjoining lot or district by screening, such
screening shall be of sufficient size and design to completely conceal such use
when viewed from the adjoining lot or district; provided, however, that no
screening shall exceed the height of eight feet (8').
SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY: A building consisting of individual, self-
contained, compartmentalized, and controlled access units of varying sizes that
are leased or owned for the storage of customer's goods or wares.
SETBACK (BUILDING LINE): The required minimum distance from a road right of way
or lot line that establishes the area within which a structure cannot be
erected or placed, except as may be permitted elsewhere in this chapter.
SHOPPING CENTER: A group of retail stores, planned and developed for the site
upon which they are built, owned and managed as a unit with off street parking
provided on the property.
SIDEWALL HEIGHT, BUILDING: The vertical distance from the average elevation of
the adjacent finished grade to the bottom of the eave or rafters/roof trusses.
SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE: The triangle area of a corner lot bound by the
property lines and a line connecting the two (2) points on the property lines
forty feet (40') from the intersection of the property lines.
SMALL RURAL BUSINESS: A commercial enterprise conducted in a rural area within
the AG-1 agricultural district that is small in scale, subordinate at all times
to established agricultural and/or residential uses, and is owned and operated
by a landowner that also resides on the premises where the business is
conducted. An SRB would typically (shall): a) employ two (2) or fewer persons
(other than members of the immediate family residing on the premises); b) be
conducted from an accessory building; c) provide a service to the area or an
attraction for tourists and travelers; and d) supplement the county tax base.
When an SRB grows to become the dominant use on a zoning lot and is no longer
subordinate to established residential and/or agricultural uses, the owner/
operator shall take action to either rezone the site to an appropriate zoning
classification or relocate the business to an area that is properly zoned for
the use conducted.
SPECIAL USE: See definition of Use, Special.
STABLE, PRIVATE: An accessory building in which equine are kept for private use
and not remuneration, hire, or sale.
STABLE, PUBLIC: A building or land where equine are kept for remuneration,
hire, sale, boarding, riding, or show.
STACKING REQUIREMENTS: For the purposes herein, stacking requirements are the
number of cars that shall be accommodated in a reservoir space while awaiting
ingress or egress to specified business or service establishments. That portion
of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the
floor above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the space between the
floor and the ceiling next above it.
   Any portion of a story exceeding fourteen feet (14') in height shall be
considered as an additional story for each fourteen feet (14') or fraction
thereof.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it, the
space between such floor and the ceiling above it. A basement shall be counted
as a story if it is used for business or dwelling purposes and/or if more than
one- half (1/2) of its height is above curb level, or grade level where no curb
exists.
STREET: A general term denoting a public or private thoroughfare which affords
the principal means of access to abutting property. The term includes all
facilities which normally are found within the right of way; it shall also
include such other designations as highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway,
road, pike, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, court, or other such terms but
shall not include pedestrianway or alley.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building such as the addition,
removal or alteration of bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having location on the ground excluding a
fence or freestanding wall.
STRUCTURE, ATTACHED: A structure having a party wall or common wall with
another structure.
STRUCTURE, DETACHED: A detached structure having no party wall or common wall
with another structure. Bridges, tunnels, breezeways, and other similar means
of connecting one structure to another shall not, for the purpose of this
chapter, be considered to constitute a party wall or common wall.
STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY: Except as hereinafter provided a temporary structure is a
structure designed for a limited period of time or tenure on a zoning lot. A
sign, billboard or other advertising device detached or projecting shall not be
construed to be a temporary structure.
SUBSTANTIAL CONSTRUCTION, DEVELOPMENT OR WORK:
   A.   In a project involving structures, the completion of excavation for
footings and foundations;
   B.   In a project involving no structures or insignificant structures, the
completion of grading;
   C.   In a subdivision, the completion of roads and storm sewers.
SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE: A swimming pool and the apparatus and equipment
pertaining to the swimming pool, maintained by an individual for the sole use
of a family and guests, without charge for admission, and not for the purpose
of profit or in connection with any business operated for profit, located on a
lot as an accessory use to a residence.
SWIMMING POOL, PUBLIC: A swimming pool and the apparatus and equipment
pertaining to the swimming pool, maintained and operated by a municipality or
other units of government for the general public, whether or not an admission
fee is charged.
TARGET RANGE, OUTDOOR: See definition of Gun Club.
TAVERN OR LOUNGE: A building or part thereof where liquors are sold to be
consumed on the premises, but not including restaurants where the principal
business is serving food.
TERMINAL: A depot building or area specifically designated for the storage or
transfer of persons or material, or temporary storage and service of operable
vehicles used in the transport of persons, goods or materials.
TEXT AMENDMENT: See definition of Amendment, Text.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
TRAILER SALES AREA: See definition of Automobile And Trailer Sales Area.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land, buildings and structures
thereon, is designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or
maintained, and shall include any manner or performance of such activity with
respect to the performance standards of this chapter.
USE, LAWFUL: The use of any building, structure or land that conforms with all
of the regulations of this chapter or any amendment hereto, and which conforms
with all codes, ordinances and other legal requirements, as existing at the
time of the enactment of this chapter or any amendment hereto, for the
structure or land that is being considered.
USE, PERMITTED: Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements and
regulations, of this chapter for the district in which such use is located.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
USE, SPECIAL: A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the zoning district but which, if controlled as to
number, area, location, or relation to the neighborhood, would not be
detrimental to public health, safety, or general welfare.
VALUE ADDED AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY: Any activity or process that allows farmers
to retain ownership and that alters the original agricultural product or
commodity for the purpose of gaining a marketing advantage. Value added may
include bagging, packaging, bundling, precutting, etc.
VARIANCE: A relaxation of the terms of this chapter where such variances will
not be contrary to the public interest and where, due to conditions peculiar to
the property and not the results of the actions of the owner, a literal
enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. As
used in this chapter, a variance is authorized only for height, area and size
of a building or structure or size of yards and open spaces. Establishment or
expansion of a use, otherwise prohibited, shall not be allowed by variance nor
shall a variance be granted because of the presence of nonconformities in the
zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning district.
VETERINARY HOSPITAL: A hospital rendering surgical and medical treatment to
animals, and having no limitation on overnight accommodations of such animals.
Crematory facilities shall not be allowed in a veterinary hospital unless
approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency. For the purpose of
this chapter where a veterinary hospital is permitted, a veterinary clinic
shall also be permitted.
WECS PROJECT: The collection of WECS and substations as specified in a special
use permit application pursuant to this chapter.
WECS TOWER: The support structure to which the nacelle and rotor are attached.
WECS TOWER HEIGHT: The distance from the rotor blade at its highest point to
the top surface of the WECS foundation.
WAREHOUSE: A building, structure, or part thereof used principally for the
storage of any goods, materials or merchandise, and not for retail sale of such
goods, materials or merchandise.
WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT: Any building, wherein the primary occupation is the
sale of merchandise in gross for resale, and any such building wherein the
primary occupation is the sale of merchandise to institutional, commercial and
industrial consumers and not for resale of such goods and merchandise.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), COMMERCIAL: All necessary devices that
together convert wind energy into electricity to be sold to wholesale or retail
markets, including the rotor, nacelle, generator, WECS tower, electrical
components, WECS foundation, transformer, and electrical cabling from the WECS
tower to the substation(s).
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), PRIVATE: All necessary devices that
together convert wind energy into electricity, including the rotor, nacelle,
generator, WECS tower, electrical components, WECS foundation, transformer, and
electrical cabling from the WECS tower to any substation(s), where the
aggregate generating capacity is three (3) megawatts (MW) or less, and the WECS
is located on private property for the exclusive use of the owner of the
property on which the WECS is to be located.
YARD: An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided. In measuring a yard for the purpose of
determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of
a rear yard, the least horizontal distance between the lot line and the
building shall be used. Where lots abut a street, all yards abutting said
street shall be measured from the street right of way.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines and from the front lot line to the front building line
in depth.
YARD, REAR: A yard between the rear lot line and the rear setback line.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the minimum side setback line and the adjacent side
property line of the lot, and extending entirely from the front lot line to the
rear lot line.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: Wherever the term "zoning administrator" is used, it
shall mean the zoning administrator appointed by the county board and such
deputies or assistants as have been or shall be duly appointed. That officer is
hereby authorized and it is his or her duty to administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter, making such determinations, interpretations and
orders as are necessary thereof and requiring such plats, plans and other
descriptive material in connection with application for permits as are
necessary to judge compliance with this chapter.
ZONING BOARD: The Ogle County zoning board of appeals.
ZONING DISTRICTS: The districts into which the unincorporated area of Ogle
County, Illinois, has been divided as set forth on the zoning district maps by
townships in atlas form, for the purpose of zoning regulations and
requirements.
ZONING MAP: The township zoning map atlas incorporated herein as a part hereof,
designating zoning districts.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The duly approved and amended ordinance which controls and
regulates zoning in Ogle County. (Ord., 9-17-1996; amd. Ord., 5-20-2003; Ord.,
9-2003; Ord., 5-16-2006; Ord., 12-22-2008; Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
DIVISION 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
16-3-1: Establishment Of Districts
16-3-2: Zoning District Map
16-3-3: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
16-3-4: Zoning Of Streets, Alleys, Public Ways, Waterways And Railroad Rights
Of Way
16-3-5: Scope Of Regulations
16-3-6: Disconnected Territory
16-3-7: Compliance With The Regulations
16-3-8: Private Agreements
16-3-9: Saving Clause
16-3-10: Not A Licensing Ordinance
16-3-11: Cumulative Effect
16-3-12: Land Subdivision Regulations Ordinance
16-3-13: Validity And Severability Clause
16-3-14: Authority To Retain Consultants
16-3-15: Endangered Species Consultation Process
16-3-16: Exemptions
16-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
For the purpose of this chapter, that part of Ogle County outside of
incorporated cities, towns and villages is divided into the following
districts:
AG-1 Agricultural district
IA   Intermediate agricultural district
R-1  Rural residential district
R-2  Single-family residential district
R-3  Mobile home subdivision district (formerly R-4)
R-4  Mobile home park district (formerly R-5)
B-1  Business district (formerly B-1 local business district, B-2 rural
     business district and B-3 highway service business district)
B-2  Business recreation district (formerly B-4 business recreation district)
B-3  Restricted interstate highway area business district (formerly B-5)
I-1  Industrial district (formerly I-1 light industrial district and I-
     2 general industrial district)
PD   Planned development district
 
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-2: ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
The boundaries of the districts above are hereby established as shown on the
"official township zoning district maps", as adopted by the Ogle County board,
together with all subsequent amendments thereto. Official copies of said maps
shall be maintained in the office of the Ogle County zoning administrator and
shall be public records. All subsequent amendments to the zoning maps shall be
designated on said official copies. The said zoning maps, together with the
notations, references and other matters thereon pertaining to zoning district
classifications and regulations shall be as much a part of this chapter as if
such notations, references and other matters were specifically set forth
herein. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-3: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The zoning administrator shall interpret the provisions of this chapter as they
pertain to the location of district boundaries where uncertainty exists as to
the location of the district boundaries in relation to the "official township
zoning district map(s)", subject to the right of appeal to the zoning board of
appeals. The following rules of interpretation shall apply:
   A.   District boundary lines are either the centerlines of railroads,
highways, streets, alleys or easements, or the boundary lines of sections,
quarter sections, divisions of sections, tracts or lots, or such lines extended
unless otherwise indicated;
   B.   In areas not subdivided into lots and blocks, whenever a district is
indicated as a strip adjacent to and paralleling a street or highway, the depth
of such strips shall be in accordance with the dimensions shown on the maps
measured at right angles from the centerline of the street or highway, and the
length of frontage shall be in accordance with dimensions shown on the map from
section, quarter section, or division lines, or centerlines of streets,
highways, or railroad rights of way unless otherwise indicated;
   C.   Where a lot held in one ownership on the effective date hereof is
divided by a district boundary line, the entire lot shall be construed to be
within the less restrictive district; provided, that this provision shall not
apply if it increases the less restrictive portion of the lot by more than
twenty five percent (25%). (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-4: ZONING OF STREETS, ALLEYS, PUBLIC WAYS, WATERWAYS AND RAILROAD RIGHTS
OF WAY:
All streets, alleys, public ways, waterways and railroad rights of way, if not
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as
the property immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets, public ways,
waterways and railroad rights of way. Where the centerline of a street, alley,
public way, waterway or railroad right of way serves as a district boundary,
the zoning of such areas, unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be
deemed to be the same as that of the abutting property up to such centerline.
Land dedicated to street right of way shall not be included in computing
minimum lot area for the purposes of this chapter. However, if through
dedication of street right of way, the area of any lot already established via
the provisions of the Ogle County land subdivision regulations ordinance is
decreased below the minimum area required in the applicable zoning district,
development rights shall not be denied. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-5: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to buildings, structures and
land in the unincorporated area of Ogle County.
All buildings erected hereafter, all uses of land or buildings established
hereafter, all structural alterations or relocation of existing buildings
occurring hereafter, and all enlargements of, or additions to, existing uses
occurring hereafter shall be subject to all regulations of this chapter which
are applicable to the zoning districts in which such buildings, uses or land
shall be located. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-6: DISCONNECTED TERRITORY:
All land which may hereafter be disconnected from any city or village and
become part of the unincorporated area of Ogle County shall be classified in
the AG-1 agricultural district pending a public hearing by the zoning board of
appeals and action by the county board as provided in case of amendment in
section
16-9-7 of this chapter. Such public hearing shall be held within ninety (90)
days after the effective date of any such disconnection, and final action
thereon shall be taken by the county board within thirty (30) days after the
last adjournment of the said public hearing. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-7: COMPLIANCE WITH THE REGULATIONS:
The regulations set by this chapter within each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, except as hereinafter provided.
   A.   No building shall be erected, converted, placed, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used
except for the purpose and in the manner permitted in the district in which the
building or land is located.
   B.   No land required for yards, open spaces, or off street parking or
loading spaces about an existing building or any building hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be considered as required yard, open space, off
street parking or loading spaces for more than one building.
   C.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a zoning lot and in no case shall there be more than one building
devoted to the principal use on such zoning lot except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.
   D.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals, comfort and welfare. Where provisions of this chapter
impose greater restrictions than those of any statute, other ordinance or
regulation, the provisions of this chapter shall be controlling. Where the
provisions of any statute, other ordinance or regulation impose greater
restrictions than this chapter, the provisions of such statute, other ordinance
or regulation shall be controlling. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-8: PRIVATE AGREEMENTS:
This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any other
private agreement; provided, that where the provisions of this chapter are more
restrictive than easements, covenants or other private agreements, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-9: SAVING CLAUSE:
All rights or remedies of the county are expressly saved as to any and all
violations of any previous zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, at the time
of the effective date of the ordinance and the prosecutions of such violations
shall not be abated by the enactment of this chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-10: NOT A LICENSING ORDINANCE:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to be a consent, license or permit to
use any property or to locate, construct or maintain any building, structure or
facility or to carry on any trade, industry, occupation or activity. (Ord., 9-
17-1996)
16-3-11: CUMULATIVE EFFECT:
The provisions of this chapter are cumulative and are additional limitations
upon all other laws and ordinances, heretofore passed or which may be passed
hereafter, governing any subject matter in this chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-12: LAND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ORDINANCE:
All provisions contained in this chapter referring to the Ogle County land
subdivision regulations ordinance refer to said ordinance adopted by the Ogle
County board, and as amended, and the provisions therein are incorporated by
reference where specifically mentioned in this chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-13: VALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any court of competent jurisdiction shall declare any part of this chapter
invalid, such ruling shall not affect any other provisions of this chapter not
specifically included in said ruling.
If any court of competent jurisdiction shall declare invalid the application of
any provision of this chapter to a particular land, parcel, lot, district, use,
building or structure, such ruling shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other land, parcel, lot, district, use, building or structure
not specifically included in said ruling. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-14: AUTHORITY TO RETAIN CONSULTANTS:
The Ogle County regional planning commission, zoning board of appeals, and the
county board may utilize the services of professional consultants for research,
investigation, and professional opinion, for assistance in arriving at
recommendations or decisions. The applicant whose request to either the
regional planning commission, zoning board of appeals or county board requires
the use of such professional services, shall reimburse the county the
reasonable cost it incurred for the services rendered by its consultants within
thirty (30) days after the submission of the bill by the county. The consultant
(s) shall bill for their services at the same hourly rate which they normally
charge municipal clients. The county consultants shall include, but not be
limited to, the persons who provide the county with advice in the fields of
engineering, law, planning, traffic, design and finance. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-15: ENDANGERED SPECIES CONSULTATION PROCESS:
   A.   Pursuant to the "endangered species protection act", the zoning
administrator shall initiate a consultation process with the Illinois
department of natural resources for:
      1.   Any requests for zoning amendment for land currently zoned as
agricultural or other "open space" designation to one that would allow
development;
      2.   Any requests for approval of a planned development, special use
permit, and preliminary and final subdivision plans.
   B.   The following are exempt from the endangered species consultation
process:
      1.   Any requested amendments for land currently zoned, developed and
used in its entirety for commercial, industrial or residential purposes;
      2.   The issuance of zoning certificates and other nondiscretionary
decisions by administrative officials. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-3-16: EXEMPTIONS:
The following uses, buildings and structures shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Buildings and structures or land used for agricultural purposes, as
defined herein, except that agricultural buildings and structures shall conform
to any and all building and setback lines.
In the event that any building, structure or land ceases to be used solely for
agricultural purposes, then such building, structure or land shall be subject
to the applicable regulations of this chapter.
   B.   Poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains,
valves or any other similar distributing equipment of a public utility as
defined in "the public utilities act", if the public utility is subject to "the
messages tax act", "the gas revenue act" or "the public utilities revenue act",
or if such facilities or equipment are located on any rights of way and are
used for railroad purposes.
   C.   The temporary use of land for the installation, maintenance and
operation of facilities used by contractors in the ordinary course of
construction activities when located not less than one thousand feet (1,000')
from any building used for residential purposes; provided, that the period of
such temporary use shall not exceed the duration of the construction contract.
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
DIVISION 4
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
16-4-1: Purpose
16-4-2: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
16-4-3: Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
16-4-4: Nonconforming Uses
16-4-5: Special Uses
16-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this division is to provide for the regulation of nonconforming
buildings, structures and uses and to specify those circumstances and
conditions under which those nonconforming buildings, structures and uses shall
be gradually eliminated upon reaching the end of their respective normal useful
life.
Such nonconforming buildings, structures and uses may be incompatible with and
detrimental to permitted land uses and structures in the zoning districts in
which they are situated; they inhibit present and future development of nearby
properties; and they confer upon their owners and users a position of unfair
advantage. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-4-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
Any "lot of record", as defined herein, which does not comply with the
requirements of the district in which it is located as to lot area and width,
may be used for the erection of a building intended for a use permitted in the
district in which the lot is located; provided, that such building will comply
with all setback and other applicable requirements of this chapter. (Ord., 9-
17-1996)
16-4-3: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
A lawfully existing nonconforming building or structure which does not contain
any nonconforming use, but which does not comply with the applicable
regulations for the zoning district in which it is located, including the
applicable lot size requirements or building bulk regulations, may be continued
so long as it remains otherwise lawful. Nonconforming buildings and structures
shall be subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Enlargement, Repair Or Alteration:
      1.   A nonconforming building or structure may be enlarged, maintained,
repaired or structurally altered; provided, that no such enlargement,
maintenance, repair or structural alteration shall create either any additional
nonconformity or increase the degree of the existing nonconformity of all or
any part of such building or structure, except as provided in paragraph A2 of
this section. Damaged or destroyed buildings or structures shall be subject to
the restrictions contained in paragraph B of this section. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
      2.   An addition to a lawfully existing nonconforming building or
structure that would not meet the strict letter of this chapter but would not
extend further than the original building or structure into any required
setback(s) or yard area(s) of the zoning lot that the original building or
structure is located may be permitted. Before issuing a zoning certificate for
an addition to be constructed under this provision, a notice of the intent to
issue such a zoning certificate shall be sent by certified mail to all
adjoining landowners and any affected highway authority. If any adjoining
landowner or affected highway authority files a written objection with the
zoning administrator within fifteen (15) days' receipt of such notice, a zoning
certificate shall not be issued. The applicant may, however, proceed with an
application for a variation as set forth in section
16-9-6 of this chapter. (Ord., 5-20-2003)
   B.   Damage Or Destruction: In the event that a nonconforming building or
structure is damaged or destroyed by any means, such building or structure may
be restored or reconstructed, provided such restoration or reconstruction is on
the existing foundation of such building or structure. If such restoration or
reconstruction is not on the existing foundation, then such building or
structure shall not be restored unless it shall thereafter conform to the
regulations for the zoning district in which it is located.
   C.   Relocation: No nonconforming building or structure shall be relocated
or moved in whole or in part for any distance whatever to any location on the
same or any other lot unless the entire building or structure shall then
conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located after being
relocated or moved. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-4-4: NONCONFORMING USES:
When the applicable district regulations of this chapter do not allow as a
permitted use either: a) a lawfully existing use of part or all of a building
or other structure, or b) a lawfully existing use of land not involving a
building or structure, such existing use may be continued so long as otherwise
lawful. Nonconforming uses shall be subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Structural Alteration: No structural alteration shall be made to a
building or structure containing a lawfully existing nonconforming use unless
the entire building, structure or use thereof shall thereafter conform to the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      1.   Work may be done for ordinary maintenance and repairs, or on repair
and replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing; provided,
however, that this paragraph shall not be deemed to authorize any violation of
paragraphs B through H of this section.
      2.   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of a building or other structure (other than a
damaged or destroyed building or other structure subject to the provisions of
section
16-4-3 of this division) in accordance with the order of a public official who
is charged with protecting the public safety and who declares such building or
other structure to be unsafe and orders its restoration to a safe condition.
   B.   Extensions: A nonconforming use shall not be extended, expanded,
enlarged or increased in intensity. Such prohibited activities shall include,
without being limited to, the following:
      1.   Extension of a nonconforming use to any building or structure or
land area other than one occupied by such use on the effective date hereof (or
on the effective date of a subsequent amendment or subsequent amendments hereto
that causes such use to become nonconforming).
      2.   Extension of a nonconforming use within a building or structure to
any portion of the floor area that was not occupied by such use on the
effective date hereof (or on the effective date of a subsequent amendment or
subsequent amendments hereto that causes such use to become nonconforming);
provided, however, that a nonconforming use may be extended throughout any part
of such a building or structure that was lawfully and manifestly designed or
arranged for such use on such effective date.
      3.   Operation of a nonconforming use in such a manner as to conflict
with, or to further conflict with, if already conflicting on the effective date
hereof (or on the effective date of a subsequent amendment or subsequent
amendments hereto that results in such use becoming nonconforming), any
performance standards established for the zoning district in which the use is
located.
   C.   Enlargement: No building or structure that is devoted in whole or in
part to a nonconforming use shall be enlarged or added to in any manner unless
such building or structure and the use thereof shall thereafter conform to the
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
Moreover, on any lot that is the site of any nonconforming use, no building, or
structure shall be constructed, enlarged or added to in any manner unless,
after such construction, enlargement or additions, all buildings, structures
and uses located on such lot thereafter conform to the regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located.
   D.   Damage Or Destruction: In the event that any building or structure that
is devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed,
by any means, to such an extent that the cost of restoration to the condition
in which it was before such damage or destruction exceeds fifty percent (50%)
of the current replacement cost of the entire building or structure, exclusive
of foundations, such building or structure and the use thereof shall thereafter
conform to the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
Moreover, even if such damage is fifty percent (50%) or less, no repairs or
restoration shall be made unless restoration is actually begun within one year
after the date of such partial destruction and is diligently pursued to
completion.
   E.   Relocation: No building or structure that is devoted in whole or in
part to a nonconforming use shall be relocated or moved in whole or in part for
any distance whatever, to any other location on the same or any other lot
unless the entire building or structure and the use thereof thereafter conform
to the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located after being so
relocated or moved. Moreover, no nonconforming use of land shall be relocated
or moved, in whole or in part for any distance whatever, to any other location
on the same or any other lot, unless such use thereafter conforms to the
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located after being relocated
or moved.
   F.   Change: A nonconforming use of a building or structure, all or
substantially all of which was originally designed or intended for a use which
is permitted in the district in which it is located, shall not be changed to
any use other than a use permitted in the district in which the land is
located. When a nonconforming use has been changed to a permitted use, it shall
not thereafter be changed back to a nonconforming use.
   G.   Discontinuance Of A Nonconforming Use Of Building, Structure Or Land:
      1.   In the event that operation of a nonconforming use of land is
discontinued for a period of twelve (12) months or more, such nonconforming use
shall not thereafter be reestablished, and any subsequent use or occupancy of
such land shall conform to the regulations of the zoning district in which it
is located. The intent to resume active operation shall not affect the
foregoing restriction.
      2.   In the event that operation of a nonconforming use of all or part of
a building or structure is discontinued for a period of twelve (12) months or
more, such nonconforming use shall not thereafter be reestablished, and any
subsequent use or occupancy of such building or structure shall conform to the
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located. The intent to resume
active operation shall not affect the foregoing restriction.
   H.   Nonconforming Accessory Uses: No nonconforming accessory uses shall
continue after the principal use to which it is necessary has been abolished.
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-4-5: SPECIAL USES:
Where a use exists on the date that this chapter becomes effective (or on the
effective date of a subsequent amendment or subsequent amendments hereto) and
is permitted only as a special use in the district in which it is located, such
use shall not be deemed a nonconforming use, but shall, without further action,
be deemed a lawful special use in such district. No such lawful special use
shall be substantially expanded unless a supplementary special use permit is
secured in accordance with the provisions for this chapter pertaining to
special use permits. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
DIVISION 5
SCHEDULE OF ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
16-5-1: AG-1 Agricultural District
16-5-2: IA Intermediate Agricultural District
16-5-3: R-1 Rural Residential District
16-5-4: R-2 Single-Family Residential District
16-5-5: R-3 Mobile Home Subdivision District
16-5-6: R-4 Mobile Home Park District
16-5-7: B-1 Business District
16-5-8: B-2 Business Recreation District
16-5-9: B-3 Restricted Interstate Highway Area Business District
16-5-10: I-1 Industrial District
16-5-11: PD Planned Development District
16-5-1: AG-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The purpose and intent of the AG-1 agricultural
district is to help implement the goals and objectives of the Ogle County
amendatory comprehensive plan. The long range goal for agricultural land use in
the county is to preserve the most valuable of natural resources, that of
fertile land, for agricultural pursuits and to protect the land best suited for
farming from premature urbanization and the encroachment of incompatible land
uses which would hinder farm operations and irretrievably deplete agricultural
lands. The agricultural district regulations are, therefore, designed to
regulate the use of land and buildings within areas of the county where soil
and topographic conditions are best adapted to the pursuit of agricultural land
uses. It is essential that scattered, indiscriminate urban development within
areas best suited for agriculture be precluded and that orderly urban
development be facilitated. It is hereby declared the legislative intent and
purpose of the AG-1 district that land in the county which is productive should
remain in productivity until such time as the natural growth of municipalities
precludes preservation thereof. (Ord., 5-18-2010)
   Other specific purposes for which this district is established include:
      1.   To preserve woodlands and wetlands associated with farms which,
because of their natural physical features, are useful as water retention and
groundwater recharge areas, and as habitat for plant and animal life; and which
have an important aesthetic and scenic value which contributes to the unique
character of the agricultural district and the county as a whole.
      2.   To provide a basis for land tax assessments which reflect its
existing agricultural nature and owing to these regulations, its limited use
for other purposes.
      3.   To prevent the conversion of agricultural land to scattered nonfarm
development which, when unmanaged, unnecessarily increases the cost of public
services to all citizens and results in the premature disinvestment in
agriculture.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses of land are permitted in this
district:
      Agriculture.
      Apiculture (beekeeping).
      Areas of natural, historical/cultural, geological, educational or
research significance.
      Dwelling unit, farm.
      Egg production, commercial.
      Farm.
      Farm buildings.
      Farm drainage and irrigation systems.
      Forest preserve.
      Game refuge.
      Governmental buildings.
      Grazing and forage.
      Home occupations.
      Landscape waste composting facilities located on farms that are not
required to have an Illinois environmental protection agency (IEPA) permit,
provided such uses are operated in compliance with all IEPA standards
pertaining to on-farm landscape composting facilities pursuant to 35 Illinois
administrative code, subtitle G, part 830.
      Livestock management facility, provided such use(s) are operated in
compliance with all Illinois environmental protection agency rules and
regulations pertaining to agricultural related pollution.
      Livestock waste handling facility, provided such use(s) are operated in
compliance with all Illinois environmental protection agency rules and
regulations pertaining to agricultural related pollution.
      Nursery, plant.
      Single-family dwellings on any parcel less than forty (40) acres in size,
which was legally recorded and existing prior to March 24, 1992, having AG-
1 agricultural district zoning prior to the effective date hereof, and where no
dwelling unit exists thereon.
      Sod farms.
      Stable, private.
      Stable, public, but not including indoor riding arenas (shows), riding
instructions and tack shops.
      Tree farms.
      Value added agricultural activities.
      Other use(s) determined by the planning and zoning committee of the Ogle
County board, upon recommendation of the zoning administrator, to be of the
same general character as and compatible with the foregoing uses, but not
including any use which does not meet the intent of or may become noxious or
offensive in the AG-1 zoning district. (Ord., 9-17-1996; amd. Ord., 5-20-2003)
   C.   Special Uses: The following uses of land may be allowed by a special
use permit:
      Accessory pollution control facility uses.
      Agribusinesses. When applying for a special use permit, the petitioner
must show proof that the business is directly and primarily used by those
actively engaged in the pursuit of agricultural activities. In addition, the
applicant must provide proof, at the time of the hearing, that all local, state
and federal regulations will be complied with in the operation of the use
applied for.
      Agricultural labor housing, accessory to a farm dwelling unit, on a farm,
with a minimum lot area of forty (40) acres.
      Aircraft service and repair.
      Airport or aircraft landing field.
      Animal hospitals, kennels or pounds, provided no building or pen housing
any animals shall be located nearer than one thousand feet (1,000') to any
residential district, or to an incorporated area, or to a dwelling other than
the dwelling of the lessee or the owner of the site.
      Asphalt or concrete batch mix plants.
      Bed and breakfast establishments.
      Blacksmith and welding shop.
      Cemeteries, including crematories and mausoleums, provided no building
shall be located less than one hundred feet (100') from side and rear property
lines.
      Commercial kennels, provided no building or pen housing any animals shall
be located nearer than one thousand feet (1,000') to any residential district,
or to an incorporated area, or to a dwelling other than the dwelling of the
lessee or the owner of the site. Where a commercial kennel is conducted
exclusively from within a completely enclosed building that is designed and
constructed (or altered) so as to minimize animal noise escaping from the
interior of the structure to the outside, and no outside kennels or animal runs
will be provided, then said commercial kennel building may be located not less
than five hundred feet (500') to any residential district, or to an
incorporated area, or to a dwelling other than the dwelling of the lessee or
owner of the site, provided animals are, at all times, kept within said
completely enclosed building except when in transit to and/or from the
commercial kennel facility, or during brief periods of time for cleaning and/or
maintenance of said building.
      Contractor and construction shops.
      Conversion of an existing single-family farm dwelling into a two-family
dwelling, when not less than one dwelling unit will continue to be occupied by
a person and the family thereof, owning, operating or employed full time in
farming operations on the premises.
      Essential public service and public utility uses and structures
including, but not limited to, electrical and telephone substations and
distribution centers, fire stations, police stations, gas regulator stations,
pumping stations, public service sewage treatment plants, water filtration
plants, water reservoirs and towers, well head stations, well separators, gas
regulator stations and other similar public service, public utility and
governmental.
      Ethanol and biodiesel production facilities.
      Excavation, extraction, screening, mining, crushing, washing or quarrying
of raw materials from the earth, provided such operations are not conducted
nearer than one thousand feet (1,000') to any school (public or private), or to
any dwelling other than a residence owned and/or occupied by the owner, lessee
or operator of the premises on which the activity takes place. The removal of
dirt, soil, or sand, when not requiring the use of explosives shall not be
nearer than five hundred feet (500') from any residence. The county may, as a
condition for granting a special use permit under this use, require such
condition or conditions as it deems reasonable under the circumstances,
including, but not limited to, a plan of reclamation and/or a bond.
      Fairgrounds.
      Family care home for the developmentally disabled.
      Furbearing animal farms, provided no building or pen housing any animals
shall be located nearer than one thousand feet (1,000') to any residential
district or to an incorporated area or to a dwelling other than the dwelling of
the lessee or owner of the site.
      Golf courses, regulation size, but not including "par 3" golf courses,
commercially operated driving ranges, or miniature golf courses.
      Greenhouses, wholesale and retail.
      Gun clubs, if located not nearer than one thousand feet (1,000') to any
residence other than that of the owner of lessee of the site.
      Indoor riding arenas (shows), riding instructions and tack shops
accessory to public stables.
      Junkyards, provided screening is provided as defined in section
16-6-22 of this chapter.
      Landscape waste composting facilities that require an Illinois
environmental protection agency permit, on a site not less than forty (40)
acres in area provided such use(s) are in compliance with all Illinois
environmental protection agency standards pertaining to landscape waste
composting facilities pursuant to 35 Illinois administrative code, subtitle G,
part 830, and such use(s) are not located within one thousand three hundred
twenty feet (1,320') (1/4 mile) of any dwelling other than an on site dwelling.
The application shall include such information as required pursuant to 35
Illinois administrative code, subtitle G, part 831.
      Livestock depots, sales yards and auction barns.
      Motor carrier facility, class I.
      Motor carrier facility, class II.
      Oil or gas well drilling, provided such well is or will be located more
than two hundred feet (200') from any residential district or to a dwelling
other than the dwelling of the lessee or owner of the site.
      Pollution control facility, provided that such lots shall conform with
the setback requirement set forth in the applicable state and federal laws and
regulations (refer to section
16-9-12, "Appendix I; Procedure For Filing An Application For Approval Of A
Pollution Control Facility (PCF)", of this chapter, for application procedure
and standards for approval).
      Radio and television towers, commercial.
      Railroad rights of way and trackage and railroad spur tracks for the
loading of grain and mined minerals but not including classification yards,
terminal facilities, piggyback facilities or maintenance facilities.
      Recreational camps or retreats, which may include any of the following:
dining hall, meeting hall, picnic sites, staff and guest lodging quarters,
chapel (religious), areas for tent and recreational vehicle camping.
      Sales yards, wholesale or retail, for agricultural products including,
but not limited to, fruits, vegetables, flowers (fresh or dried), plants, etc.
      Self-service storage facility.
      Single-family dwelling, when constructed on a lot divided and set aside
from a "farm" as defined herein. Lot area shall be not less than one acre and
the lot width shall be not less than one hundred fifty feet (150'). At least
one of the following criteria must be met prior to issuance of a special use
permit for a single-family dwelling in an AG-1 agricultural district:
      1.   Existence of manmade or natural physical features which serve as
barriers to agricultural use on a majority of the property;
      2.   Tree cover (mature), either covering the majority of the property or
the location of which serves as the barrier to agricultural use on the
property;
      3.   Topography and slope unconducive to agricultural use even under
conservation practices.
      4.   Such single-family dwelling is initially intended for and occupied
by a son or daughter, parent or spouse of the owner of the original
agricultural tract from which such lot is set aside for residential purposes.
   In addition to the above, all applicants requesting a special use permit for
a single-family dwelling must certify by affidavit (see section
16-9-13, "Appendix II; Agricultural Acknowledgment Affidavit", of this chapter)
that they have read the preamble to the AG-1 agricultural district regulations,
and if said application is approved by the county board, record with the
property deed said affidavit. Proof of recordation will be required prior to a
zoning certificate being issued by the zoning administrator.
      Small rural business (SRB).
      Tack shop including halters, bridles, saddles, harness, wearing apparel
and equipment used in the raising and training of horses.
      Telephone booths.
      Truck parking areas, the principal use of which is the loading and
shipping of farm products, livestock, fertilizer, etc.
      Wind energy conversion system, commercial.
      Other use(s) determined by the planning and zoning committee of the Ogle
County board, upon recommendation of the zoning administrator, to be of the
same general character as and compatible with the foregoing uses, but not
including any use which does not meet the intent of or may become noxious or
offensive in the AG-1 zoning district. (Ord., 9-17-1996; amd. Ord., 5-20-2003;
Ord., 9-2003; Ord., 5-16-2006; Ord., 12-22-2008; Ord., 5-18-2010)
   D.   Accessory Uses:
      Accessory building or use incidental to the foregoing principal use,
including private garages (either attached or detached), a shed or building for
private domestic storage, private greenhouse, private boat landing.
      Guesthouse for nonpaying guests incidental to the foregoing principal
use, subject to the following:
      1.   The guesthouse shall be used for the occasional housing of guests of
the occupants of the principal building to which the guesthouse is accessory,
and not for permanent occupancy by others as housekeeping units.
      2.   The guesthouse shall be designed and constructed as one dwelling
unit.
      3.   The guesthouse may not be separated from the zoning lot on which it
is constructed unless all resulting lots/parcels are zoning lots meeting the
minimum lot size/width required for the zoning district.
      4.   Not more than one guesthouse shall be allowed per principal dwelling
to which it is incidental and accessory.
      5.   A guesthouse may not exceed eight hundred (800) square feet of total
living area.
      Private wind energy conversion systems (WECS) accessory to an established
agricultural and/or residential use provided that all private WECS towers shall
be set back not less than 1.1 times the tower height from any public road right
of way line, overhead utility transmission lines, communication towers, and
adjacent property lines. The affected road authority, utility, tower owner/
lessee and/or affected adjacent property owner may waive the setback. Said
waiver shall be in writing. However, in no instance shall any part of a private
WECS, including guywires, be located within five feet (5') of any of the
aforementioned items.
      Roadside stands for the sale of products grown or produced on or in the
immediate area of the premises, but not including live animals; provided,
however, that such stand shall contain not more than six hundred (600) square
feet of gross floor area and be set back from the road or street right of way
not less than the required setback in this district. Each roadside stand shall
provide parking for at least five (5) cars for each fifty (50) square feet of
structure, and such parking facilities shall be consistent with the
requirements of division 7, "Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements", of
this chapter. Sales shall be permitted from March 15 through November 15.
      Those uses customarily accessory to the pursuit of agriculture. (Ord., 9-
17-1996; amd. Ord., 9-2003; Ord., 3-18-2004; Ord., 12-22-2008)
   E.   Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   Every farm dwelling unit hereafter shall be erected on a tract of
land defined as a "farm", pursuant to section
16-2-2 of this chapter. The minimum lot width measured at the building line
shall be not less than three hundred feet (300'). (Ord., 9-17-1996)
      2.   A subdivision, for the purpose of the sale or transfer of ownership
of one lot which contains an existing residential building constructed prior to
March 24, 1992, and said lot is not less than one acre in area, with a minimum
width of one hundred fifty feet (150') measured at the street or road right of
way line, may be approved by the plat officer without the review or approval by
the planning, assessment and zoning committee, but shall be otherwise subject
to the provisions of section
16-6-11 of this chapter. When an existing residential building is located not
less than three hundred feet (300') from the nearest public road right of way
from which vehicular access is obtained, a reserve (flag) lot may be created
provided the lot is not less than one acre in area exclusive of the access
strip and said access strip is not less than twenty feet (20') in width. For
the purposes of review, a plat of survey shall be required for said division.
The zoning administrator's and plat officer's signature of approval shall be
required on the survey prior to recording. A dwelling constructed after March
24, 1992, that replaced for any reason (removal/replacement, damage or
destruction/replacement, etc.) a dwelling that existed at the time said
dwelling was constructed may also qualify under this provision. (Ord., 3-18-
2004)
      3.   The lot size for a special use permit may be designated in the
permit granting the special use unless specified as minimum herein.
   F.   Yard Area Requirements:
      1.   Building Setback Line (Front Yard): Every building hereafter erected
or enlarged shall provide and maintain a front yard in accordance with the
following requirements:
         a.   Adjacent to tollways, freeways and limited access highways, all
buildings shall be set back not less than sixty feet (60') from the property
line adjoining a tollway, freeway, or limited access highway. The setback shall
be measured from the established front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such tollway, freeway or limited access highway.
         b.   Adjacent to federal or state highways not less than eighty feet
(80') from the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         c.   Adjacent to a county highway not less than sixty feet (60') from
the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         d.   Adjacent to a township road, or any other road or street not less
than forty feet (40') from the front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such road or street.
      2.   Side Yard: All buildings shall have side yards of not less than
twenty five feet (25'). Where a side yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum
width of such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established
above for front yards.
      3.   Rear Yard: All buildings shall have rear yards of not less than
fifty feet (50'). Where a rear yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width
of such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established above
for front yards.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required in division 7 of this chapter.
   H.   Sign Regulations: Sign regulations are set forth in division 8 of this
chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-5-2: IA INTERMEDIATE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: This district is intended to help implement the
goals and objectives of the Ogle County amendatory comprehensive plan and is
established to preserve the integrity of the AG-1 district by clearly
indicating that, in the AG-1 district, agriculture is the primary use of the
land. Agriculture in the IA district, while important, is not regarded as
necessarily the primary use. The IA district is intended to be an intermediate
zoning district between the AG-1 district and the R-1 rural residential
district. (Ord., 5-18-2010)
   It is the intent that this district be designed so that land less suited for
agricultural use (but which still represents a valuable economic base), that
otherwise might remain idle or unused out of "spot zoning" consideration, may
be utilized for residential purposes. All activities within this district shall
be compatible with surrounding agricultural operations, and shall maintain,
preserve and enhance agricultural land. Agricultural activities are allowed in
this district; however, the raising of livestock shall be in compliance with
the Ogle County health code and all Illinois environmental protection agency
requirements regarding agriculture related pollution. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   B.   Permitted Land Uses: The following uses of land are permitted in this
district:
      Single-family dwelling.
      Any other permitted use listed in the AG-1 agricultural district with the
exception of "single-family dwellings on any parcel less than forty (40) acres
in size, which was legally recorded and existing prior to March 24, 1992,
having AG-1 agricultural district zoning prior to the effective date hereof,
and where no dwelling unit exists thereon". (Ord., 9-17-1996; amd. Ord., 5-18-
2010)
   C.   Special Uses: The following uses of land may be allowed by a special
use permit:
      Any special use listed in the AG-1 agricultural district with the
exception of the following:
      Conversion of an existing single-family farm dwelling into a two-family
dwelling when not less than one dwelling unit will continue to be occupied by a
person and the family thereof, owning, operating or employed full time in
farming operations on the premises;
      Single-family dwelling, when constructed on a lot divided and set aside
from a tract of land, the principal use of which is "agriculture" as defined
herein. Lot area shall be not less than one acre and the lot width shall be not
less than one hundred fifty feet (150'). (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   D.   Accessory Uses:
      Accessory building or use incidental to the foregoing principal use,
including private garages (either attached or detached), a shed or building for
private domestic storage, private greenhouse, private boat landing.
      Guesthouse for nonpaying guests incidental to the foregoing principal
use, subject to the following:
      1.   The guesthouse shall be used for the occasional housing of guests of
the occupants of the principal building to which the guesthouse is accessory,
and not for permanent occupancy by others as housekeeping units.
      2.   The guesthouse shall be designed and constructed as one dwelling
unit.
      3.   The guesthouse may not be separated from the zoning lot on which it
is constructed unless all resulting lots/parcels are zoning lots meeting the
minimum lot size/width required for the zoning district.
      4.   Not more than one guesthouse shall be allowed per principal dwelling
to which it is incidental and accessory.
      5.   A guesthouse may not exceed eight hundred (800) square feet of total
living area.
      Roadside stands for the sale of products grown or produced on or in the
immediate area of the premises, but not including live animals; provided,
however, that such stand shall contain not more than six hundred (600) square
feet of gross floor area and be set back from the road or street right of way
at not less than the required setback in this district. Each roadside stand
shall provide parking for at least five (5) cars for each fifty (50) square
feet of structure, and such parking facilities shall be consistent with the
requirements of division 7, "Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements", of
this chapter. Sales shall be permitted from March 15 through November 15.
      Those uses customarily accessory to the pursuit of agriculture. (Ord., 9-
17-1996; amd. Ord., 3-18-2004; Ord., 12-22-2008)
   E.   Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   The minimum lot area for permitted uses shall be ten (10) acres,
with a minimum lot width measured at the building line of five hundred feet
(500'). (Ord., 5-20-2003)
      2.   The lot size and lot width for a special use permit shall be
designated in the permit granting the special use unless specified as minimum
herein.
   F.   Yard Area Requirements:
      1.   Building Setback Line (Front Yard): Every building hereafter erected
or enlarged shall provide and maintain a front yard in accordance with the
following requirements:
         a.   Adjacent to tollways, freeways and limited access highways, all
buildings shall be set back not less than sixty feet (60') from the property
line adjoining a tollway, freeway, or limited access highway. The setback shall
be measured from the established front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such tollway, freeway or limited access highway.
         b.   Adjacent to federal or state highways not less than eighty feet
(80') from the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         c.   Adjacent to a county highway not less than sixty feet (60') from
the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         d.   Adjacent to a township road, or any other road or street not less
than forty feet (40') from the front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such road or street.
      2.   Side Yard: All buildings shall have side yards of not less than
twenty five feet (25'). Where a side yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum
width of such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established
above for front yards.
      3.   Rear Yard: All buildings shall have rear yards of not less than
fifty feet (50'). Where a rear yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width
of such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established above
for front yards.
   G.   Height Limitations For Buildings And Structures:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings and other nonresidential permitted
buildings and structures, excepting accessory buildings and structures, shall
not exceed thirty five feet (35') in height. Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling
towers, stacks, and necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected over and
above the maximum height of thirty five feet (35'), provided they are
constructed in compliance with any and all other applicable local, state or
federal regulations.
      2.   Church and other places of worship towers and steeples shall not
exceed seventy five feet (75') in height; however, the main building shall not
exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
      3.   Maximum height limitations shall be specified with the granting of a
special use permit.
   H.   Lot Coverage Limitations: No more than ten percent (10%) of the zoning
lot may be occupied by buildings and structures, including accessory buildings.
   I.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required in division 7 of this chapter.
   J.   Sign Regulations: Sign regulations are set forth in division 8 of this
chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-5-3: R-1 RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The R-1 district is intended to help implement the
goals and objectives of the Ogle County amendatory comprehensive plan and is
established for low density residential uses. It is designed for areas with few
or no public improvements and where general conditions are not conducive to
other than low density development. (Ord., 5-18-2010)
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses of land are permitted in this
district:
      Agriculture, with the exception of raising livestock for commercial
purposes; provided, however, that the density of all hoofed animals maintained
on a zoning lot shall not exceed one animal per acre.
      Churches, temples, synagogues or other places of worship.
      Detached single-family dwelling.
      Home occupations.
      Open space subdivision, subject to the requirements of the Ogle County
land subdivision regulations (chapter 14, division 5, "Open Space
Subdivisions", of this code).
      Private stables.
      Public parks, forest preserves, nature preserves and recreational areas.
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
   C.   Special Uses: The following uses of land may be allowed by a special
use permit:
      Bed and breakfast establishment.
      Boarding house.
      Cemeteries, including crematories and mausoleums, on a lot not less than
ten (10) acres in area, provided no building shall be located less than three
hundred feet (300') from a lot line.
      Childcare facility.
      Colleges and universities, including dormitories, fraternities,
sororities and other accessory buildings, structures and uses when located on
the college or university grounds, but not including business colleges and
trade schools when operated for profit.
      Community center.
      Family care home for the developmentally disabled.
      Golf courses, regulation size, but not including "par 3" golf courses,
commercially operated driving ranges, or miniature golf courses.
      Guesthouse for nonpaying guests, providing such facility is used for the
occasional housing of guests of the occupants of the principal building to
which the guesthouse is accessory, and not for permanent occupancy by others as
housekeeping units.
      Nursing homes, hospitals, hospices, developmentally disabled or infirm
institutions and halfway houses.
      Philanthropic institutions.
      Private clubs or lodges, except those of the chief activity of which is a
service normally carried on as a business.
      Private recreational areas or camps.
      Private wind energy conversion systems accessory to an established
residential use provided that all private WECS towers shall be set back not
less than 1.1 times the tower height from any public road right of way line,
overhead utility transmission lines, communication towers, and adjacent
property lines. The affected road authority, utility, tower owner/lessee and/or
affected adjacent property owner may waive the setback. Said waiver shall be in
writing. However, in no instance shall any part of a private WECS, including
guywires, be located within five feet (5') of any of the aforementioned items.
      Public service uses:
      1.   Electric and telephone substations and distribution centers;
      2.   Gas regulator stations;
      3.   Police and fire stations;
      4.   Pumping stations;
      5.   Other public service/governmental uses.
      Radio and television towers, commercial.
      Railroad rights of way and trackage, but not including classification
yards, terminal facilities, piggyback facilities or maintenance facilities.
      Schools, day or nursery, public or private.
      Schools, public or private - nonboarding elementary, junior high, middle
and high. (Ord., 9-17-1996; amd. Ord., 9-2003)
   D.   Accessory Uses:
      Accessory building or use incidental to the foregoing principal use,
including private garages (either attached or detached), a shed or building for
private domestic storage, private greenhouse, private boat landing.
      Roadside stands for the sale of products grown or produced on the
premises, but not including live animals; provided, however, that such stand
shall contain not more than six hundred (600) square feet of gross floor area
and be set back from the road or street right of way at not less than the
required setback in this district. Each roadside stand shall provide parking
for at least five (5) cars for each fifty (50) square feet of structure, and
such parking facilities shall be consistent with the requirements of division
7, "Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements", of this chapter. Sales shall
be permitted from March 15 through November 15.
   E.   Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   The minimum lot area for permitted uses shall be three (3) acres,
with a minimum lot width measured at the building line of three hundred feet
(300') unless located within an "open space subdivision". The lot sizes
stipulated for an "open space subdivision" shall then apply.
      2.   The lot size and lot width for a special use permit may be
designated in the permit granting the special use unless specified as minimum
herein.
      3.   Hospitals shall be located on a zoning lot of not less than ten (10)
acres.
   F.   Yard Area Requirements:
      1.   Building Setback Line (Front Yard): Every building hereafter erected
or enlarged shall provide and maintain a front yard in accordance with the
following requirements, unless a reduction is allowed for reduced building
envelopes pursuant to the land subdivision regulations:
         a.   Adjacent to tollways, freeways and limited access highways, all
buildings shall be set back not less than sixty feet (60') from the property
line adjoining a tollway, freeway, or limited access highway. The setback shall
be measured from the established front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such tollway, freeway or limited access highway.
         b.   Adjacent to federal or state highways not less than eighty feet
(80') from the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         c.   Adjacent to a county highway not less than sixty feet (60') from
the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         d.   Adjacent to a township road, or any other road or street not less
than forty feet (40') from the front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such road or street.
      2.   Side Yard: All buildings shall have side yards of not less than
twenty five feet (25'). Where a side yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum
width of such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established
above for front yards.
      3.   Rear Yard: All buildings shall have rear yards of not less than
fifty feet (50'). Where a rear yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width
of such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established above
for front yards.
   G.   Height Limitations For Buildings And Structures:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings and other nonresidential permitted
buildings and structures, excepting accessory buildings and structures, shall
not exceed thirty five feet (35') in height. Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling
towers, stacks, and necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected over and
above the maximum height of thirty five feet (35'), provided they are
constructed in compliance with any and all other applicable local, state or
federal regulations.
      2.   Church and other places of worship towers and steeples shall not
exceed seventy five feet (75') in height; however, the main building shall not
exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
      3.   Maximum height limitations shall be specified with the granting of a
special use permit.
   H.   Lot Coverage: No more than ten percent (10%) of the area of the zoning
lot may be occupied by buildings and structures, including accessory buildings.
   I.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required in division 7 of this chapter.
   J.   Sign Regulations: Sign regulations are set forth in division 8 of this
chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-5-4: R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: This district is intended to help implement the
goals and objectives of the Ogle County amendatory comprehensive plan and is
established to provide areas in which the principal use of the land is for
single-family dwellings. In this district public water supply and sewer
facilities, essential to public health, should be available and/or provided for
at the time of development.
   Furthermore, it is the intent of this chapter that the R-2 single-family
residential district be located within the one and one-half (1.5) mile area
surrounding incorporated cities and villages in order that public facilities
may be utilized, and on land that is less suitable for agricultural use and
better suited for residential use due to factors such as, but not necessarily
limited to, the following:
      Availability of adequate public facilities and infrastructure;
      Consistency with county and municipal land use plans;
      Impact on existing public facilities and infrastructure;
      Need for additional residential land;
      Suitability of the land for agricultural use (as indicated by the land
evaluation and site assessment (LESA) system);
      Trend(s) of development. (Ord., 5-18-2010)
   B.   Permitted Uses:
      Agriculture, with the exception of raising livestock.
      Churches, temples, synagogues or other places of worship.
      Detached single-family dwelling.
      Home occupations.
      Open space subdivision, subject to the requirements of the Ogle County
land subdivision regulations (chapter 14, division 5, "Open Space
Subdivisions", of this code).
      Public parks, forest preserves, nature preserves and recreational areas.
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
   C.   Special Uses: The following uses of land may be allowed by a special
use permit:
      Any special use listed in the R-1 rural residential district with the
exception of the following:
      Guesthouse for nonpaying guests;
      Private recreational areas or camps;
      Railroad rights of way and trackage.
      Private wind energy conversion systems accessory to an established
residential use provided that all private WECS towers shall be set back not
less than 1.1 times the tower height from any public road right of way line,
overhead utility transmission lines, communication towers, and adjacent
property lines. The affected road authority, utility, tower owner/lessee and/or
affected adjacent property owner may waive the setback. Said waiver shall be in
writing. However, in no instance shall any part of a private WECS, including
guywires, be located within five feet (5') of any of the aforementioned items.
      Two-family dwellings.
      Undertaking establishments, funeral parlors. (Ord., 9-17-1996; amd. Ord.,
12-18-2001; Ord., 9-2003)
   D.   Accessory Uses: Accessory building or use incidental to the foregoing
principal use, including private garages (either attached or detached), a shed
or building for private domestic storage, private greenhouse, private boat
landing.
   E.   Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   When residence lots are not served by public sewer and sewerage
treatment facilities and public (community) water, the minimum lot area, unless
otherwise specified, shall be two (2) acres, with a minimum lot width measured
at the building line of one hundred fifty feet (150'), except as otherwise
required or unless a larger parcel is required by the zoning administrator at
the recommendation of the health administrator to accommodate a drainfield for
a septic system or adequate separation between septic wastes and well water.
   When residence lots are served by public sewer and sewerage treatment
facilities and public water, the minimum lot area, unless otherwise specified,
shall be not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet (0.46 acre) with a
minimum lot width of not less than one hundred feet (100') measured at the
building line.
   When residence lots are served only with public or community water, the
minimum lot area, unless otherwise specified, shall be not less than one acre
(43,560 square feet) with a minimum lot width of not less than one hundred
thirty feet (130') measured at the building line.
   When residence lots are served only by public or community sewers (sewage
treatment facilities), the minimum lot area, unless otherwise specified, shall
be not less than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet with a minimum lot width
of not less than one hundred fifteen feet (115') measured at the building line.
      2.   Churches, temples, synagogues or other places of worship shall be
located on a zoning lot not less than three (3) acres in area.
      3.   The lot area requirement for two-family dwellings shall be
determined by the zoning administrator upon the recommendation of the health
administrator.
      4.   Nursing homes, hospitals, hospices, handicapped or infirm
institutions shall be located on a zoning lot of not less than three (3) acres.
   F.   Yard Area Requirements:
      1.   Building Setback Line (Front Yard): Every building hereafter erected
or enlarged shall provide and maintain a front yard in accordance with the
following requirements, unless a reduction is allowed for reduced building
envelopes pursuant to the land subdivision regulations:
         a.   Adjacent to tollways, freeways and limited access highways, all
buildings shall be set back not less than sixty feet (60') from the property
line adjoining a tollway, freeway, or limited access highway. The setback shall
be measured from the established front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such tollway, freeway or limited access highway.
         b.   Adjacent to federal or state highways not less than eighty feet
(80') from the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         c.   Adjacent to a county highway not less than sixty feet (60') from
the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         d.   Adjacent to a township road, or any other road or street not less
than forty feet (40') from the front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such road or street.
      2.   Side Yard: A side yard on each side of the zoning lot without either
public (community) sewer or water shall be not less than twenty five feet
(25'). When a zoning lot is served by either public (community) sewer or water,
there shall be a side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less than
fifteen feet (15') or ten percent (10%) of the lot width, whichever is less.
   Any lot of record one hundred feet (100') or less in width measured at the
front property line shall be required to maintain a side yard on each side of
the zoning lot of not less than ten percent (10%) of the lot width. Where a
side yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width of such yard for all
buildings shall not be less than that established above for front yards.
      3.   Rear Yard: All buildings shall have rear yards of not less than
thirty feet (30'). Where a rear yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum
width of such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established
above for front yards.
   G.   Height Limitations For Buildings And Structures:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings and other nonresidential permitted
buildings and structures, excepting accessory buildings and structures, shall
not exceed thirty five feet (35') in height. Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling
towers, stacks, and necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected over and
above the maximum height of thirty five feet (35'), provided they are
constructed in compliance with any and all other applicable local, state or
federal regulations.
      2.   Church and other places of worship towers and steeples shall not
exceed seventy five feet (75') in height; however, the main building shall not
exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
      3.   Maximum height limitations shall be specified with the granting of a
special use permit.
   H.   Lot Coverage: No more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of the
zoning lot may be occupied by buildings and structures, including accessory
buildings.
   I.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required in division 7 of this chapter.
   J.   Sign Regulations: Sign regulations are set forth in division 8 of this
chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-5-5: R-3 MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: This district is intended to help implement the
goals and objectives of the Ogle County amendatory comprehensive plan and is
established for permanent mobile homes located in a residence setting providing
for open space and other amenities conducive to other low density development.
(Ord., 5-18-2010)
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses of land are permitted in this
district:
      Detached single-family dwelling.
      Home occupations.
      Manufactured homes.
      Mobile homes, excluding trailers and recreational vehicles as a
residence.
   C.   Prohibited Uses:
      Operation of a mobile home park shall be prohibited in this district.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses of land shall be allowed by a special
use permit:
      Private wind energy conversion systems accessory to an established
residential use provided that all private WECS towers shall be set back not
less than 1.1 times the tower height from any public road right of way line,
overhead utility transmission lines, communication towers, and adjacent
property lines. The affected road authority, utility, tower owner/lessee and/or
affected adjacent property owner may waive the setback. Said waiver shall be in
writing. However, in no instance shall any part of a private WECS, including
guywires, be located within five feet (5') of any of the aforementioned items.
      Public service uses:
      1.   Electric and telephone substations and distribution centers;
      2.   Gas regulator stations;
      3.   Police and fire stations;
      4.   Pumping stations;
      5.   Other public service/governmental uses.
   E.   Accessory Uses:
      Accessory building or use incidental to the foregoing principal use,
including private garages (either attached or detached), a shed or building for
private domestic storage, private greenhouse, private boat landing.
   F.   Lot Area Requirements: When residence lots are not served by public
sewer and sewerage treatment facilities and public (community) water, the
minimum lot area for all permitted and special uses shall be one acre, with a
minimum lot width measured at the building line of one hundred thirty feet
(130'), except as otherwise required or unless a larger parcel is required by
the zoning administrator at the recommendation of the health administrator to
accommodate a drainfield for a septic system or adequate separation between
septic wastes and well water.
   When residence lots are served by public sewer and sewerage treatment
facilities and public water, the minimum lot area shall be not less than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet with a minimum lot width of not less than eighty
feet (80') measured at the building line.
   When residence lots are served only with public or community water, the
minimum lot area shall be not less than twenty one thousand (21,000) square
feet with a minimum lot width of not less than one hundred feet (100') measured
at the building line.
   When residence lots are served only by public or community sewers (sewage
treatment facilities), the minimum lot area shall be not less than fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet with a minimum lot width of not less than ninety
feet (90') measured at the building line.
   G.   Yard Area Requirements:
      1.   Building Setback Line (Front Yard): Every building hereafter erected
or enlarged shall provide and maintain a front yard in accordance with the
following requirements:
         a.   Adjacent to tollways, freeways and limited access highways, all
buildings shall be set back not less than sixty feet (60') from the property
line adjoining a tollway, freeway, or limited access highway. The setback shall
be measured from the established front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such tollway, freeway or limited access highway.
         b.   Adjacent to federal or state highways not less than eighty feet
(80') from the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         c.   Adjacent to a county highway not less than sixty feet (60') from
the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         d.   Adjacent to a township road, or any other road or street not less
than forty feet (40') from the front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such road or street.
      2.   Side Yard: A side yard on each side of the zoning lot without either
public (community) sewer or water shall be not less than twenty five feet
(25'). When a zoning lot is served by either public (community) sewer or water,
there shall be a side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less than
fifteen feet (15') or ten percent (10%) of the lot width, whichever is less.
   Any lot of record one hundred feet (100') or less in width measured at the
front property line shall be required to maintain a side yard on each side of
the zoning lot of not less than ten percent (10%) of the lot width.
   Where a side yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width of such yard
for all buildings shall not be less than that established above for front
yards.
      3.   Rear Yard: All buildings shall have rear yards of not less than
thirty feet (30'). Where a rear yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum
width of such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established
above for front yards.
   H.   Lot Coverage: Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the area of
the zoning lot may be occupied by buildings and structures, including accessory
buildings.
   I.   Height Limitations For Buildings And Structures: No building or
structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed twenty four feet
(24') in height above the averaged finished ground elevation at the perimeter
of such structure.
   J.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required in division 7 of this chapter.
   K.   Sign Regulations: Sign regulations are set forth in division 8 of this
chapter.
   L.   Required Conditions: All installations and structures shall conform to
the provisions of the Ogle County land subdivision regulations ordinance.
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-5-6: R-4 MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: This district is intended to help implement the
goals and objectives of the Ogle County amendatory comprehensive plan and is
established to provide a location for the long term parking of mobile homes in
an area where service and facilities and open space is provided in a
residential setting. (Ord., 5-18-2010)
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses of land are permitted in this
district:
      Mobile home parks, provided they comply with the standards set out in
paragraph K of this section.
      Mobile homes, excluding trailers and recreational vehicles as a
residence.
   C.   Special Uses: The following uses of land may be allowed by a special
use permit:
      Public service uses:
      1.   Electric and telephone substations and distribution centers;
      2.   Gas regulator stations;
      3.   Police and fire stations;
      4.   Pumping stations;
      5.   Other public service/governmental uses.
   D.   Accessory Uses:
      Accessory building or use incidental to the foregoing principal use,
including private garages (either attached or detached), a shed or building for
private domestic storage, private greenhouse, private boat landing.
   E.   Lot Area Requirements: The minimum lot area shall be determined by the
zoning administrator upon the recommendation of the health administrator.
   F.   Yard Area Requirements:
      1.   Building Setback Line (Front Yard): Every building hereafter erected
or enlarged shall provide and maintain a front yard in accordance with the
following requirements:
         a.   Adjacent to tollways, freeways and limited access highways, all
buildings shall be set back not less than sixty feet (60') from the property
line adjoining a tollway, freeway, or limited access highway. The setback shall
be measured from the established front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such tollway, freeway or limited access highway.
         b.   Adjacent to federal or state highways not less than eighty feet
(80') from the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         c.   Adjacent to a county highway not less than sixty feet (60') from
the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         d.   Adjacent to a township road, or any other road or street not less
than forty feet (40') from the front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such road or street.
      2.   Side Yards: Two (2) side yards, each not less than fifteen feet
(15') or ten percent (10%) of the lot width, whichever is less, shall be
provided.
   Where a side yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width of such yard
for all buildings shall not be less than the established above for front yards.
      3.   Rear Yard: All buildings shall have rear yards of not less than
thirty feet (30'). Where a rear yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum
width of such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established
above for front yards.
   G.   Height Limitations For Buildings And Structures: No building or
structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed twenty four feet
(24') in height above the averaged finished ground elevation at the perimeter
of such structure.
   H.   Lot Coverage: Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the lot area
may be occupied by buildings and structures, including accessory buildings.
   I.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required in division 7 of this chapter.
   J.   Sign Regulations: Sign regulations are set forth in division 8 of this
chapter.
   K.   Required Conditions:
      1.   The mobile home park shall be located on a well drained site,
properly graded to ensure rapid drainage and free from stagnant pools of water.
      2.   Public or community sewer and water facilities, as defined in this
chapter, shall be provided for each mobile home.
      3.   Each park shall provide mobile home spaces, and each space shall be
clearly defined or delineated. The average area of all such mobile home spaces
shall be not less than four thousand six hundred (4,600) square feet, the
average width of all spaces shall be not less than forty feet (40'), and no
single space shall be less than three thousand six hundred (3,600) square feet
in area nor less than thirty feet (30') in width.
      4.   Mobile homes shall be so located on each space that there shall be
not less than fifteen feet (15') clearance between mobile homes; provided,
however, that with respect to mobile homes parked end to end, clearance may be
less than fifteen feet (15'), but shall not be less than ten feet (10').
      5.   No mobile home shall be located closer than forty feet (40') to any
community building, including workroom, toilet or laundry facilities provided
in said mobile home park.
      6.   Each mobile home park shall devote not less than twenty five percent
(25%) of its total area to open space provided for the use of the occupants of
the mobile home park.
      7.   Wherever a mobile home park abuts upon an R-1 or R-2 residential
district or a business or industrial use, "screening", as defined in this
chapter and in accordance with section
16-6-22 of this chapter, shall be provided along each lot line which abuts such
residential district.
      8.   A buffer strip not less than twenty feet (20') wide for the purpose
of creating a "screening" as defined in this chapter shall be established and
maintained between a mobile home park and any public park, forest and/or nature
preserve.
      9.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to
avoid casting direct light upon any residence or any property located in a
residential district or upon any public street or park.
      10.   All roads within mobile home parks shall meet the minimum standards
for street design and construction pursuant to the land subdivision
regulations.
      11.   In all other respects, mobile home parks shall comply with all
applicable statutes of the state of Illinois, and all applicable regulations of
all departments, commissions and agencies of the state of Illinois and the
county of Ogle. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-5-7: B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The B-1 local business district is intended to help
implement the goals and objectives of the Ogle County amendatory comprehensive
plan and is intended to provide areas for general retail, service and repair
businesses which serve the surrounding area. This district is provided to
permit the development of these business activities, to protect adjacent areas
against encroachment by incompatible uses, and to lessen congestion on public
roads. To these ends, certain uses which would interfere with the operation of
these business activities and the purpose of this district, have been excluded.
(Ord., 5-18-2010)
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses of land are permitted in this
district:
      Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics not including open kennels and
exercise yards.
      Automobile repair facility, minor.
      Childcare facilities.
      Churches, temples, synagogues and other places of worship.
      Clubs, lodges and meeting rooms.
      Convenience stores, no motor fuel sales.
      Financial institutions.
      Hospitals, hospices and nursing homes.
      Hotel/motel.
      Libraries and reading rooms.
      Local public utility facilities, provided that any installation, other
than poles and equipment attached to the poles, be:
      1.   Adequately screened with landscaping, fencing or walls, or any
combination thereof; or
      2.   Placed underground; or
      3.   Enclosed in a structure in such a manner so as to blend with and
complement the character of the surrounding area.
      Medical, dental and chiropractic offices.
      Mortuaries.
      Offices or office buildings.
      Parking areas, including garages, for automobiles, but not including any
sales of automobiles, or the storage of wrecked or otherwise damaged and
immobilized automotive vehicles for a period in excess of seventy two (72)
hours.
      Police, fire and postal stations.
      Public schools and government buildings.
      Radio and television broadcast studios, excluding transmission towers
which exceed thirty feet (30') in height.
      Recreational establishments: bowling alleys, gymnasiums, health clubs/
spas, skating rinks and other similar recreational establishments.
      Restaurants, including fast food restaurants, except those which provide
drive-through service.
      Sale, lease and/or rental of automobile, motor bikes or motor scooters,
trailers, recreational vehicles, agricultural and/or lawn maintenance
equipment, outdoor furniture, lawn ornaments, waste receptacles and other
material customarily intended for outdoor use. Outdoor display of said
products, new or used, is permitted but not more than seventy five percent
(75%) of the zoning lot shall be used for such purpose, the front yard
requirement shall be complied with, and the zoning lot shall be kept free from
inoperable and/or dilapidated motor vehicles and/or machinery.
      Schools for business, professional, or technical training, but not
including outdoor areas for driving or heavy equipment training.
      Stores, shops, markets, service facilities, and automatic vending
facilities in which goods or services of any kind are offered for sale or hire
to the general public on the premises.
      Trucking, not including freight terminals, provided no major motor
vehicle maintenance or major engine overhauling is conducted.
      Other use(s) determined by the planning and zoning committee of the Ogle
County board, upon recommendation of the zoning administrator, to be of the
same general character as and compatible with the foregoing uses, but not
including any use which does not meet the intent of or may become noxious or
offensive in the B-1 zoning district.
   C.   Special Uses: The following uses of land may be allowed by a special
use permit:
      All permitted land uses set forth above, which exceed two (2) stories or
thirty five feet (35') in height, whichever is less, including rooftop
mechanical equipment attached to a structure.
      Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics, including open kennels and
exercise yards.
      Car washes for automobiles.
      Filling stations for automobiles.
      Major automobile repair facility.
      Restaurants, fast food, which have drive-through facilities.
      Sewage treatment facilities, not including individual sewage treatment
facilities permitted as an accessory use.
      Taverns.
      Other use(s) determined by the planning and zoning committee of the Ogle
County board, upon recommendation of the zoning administrator, to be of the
same general character as and compatible with the foregoing uses, but not
including any use which does not meet the intent of or may become noxious or
offensive in the B-1 zoning district. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   D.   Accessory Land Uses: Subject to compliance with the procedures of this
section, accessory buildings, structures and uses are permitted in conjunction
with a permitted land use or (unless restricted by applicable condition) a
special land use when such accessory building or structure is customarily found
in conjunction with the primary use, and serves only to further the successful
utilization of the primary use. Accessory uses include the following:
      Associated work and storage area required by any business, firm or
service to carry on business operations.
      Devices for the generation of energy, such as solar panels, private wind
energy conversion systems, and similar devices. All private WECS towers shall
be set back not less than 1.1 times the tower height from any public road right
of way line, overhead utility transmission lines, communication towers, and
adjacent property lines. The affected road authority, utility, tower owner/
lessee and/or affected adjacent property owner may waive the setback. Said
waiver shall be in writing. However, in no instance shall any part of a private
WECS, including guywires, be located within five feet (5') of any of the
aforementioned items.
      Dwelling or lodging units, only for watchmen, caretakers, or other
personnel whose residence on the premises is essential to the operation of a
permitted or special use or uses.
      Individual sewage treatment facilities serving an individual building or
use, as approved by the appropriate regulatory agency. (Ord., 9-17-1996; amd.
Ord., 9-2003)
   E.   Height Limitations For Buildings And Structures: The maximum height of
buildings and structures in this district shall be as follows:
      1.   The total height of any structure, including rooftop mechanical
equipment attached to such structure, shall not exceed two (2) stories or
thirty five feet (35') in height, whichever is less, above the averaged
finished ground elevation at the perimeter of such structure unless authorized
by special use permit.
      2.   Total height of any structure authorized by special use permit shall
be authorized by specific condition(s) of the permit.
      3.   Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, stacks, and necessary
mechanical appurtenances may be erected over and above the maximum height of
thirty five feet (35'), provided they are constructed in compliance with any
and all other applicable local, state or federal regulations.
   F.   Minimum Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   Every lot or tract of land shall have an area comprising not less
than forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet (1 acre) with
a minimum lot width measured at the building line of not less than one hundred
feet (100').
      2.   Hospitals shall be situated on tracts of land at least five (5)
acres in area.
   G.   Development Limitations:
      1.   The total gross floor area devoted to any one business, firm or
service shall not exceed twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
      2.   The landscaped surface area ratio (LSAR) shall be no less than 0.35.
      3.   The capacity of auditoriums, churches, clubs, lodges, meeting rooms,
libraries, reading rooms, theaters, or any other facility for public assembly
shall not exceed five hundred (500) persons.
   H.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Building Setback Line (Front Yard): Every building hereafter erected
or enlarged shall provide and maintain a front yard in accordance with the
following requirements:
         a.   Adjacent to tollways, freeways and limited access highways, all
buildings shall be set back not less than sixty feet (60') from the property
line adjoining a tollway, freeway, or limited access highway. The setback shall
be measured from the established front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such tollway, freeway or limited access highway.
         b.   Adjacent to federal or state highways not less than eighty feet
(80') from the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         c.   Adjacent to a county highway not less than sixty feet (60') from
the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         d.   Adjacent to a township road, or any other road or street not less
than forty feet (40') from the front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such road or street.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Two (2) side yards, each not less than five feet (5'), except
hotels/motels shall maintain side yards of not less than twenty five feet
(25').
         b.   Where a lot abuts a residential district, side yard requirements
shall not be less than twenty five feet (25').
         c.   Where a side yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width of
such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established above for
front yards.
      3.   Rear Yard:
         a.   All buildings shall have rear yards of not less than twenty five
feet (25').
         b.   Where a rear yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width of
such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established above for
front yards.
         c.   Where a rear yard abuts a residential district, the rear yard
requirement shall be not less than the rear yard requirement of said adjoining
residential district.
   I.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements and setbacks for parking areas, loading spaces, and
internal drives are set forth in division 7, "Off Street Parking And Loading
Requirements", of this chapter.
   J.   Sign Regulations: Sign regulations are set forth in division 8, "Sign
Regulations", of this chapter.
   K.   Performance Standards:
      1.   Outdoor storage or display of merchandise, materials or equipment is
prohibited.
      2.   All goods produced on the premises shall be sold at retail on the
premises.
      3.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded so as to avoid casting
direct light upon any property located in a residential district or upon any
public street or park. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-5-8: B-2 BUSINESS RECREATION DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: This district is intended to help implement the
goals and objectives of the Ogle County amendatory comprehensive plan and is
intended to provide areas for recreational business type of uses. (Ord., 5-18-
2010)
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses of land are permitted in this
district:
      Amusement establishments, including archery ranges, bowling alleys,
gymnasiums, health clubs, health spas, miniature golf courses, movie theaters
(indoor), shooting galleries (indoor only), swimming pools, skating rinks and
other similar amusement establishments.
      Areas of natural, historic/cultural, educational, geological, or of
research significance.
      Clubs and lodges.
      Live bait/fishing tackle store.
      Motels and hotels.
      Restaurants and snack shops, including fast food restaurants except those
which provide drive-through service.
      Roadside stands for the sale of agricultural products at retail.
      Other use(s) determined by the planning and zoning committee of the Ogle
County board, upon recommendation of the zoning administrator, to be of the
same general character as and compatible with the foregoing uses, but not
including any use which does not meet the intent of or may become noxious or
offensive in the B-2 zoning district.
   C.   Special Uses: The following uses of land may be allowed by a special
use permit:
      Amusement park.
      Campground.
      Carnival.
      Commercial boat landing.
      Drag strip.
      Go-kart track.
      Golf driving range.
      Kiddie park.
      Outdoor theaters and similar outdoor amusement facilities.
      Public utility facilities.
      Racetracks, including, but not necessarily limited to, automobiles, dogs,
horses or motorcycles.
      Restaurants and snack shops which provide drive-through service.
      Sewage treatment facilities, not including individual sewage treatment
facilities permitted as an accessory use.
      Taverns.
      Other use(s) determined by the planning and zoning committee of the Ogle
County board, upon recommendation of the zoning administrator, to be of the
same general character as and compatible with the foregoing uses, but not
including any use which does not meet the intent of or may become noxious or
offensive in the B-2 zoning district. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   D.   Accessory Land Uses: Subject to compliance with this section, accessory
buildings, structures and uses are permitted in conjunction with a permitted
land use or (unless restricted by applicable condition) a special land use when
such accessory building or structure is customarily found in conjunction with
the primary use, and serves only to further the successful utilization of the
primary use. Accessory uses include the following:
      Associated work and storage area required by any business, firm or
service to carry on business operations.
      Devices for the generation of energy, such as solar panels, private wind
energy conversion systems, and similar devices. All private WECS towers shall
be set back not less than 1.1 times the tower height from any public road right
of way line, overhead utility transmission lines, communication towers, and
adjacent property lines. The affected road authority, utility, tower owner/
lessee and/or affected adjacent property owner may waive the setback. Said
waiver shall be in writing. However, in no instance shall any part of a private
WECS, including guywires, be located within five feet (5') of any of the
aforementioned items.
      Dwelling or lodging units, only for watchmen, caretakers, or other
personnel whose residence on the premises is essential to the operation of a
permitted or special use or uses.
      Individual sewage treatment facilities serving an individual building or
use, as approved by the appropriate regulatory agency. (Ord., 9-17-1996; amd.
Ord., 9-2003)
   E.   Height Limitations For Buildings And Structures: The maximum height of
buildings and structures in this district shall be as follows:
      1.   The total height of any structure, including rooftop mechanical
equipment attached to such structure, shall not exceed two (2) stories or
thirty five feet (35') in height, whichever is less, above the averaged
finished ground elevation at the perimeter of such structure unless authorized
by special use permit.
      2.   Total height of any structure authorized by special use permit shall
be authorized by specific condition(s) of the permit.
      3.   Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, stacks, and necessary
mechanical appurtenances may be erected over and above the maximum height of
thirty five feet (35'), provided they are constructed in compliance with any
and all other applicable local, state or federal regulations.
   F.   Minimum Lot Area Requirements: Every lot or tract of land shall have an
area comprising not less than forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560)
square feet (1 acre) with a minimum lot width measured at the building line of
one hundred feet (100').
   G.   Development Limitations:
      1.   The total gross floor area devoted to any one business, firm or
service shall not exceed twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
      2.   The landscaped surface area ratio (LSAR) shall be no less than 0.35.
      3.   The capacity of auditoriums, churches, clubs, lodges, meeting rooms,
libraries, reading rooms, theaters, or any other facility for public assembly
shall not exceed five hundred (500) persons.
   H.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Building Setback Line (Front Yard): Every building hereafter erected
or enlarged shall provide and maintain a front yard in accordance with the
following requirements:
         a.   Adjacent to tollways, freeways and limited access highways, all
buildings shall be set back not less than sixty feet (60') from the property
line adjoining a tollway, freeway, or limited access highway. The setback shall
be measured from the established front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such tollway, freeway or limited access highway.
         b.   Adjacent to federal or state highways not less than eighty feet
(80') from the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         c.   Adjacent to a county highway not less than sixty feet (60') from
the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         d.   Adjacent to a township road, or any other road or street not less
than forty feet (40') from the front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such road or street.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Two (2) side yards, each not less than five feet (5'), except
hotels/motels shall maintain side yards of not less than twenty five feet
(25').
         b.   Where a lot abuts a residential district, side yard requirements
shall not be less than twenty five feet (25').
         c.   Where a side yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width of
such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established above for
front yards.
      3.   Rear Yard:
         a.   All buildings shall have rear yards of not less than twenty five
feet (25').
         b.   Where a rear yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width of
such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established above for
front yards.
         c.   Where a rear yard abuts a residential district, the rear yard
requirement shall be not less than the rear yard requirement of said adjoining
residential district.
   I.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements and setbacks for parking areas, loading spaces, and
internal drives are set forth in division 7, "Off Street Parking And Loading
Requirements", of this chapter.
   J.   Sign Regulations: Sign regulations are set forth in division 8, "Sign
Regulations", of this chapter.
   K.   Performance Standards:
      1.   Outdoor storage or display of merchandise, materials or equipment is
prohibited.
      2.   All goods produced on the premises shall be sold at retail on the
premises.
      3.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded so as to avoid casting
direct light upon any property located in a residential district or upon any
public street or park. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-5-9: B-3 RESTRICTED INTERSTATE HIGHWAY AREA BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: This district is intended to help implement the
goals and objectives of the Ogle County amendatory comprehensive plan and is
established to encourage the most orderly development combining highway
oriented uses through advance planning to assure adequate compatibility and
prevent any adverse effect upon the living environment, and thus promote the
general welfare of the county. In addition, all of the interchanges in the
county shall be developed in complete compliance with the Ogle County land
subdivision regulations ordinance. (Ord., 5-18-2010)
   B.   Permitted Uses:
      None.
   C.   Prohibited Uses: The following uses of land are prohibited in this
district:
      Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics.
      Churches and other places of worship.
      Commercial kennels.
      Industrial uses.
      Outdoor theaters and other similar outdoor amusement facilities, go-kart
tracks, and carnivals.
      Residential uses.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed by a special use
permit:
      Automobile and truck parking lots associated with the principal use.
      Automobile service station, including the servicing of trucks and
trailers in combination with an automobile service station.
      Borrow pits to be reclaimed for recreational use.
      Restaurants, fast food, which have drive-in or drive-through facilities.
      Other similar interstate business type uses not specifically listed above
when found to have economic compatibility with established uses in this
district. Any nonlisted interstate business type uses to be considered shall in
no way have a depreciating effect on adjacent zoning districts.
   E.   Accessory Land Uses: Subject to compliance with the procedures of this
section, accessory buildings, structures and uses are permitted in conjunction
with a special land use when such accessory building or structure is
customarily found in conjunction with the primary use, and serves only to
further the successful utilization of the primary use. Accessory uses include
the following:
      Associated work and storage area required by any business, firm or
service to carry on business operations.
      Devices for the generation of energy, such as solar panels, wind
generators, and similar devices.
      Dwelling or lodging units, only for watchmen, caretakers, or other
personnel whose residence on the premises is essential to the operation of a
permitted or special use or uses.
      Individual sewage treatment facilities serving an individual building or
use, as approved by the appropriate regulatory agency.
   F.   Height Limitations For Buildings And Structures: The maximum height of
buildings and structures in this district shall be as follows:
      1.   The total height of any structure, including rooftop mechanical
equipment attached to such structure, shall not exceed two (2) stories or
thirty five feet (35') in height, whichever is less, above the averaged
finished ground elevation at the perimeter of such structure unless authorized
by special use permit.
      2.   Total height of any structure authorized by special use permit shall
be authorized by specific condition(s) of the permit.
      3.   Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, stacks, and necessary
mechanical appurtenances may be erected over and above the maximum height of
thirty five feet (35'), provided they are constructed in compliance with any
and all other applicable local, state or federal regulations.
   G.   Minimum Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   Every lot or tract of land shall have an area comprising not less
than forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet (1 acre) with
a minimum lot width measured at the building line of not less than one hundred
feet (100').
      2.   Minimum lot depth shall be not less than one hundred twenty five
feet (125').
   H.   Development Limitations:
      1.   The total gross floor area devoted to any one business, firm or
service shall not exceed twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
      2.   All principal buildings servicing land uses in this district shall
be located so as not to be visible from an interstate highway or the crossing
road. Such principal buildings and uses shall be located not less than fifty
feet (50') from any residential district lot line.
   I.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Building Setback Line (Front Yard): Every building hereafter erected
or enlarged shall provide and maintain a front yard in accordance with the
following requirements:
         a.   Adjacent to tollways, freeways and limited access highways, all
buildings shall be set back not less than sixty feet (60') from the property
line adjoining a tollway, freeway, or limited access highway. The setback shall
be measured from the established front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such tollway, freeway or limited access highway.
         b.   Adjacent to federal or state highways not less than eighty feet
(80') from the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         c.   Adjacent to a county highway not less than sixty feet (60') from
the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         d.   Adjacent to a township road, or any other road or street not less
than forty feet (40') from the front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such road or street.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Two (2) side yards, each not less than five feet (5'), except
hotels/motels shall maintain side yards of not less than twenty five feet
(25').
         b.   Where a lot abuts a residential district, side yard requirements
shall not be less than twenty five feet (25').
         c.   Where a side yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width of
such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established above for
front yards.
      3.   Rear Yard:
         a.   All buildings shall have rear yards of not less than twenty five
feet (25').
         b.   Where a rear yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width of
such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established above for
front yards.
         c.   Where a rear yard abuts a residential district, the rear yard
requirement shall be not less than the rear yard requirement of said adjoining
residential district.
   J.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements and setbacks for parking areas, loading spaces, and
internal drives are set forth in division 7, "Off Street Parking And Loading
Requirements", of this chapter.
   K.   Sign Regulations: Sign regulations are set forth in division 8, "Sign
Regulations", of this chapter.
   L.   Performance Standards:
      1.   Outdoor storage or display of merchandise, materials, equipment or
refuse materials is prohibited.
      2.   All goods produced on the premises shall be sold at retail on the
premises.
      3.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded so as to avoid casting
direct light upon any property located in a residential district or upon any
public street or park.
      4.   There shall be no manufacturing, processing or treatment of products
other than that which is clearly customary and essential to the use conducted
on the same premises.
Such uses, operations or products shall not be objectionable due to odor, dust,
smoke, noise, vibration and environmental nuisance or other similar causes.
      5.   Not less than ten percent (10%) of the area of the zoning lot shall
be landscaped and shall be maintained as open space.
      6.   A dense, compact evergreen planting not less than eight feet (8') in
height and eight feet (8') in width shall be provided along the rear lot line
of lots backing on the intersecting highway or freeway. This planting strip
shall be designed as a "no access strip" and maintained in an orderly manner.
All service areas shall be screened by fencing or a dense, compact evergreen
planting.
   M.   Limitation Of Access: The Illinois department of transportation (IDOT)
has developed access regulations for particular interchanges based on map
design and ramp speed. These regulations shall apply only when they are more
restrictive than the following restrictions:
Access from abutting property to an intersecting highway shall be permitted
only at designed access points. Such access shall be located as follows:
      1.   There shall be no access points located within seven hundred feet
(700') (500 feet in urban situations) of the most remote edge of any existing
or proposed on or off ramp of an interchange or within seven hundred feet
(700') (500 feet in urban situations) of median crossovers seven hundred feet
(700') thereafter.
      2.   To avoid dangerous offset intersections, public streets along
opposite sides of intersecting highways shall be located either directly
opposite a median strip crossover or intersections of public streets shall be
separated by not less than four hundred forty feet (440') of lateral distance
to develop turn lanes and accommodate vehicular storage. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-5-10: I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: This district is intended to help implement the
goals and objectives of the Ogle County amendatory comprehensive plan and is
established to provide for industrial uses in areas whose principal use is or
ought to be manufacturing, warehousing, and other limited industrial uses. Uses
in this district shall create a minimum of noise, glare, odor, dust, vibration,
air and water pollutants, fire, explosive, radioactive and other hazardous,
harmful or obnoxious matter. This district is provided to permit the
development of these industrial uses, to protect adjacent areas against
encroachment by incompatible uses, and to lessen congestion on public roads.
(Ord., 5-18-2010)
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses of land are permitted in this
district:
      Automobile repair facility, major and/or minor.
      Business, professional and technical training schools.
      Laundries and dry cleaning plants, not including personal and individual
drop off and pick up service.
      Manufacturing, fabrication, assembly, processing, or packaging of
agricultural produce and any commodity from semifinished materials, except
explosives or flammable gases or liquids.
      Offices or office buildings.
      Parking areas, including garages.
      Police, fire and postal services.
      Printing and duplicating services.
      Public utility facilities.
      Radio, television and communication studios, transmitting or relay
towers, antennas, and other such facilities no greater in height than thirty
feet (30') above the average finished ground elevation at the perimeter of such
structure.
      Railroad switching yards.
      Research laboratories and facilities.
      Sales and renting of equipment and vehicles used by business, industry
and agriculture, excluding retail automobile sales.
      Signs (billboards).
      Terminals for trucks, buses and railroads.
      Towed vehicle storage yards, wherein no individual vehicle may be stored
for a period exceeding ninety (90) days, and involving no auto repair and no
salvage or sale of automobile parts. A ten foot (10') high sightproof fence
shall be provided along all limits of the property.
      Trucking, not including freight terminals.
      Union halls and hiring halls.
      Wholesaling or warehousing of manufactured commodities except live
animals, explosives or flammable gases and liquids.
      Yards for storage of contractors' equipment, materials and supplies,
excluding automobile wrecking yards, junkyards and salvage yards.
      Other use(s) determined by the planning and zoning committee of the Ogle
County board, upon recommendation of the zoning administrator, to be of the
same general character as and compatible with the foregoing uses, but not
including any use which does not meet the intent of or may become noxious or
offensive in the I-1 zoning district. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   C.   Special Uses: The following uses of land may be allowed by a special
use permit:
      All permitted uses which exceed two (2) stories or thirty five feet (35')
in height.
      Adult uses.
      Aircraft hangars/tie downs.
      Aircraft service and repair.
      Airport or aircraft landing field.
      Asphalt or concrete batch mix plants.
      Business service establishments.
      Excavation, extraction, screening, crushing, washing, mining or quarrying
of raw materials from the earth; provided such operations are not conducted
nearer than one thousand feet (1,000') to any school (public or private), or to
any dwelling other than a residence owned and/or occupied by the owner, lessee
or operator of the premises on which the activity takes place. The removal of
dirt, soil, or sand, when not requiring the use of explosives, shall not be
nearer than five hundred feet (500') from any residence. The county may, as a
condition for granting a special use permit, require such condition or
conditions as it deems reasonable under the circumstances, including, but not
limited to, a plan of reclamation and/or a bond.
      Filling stations, including emergency towing and repair services.
      Freight terminals, if the following conditions are complied with:
      1.   The freight terminal shall be under unified ownership and control;
      2.   The zoning lot on which the freight terminal is located shall be
located not closer than two hundred feet (200') to any residence or business
district;
      3.   The operation of a freight terminal shall only be between the hours
of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., Monday through
Friday, and between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon Saturday.
      4.   Scales, if provided, for weighing trucks shall be located on the
same zoning lot as the freight terminal.
      5.   Parking of vehicles and trucks shall be in compliance with division
7, "Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements", of this chapter.
      6.   The number of vehicles with engines operating at any one time shall
be restricted reasonably, as to not emit a concentration of noxious fumes to
endanger public health and welfare.
      7.   Exterior lighting shall be controlled so as to shine away from
adjacent properties.
      8.   Landscaping, including, but not limited to, fencing and berming
shall be provided to create a buffer to adjacent properties of not less than
eighty percent (80%) opacity.
      9.   There shall be no major motor vehicle maintenance or major engine
overhauling on the freight terminal zoning lot.
      Incinerators.
      Intermodal container storage yard subject to the following special
conditions:
      1.   Not less than thirty percent (30%) of the site (area set aside for
storage) shall remain in a landscaped/pervious state.
      2.   The setback for storage from the property line shall be no less than
1.1 times the height of the stacked containers.
      3.   The storage area shall be provided with a suitable base material of
aggregate material, concrete or asphalt.
      4.   Intermodal storage containers shall not be stacked greater than five
(5) high or to a height of greater than fifty feet (50'), whichever is less.
      5.   Containers shall not contain hazardous materials, refuse or garbage.
      6.   Any storage area shall not be located within a designated special
flood hazard area.
      Junkyards.
      Landscape waste composting facilities that are not required to have an
Illinois environmental protection agency permit.
      Landscape waste composting facilities that are required to have an
Illinois environmental protection agency permit.
      Manufacturing of explosives and flammable gases and liquids.
      Pollution control facility, including customary and essential accessory
uses, provided that such lots shall conform with the setback requirement set
forth in the applicable state and federal laws and regulations (refer to
section
16-9-12, "Appendix I; Procedure For Filing An Application For Approval Of A
Pollution Control Facility (PCF)", of this chapter, for application procedure
and standards for approval).
      Radio, television and communication transmitting or relay towers,
antennas, and other such facilities exceeding thirty feet (30') in height, but
no greater in height than two hundred feet (200') above the average finished
ground elevation at the perimeter of such structure.
      Restaurants.
      Sewage treatment plants/facilities.
      Shooting range (outdoor).
      Slaughterhouse/packing plant.
      Warehousing, storage, or wholesaling of live animals, explosives, or
flammable gases and liquids.
      Other use(s) determined by the planning and zoning committee of the Ogle
County board, upon recommendation of the zoning administrator, to be of the
same general character as and compatible with the foregoing uses, but not
including any use which does not meet the intent of or may become noxious or
offensive in the I-1 zoning district.
   D.   Accessory Uses: Subject to compliance with this section, accessory
buildings, structures and uses are permitted in conjunction with a permitted
land use or (unless restricted by applicable condition) a special land use when
such accessory building, structure or use is customarily found in conjunction
with the primary use, is a reasonably necessary incident to the primary use, is
clearly subordinate to the primary use, and serves only to further the
successful utilization of the primary use.
      Accessory uses include the following:
      Devices for the generation of energy, such as solar panels, private wind
energy conversion systems, and similar devices. All private WECS towers shall
be set back not less than 1.1 times the tower height from any public road right
of way line, overhead utility transmission lines, communication towers, and
adjacent property lines. The affected road authority, utility, tower owner/
lessee and/or affected adjacent property owner may waive the setback. Said
waiver shall be in writing. However, in no instance shall any part of a private
WECS, including guywires, be located within five feet (5') of any of the
aforementioned items.
      Dwelling or lodging units, only for watchmen, caretakers, or other
personnel whose residence on the premises is essential to the operation of a
permitted or special use or uses.
      Individual sewage treatment facilities serving an individual building or
use, as approved by the appropriate regulatory agency.
      Signs (business, directional and informational). (Ord., 9-17-1996; amd.
Ord., 9-2003)
   E.   Other Limitations On Uses:
      1.   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or
storage of goods, materials or products shall conform with the standards set
forth herein.
      2.   All business, production, servicing and processing shall take place
within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise specified. Within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of a residential district, all storage shall be in
completely enclosed buildings or structures and storage located elsewhere in
this district may be open to the sky but shall be enclosed by solid walls or
fences (including solid doors or gates thereto) at least eight feet (8') high,
but in no case lower in height than the enclosed storage, and suitably
landscaped; however, open off street loading facilities and open off street
parking of motor vehicles under one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity may be
unenclosed throughout the district, except for such screening of parking and
loading facilities as may be required.
      3.   Uses established on the effective date hereof and by its provisions
which are rendered nonconformities shall be permitted to continue, subject to
the regulations of division 4, "Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses",
of this chapter.
   F.   Height Limitations For Buildings And Structures: The maximum height of
buildings and structures in this district shall be as follows:
      1.   The total height of any structure, including rooftop mechanical
equipment attached to such structure, shall not exceed two (2) stories or
thirty five feet (35') in height, whichever is less, above the averaged
finished ground elevation at the perimeter of such structure unless authorized
by special use permit.
      2.   Total height of any structure authorized by special use permit shall
be authorized by specific condition(s) of the permit.
   G.   Minimum Lot Area Requirements: Every lot or tract of land shall have an
area comprising not less than forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560)
square feet (1 acre) with a minimum lot width measured at the building line of
not less than one hundred feet (100').
   H.   Development Limitations: The landscaped surface area ratio (LSAR) shall
be no less than 0.40.
   I.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Building Setback Line (Front Yard): Every building hereafter erected
or enlarged shall provide and maintain a front yard in accordance with the
following requirements:
         a.   Adjacent to tollways, freeways and limited access highways, all
buildings shall be set back not less than sixty feet (60') from the property
line adjoining a tollway, freeway, or limited access highway. The setback shall
be measured from the established front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such tollway, freeway or limited access highway.
         b.   Adjacent to federal or state highways not less than eighty feet
(80') from the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         c.   Adjacent to a county highway not less than sixty feet (60') from
the front property line (rights of way line) adjoining such highway.
         d.   Adjacent to a township road, or any other road or street not less
than forty feet (40') from the front property line (rights of way line)
adjoining such road or street.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Two (2) side yards, each not less than ten percent (10%) of the
lot width, but not more than twenty five feet (25').
         b.   Where a lot abuts a residential district, side yard requirements
shall not be less than twenty five feet (25').
         c.   Where a side yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width of
such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established above for
front yards.
      3.   Rear Yard:
         a.   All buildings shall have rear yards of not less than twenty five
feet (25').
         b.   Where a rear yard adjoins a road or street, the minimum width of
such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established above for
front yards.
         c.   Where a rear yard abuts a residential district, the rear yard
requirement shall be not less than the rear yard requirement of said adjoining
residential district.
   J.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements and setbacks for parking areas, loading spaces, and
internal drives are set forth in division 7, "Off Street Parking And Loading
Requirements", of this chapter.
   K.   Sign Regulations: Sign regulations are set forth in division 8, "Sign
Regulations", of this chapter.
   L.   Performance Standards: Any use established in the I-1 district after
the effective date hereof shall be operated as to comply with performance
standards set forth herein. No use lawfully established on the effective date
hereof shall be so altered or modified as to conflict, or further conflict with
the performance standards established for the I-1 district. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
      1.   All uses in the I-1 district shall conform to the industrial
performance standards governing the emission of noise, vibration, smoke and
particulate matter, water or other effluent, toxic or noxious matter, fire,
glare, heat or radiation, as cited in the "environmental protection act", 415
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq. (Ord., 5-20-2003)
      2.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded whenever necessary to
avoid casting direct light upon any public street or park. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-5-11: PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   The purpose of the planned development district is to: provide an
opportunity for unique, well planned development on property in unincorporated
Ogle County that cannot be annexed to a municipality but is otherwise in
accordance with the recommendations of the Ogle County comprehensive plan and
considered desirable by the county board; provide a means of achieving greater
flexibility in development of land in a manner not possible in conventional
zones; encourage a more imaginative and innovative design of projects; promote
a more desirable community environment; retain maximum control over both the
structure and future operation of the development and, create the possibility
of nonagricultural uses occurring only in appropriate locations as designated
by the comprehensive plan. The planned development regulations are intended to
encourage imaginative site planning that integrates the development proposal
with existing topography and other natural environmental assets of the land
while conserving the county's rural character. Clustering of units is
encouraged to provide common open space. Under this procedure, well planned
residential, industrial, commercial and other types of land use, individually
or in combination, may be developed in accordance with the standards contained
herein. (Ord., 5-18-2010)
      2.   The planned development district may be used for a planned
development wherein individual uses and structures and lot configurations and
improvements may, at the discretion of the zoning administrator, be exempted
wholly or in part from specific requirements set forth in the county zoning
ordinance and land subdivision regulations provided the proposal:
         a.   Meets the conditions of approval in paragraph C of this section;
         b.   Involves only permitted uses as set forth in paragraph D of this
section; and
         c.   Promotes the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general
welfare and conserves the values of property.
      3.   The county board, upon recommendation by the zoning board of
appeals, may, by ordinance adopted in the same manner as zoning districts are
created, authorize a planned development district when the proposed development
or use of a specific tract of land or area warrants greater flexibility,
control, and density than is afforded under the general regulations of standard
zoning districts. However, it should be noted that these planned development
regulations are not intended to allow excessive densities, or the development
of incompatible land uses, either within the development, or as the development
relates to the general neighborhood. The standards contained in the following
provisions must be strictly adhered to by the applicant. The county board may,
upon proper application, approve a planned development to facilitate the use of
flexible techniques of land development and site design in order to obtain one
or more of the following objectives:
         a.   Environmental design in the development of land that is of a
higher quality than is possible under the regulations otherwise applicable to
the property.
         b.   Diversification in the uses permitted and variation in the
relationship of uses, structures, open space and height of structures in
developments intended as cohesive, unified projects.
         c.   Functional and beneficial uses of open space areas.
         d.   Preservation of natural features of a development site.
         e.   Creation of a safe and desirable living environment for
residential areas characterized by a unified building and site development
program.
         f.   Rational and economic development in relation to public services.
         g.   Efficient and effective traffic circulation, both within and
adjacent to the development site.
   B.   Relationship Of Planned Development Districts To Zoning Map:
      1.   A Mapped District: The PD designation is not intended to be attached
to existing use districts as an overlay. The PD designation as detailed in this
section is a separate use district and may be attached to a parcel of land
through the process of rezoning and zoning map amendment.
      2.   Plan Approval Required: It is the intent of this chapter that no
development or redevelopment of the property encompassed by the PD designation
take place until an acceptable development plan has been reviewed and approved
in conformance with the requirements of this section.
      3.   Types Of Planned Developments: All areas of the county subject to
the PD designation shall be assigned one of the following district
classifications which shall be considered a separate use district and subject
to the specific restrictions and limitations outlined in this section.
         a.   Planned Development - Residential (PD-R): Planned developments
involving residential uses only.
         b.   Planned Development - Commercial (PD-C): Planned developments
involving commercial uses only.
         c.   Planned Development - Manufacturing (PD-M): Planned developments
involving manufacturing uses only.
         d.   Mixed Use Developments (MXD): Planned developments involving a
mixture of residential and nonresidential uses.
   C.   Procedures For Planned Development Approval:
      1.   Preapplication Procedure: Prior to filing any application for
planned development approval, the prospective applicant shall request a
preapplication conference with the zoning administrator. Such request shall
include a brief and general narrative description of the nature, location and
extent of the proposed planned development; concept plan showing general lot
configuration, land use, road/street configuration, total acreage and acreage
by land use; and a list of any professional consultants advising the
prospective applicant with respect to the proposed planned development. Upon
receipt of such request, the zoning administrator shall promptly schedule such
a conference.
      2.   Preliminary Development Plan: A preliminary development plan shall
be submitted with the application for a planned development. A final
development plan, including the requirements of preliminary plan, may be
submitted as a single application. The preliminary plan shall contain the
following information:
         a.   Site And Landscape Plan: One or a series of maps shall be
submitted indicating:
            (1)   An out boundary survey plat and legal description of the
property;
            (2)   Air photo showing site and surrounding area and demarcation
of all taxing bodies;
            (3)   The location, size and height of all existing and proposed
structures on the site;
            (4)   The location and general design (dimensions and materials) of
all driveways, curb cuts and sidewalks including connections to building
entrances;
            (5)   The location, area and number of proposed parking spaces;
            (6)   Existing and proposed grades at an interval of two feet (2')
or less, extended beyond the project site to include adjacent properties and
structures;
            (7)   The location and general type of all existing trees over six
inch (6") caliper and, in addition, an indication of those to be retained;
            (8)   The proposed general use and development of internal spaces,
including all recreational and open space areas, plazas and major landscaped
areas by function, and the general location and description of all proposed
outdoor furniture (seating, lighting, telephones, etc.);
            (9)   Soils information. The zoning administrator may require a
detailed soils map (200 foot grid minimum) prepared by a certified soils
classifier, showing each soil type boundary location of each soil investigation
pit, depth to seasonal high groundwater, and limiting conditions of each soil
type. The criteria for soils mapping set forth in paragraph 14-3-4B7h of this
code shall be used when a detailed soils map is required;
            (10)   Drain tile information;
            (11)   The location and approximate size of all proposed plant
material by type, such as hardwood/deciduous trees, evergreen trees, flowering
trees and shrub masses, and types of ground cover (grass, ivies, etc.).
Planting in parking areas should be included;
            (12)   The location and details of all retaining walls, fences
(including privacy fences, etc.), and earth berms;
            (13)   The description and location of all refuse collection
facilities including screening to be provided;
            (14)   Provisions for both on and off site stormwater drainage and
detention related to the proposed development; and
            (15)   The location and approximate size of all utilities, where
applicable.
   The scale of the drawing or drawings shall be one hundred feet to the inch
(1" = 100'), or if the area of the planned development is more than two hundred
(200) acres in area, two hundred feet to the inch (1" = 200'). The zoning
administrator shall approve of the use of any other scale that may be more
appropriate, either larger or smaller. All drawings shall likewise indicate a
project name, the names of adjoining streets, the applicant's name, a scale, a
north arrow, and the date drawn.
   The applicant may be required to provide, at the applicant's expense,
additional clarification and/or further detail of the site plan, as deemed
necessary by the zoning administrator or zoning board of appeals.
         b.   Site And Building Sections: Schematic or illustrative sections
shall be drawn to scale of one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50') or larger,
indicating both edge conditions and internal grade changes in relation to
principal variations of internal building levels and site line relations to
adjacent structures.
         c.   Typical Elevations: Typical elevations of proposed buildings
shall be provided at a reasonable scale.
         d.   Project Data:
            (1)   Site area (square feet and acres);
            (2)   Allocation of site area by building coverage, parking,
loading and driveways, and open space areas including total open space,
recreation area, landscaped areas and others;
            (3)   Total dwelling units and floor area distributed by general
type (1 bedroom, 2 bedroom, etc.); and total floor area ratio and residential
density distribution;
            (4)   Floor area in nonresidential use by category and total floor
area ratio;
            (5)   Calculations of parking spaces and area in relation to
dwelling units and commercial floor area.
         e.   Project Report: A brief project report shall be provided to
include an explanation of the character of the proposed development,
verification of the applicant's ownership and contractual interest in the
subject site, and anticipated development schedule. At the discretion of the
zoning board of appeals, analyses by qualified technical personnel or
consultants may be required as to the market and financial feasibility, traffic
impact, environmental impact, stormwater and erosion control, etc., of the
proposed development.
         f.   Phased Development: If the planned development is proposed to be
constructed in stages or units during a period extending beyond a single
construction season, a development schedule shall be submitted indicating:
            (1)   The approximate date when construction of the project can be
expected to begin;
            (2)   The order in which the phases of the project will be built;
            (3)   The minimum area and the approximate location of the common
open space and public improvements that will be required at each stage;
            (4)   If any stage or unit as proposed contains a share of open
space or public or private recreation or service facility less than that which
in size, number of units or density would otherwise require, a statement shall
be submitted setting forth what bond, credit, escrow or other assurance the
applicant proposes in order to ensure that the difference between that which
would otherwise be required and that which the applicant proposes to provide in
the instant stage or unit is ultimately provided; and
            (5)   Placement of all temporary structures utilized during
construction, i.e., construction offices, siltation control devices, etc.
      3.   Review Procedure:
         a.   Consideration: An application, together with a complete
preliminary development plan, shall be considered at the first regularly
scheduled public hearing, and shall follow the procedure(s) established for
amendment in section
16-9-7 of this chapter.
         b.   Natural Resources Report: An application must also be made to the
Ogle County soil and water conservation district for a natural resources report
and a land evaluation review for any land to be rezoned from an agricultural
use to a nonagricultural use. These applications shall be filed with the soil
and water conservation district prior to making application to the zoning
department. All data generated by the natural resources report and the land
evaluation review will become part of the public record, and selected portions
will be forwarded to the zoning board of appeals and the county board.
         c.   Staff Review: The zoning administrator shall coordinate a review
of the application by appropriate county departments. A written report
documenting the review and staff recommendations shall be prepared by the
zoning administrator and submitted to the zoning board of appeals at the
meeting at which the application is first considered.
         d.   Report; Findings: After consideration of the application and
staff report, the zoning board of appeals shall make a report to the county
board regarding the impact of such proposed building or use upon the character
of the neighborhood, traffic conditions, public utility facilities, and other
matters pertaining to the general public health, safety and welfare of Ogle
County. The findings and recommendation of the zoning board of appeals shall be
transmitted to the planning, assessment and zoning committee. The zoning board
of appeals may recommend disapproval, or approval with amendments, conditions
or restrictions with respect to the preliminary development plan.
         e.   Recommendation: The planning, assessment and zoning committee may
recommend to the county board disapproval, or approval with amendments,
conditions or restrictions with respect to the preliminary development plan.
         f.   Approve; Approve With Conditions; Disapprove: The county board
shall approve, approve with conditions or disapprove the preliminary
development plan within ninety (90) days after it receives the findings and
recommendations of the zoning board of appeals.
         g.   Adoption: If the preliminary development plan is approved by the
board, it shall adopt a resolution approving said preliminary development plan
with conditions as specified therein and authorizing the preparation of the
final development plan.
Simultaneously, with approval of the preliminary development plan, the board
shall adopt an ordinance rezoning the site. Such ordinance shall become
effective upon approval of the final development plan.
      4.   Final Development Plan: Within nine (9) months following approval of
the preliminary development plan, but at least thirty (30) days before the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the planning, assessment and zoning committee,
the petitioner shall submit a final development plan to the planning,
assessment and zoning committee for its review and consideration to determine
if said final development plan is in conformance with the approved preliminary
development plan and with the imposed conditions of approval. The final
development plan shall reflect the entire planned development if it is to be
completed in one phase. In the event that any proposed final development plan
is submitted more than nine (9) months after approval of the preliminary
development plan, the matter shall be referred to the board for reconsideration
of the preliminary development plan approval.
   The final development plan, in addition to the matters shown on the
preliminary development plan, shall include the following:
         a.   The landscape plan with the specific location of all plant
material, specifying size, species and location (both as to the buffer area
around the perimeter as well as that in the parking lot);
         b.   Nature of use, including special uses permitted;
         c.   All structures, present and future, specifying location, size,
and architectural elevation, none of which may deviate substantially from the
approved preliminary development plan;
         d.   Sidewalks;
         e.   Parking spaces, including underground parking and traffic aisles;
         f.   Ingress and egress facilities;
         g.   Parking facilities for visitors;
         h.   Plan for the provision of water and sanitary and storm water
drainage facilities;
         i.   All easements and dedications;
         j.   Any signs, location and size;
         k.   Details of lighting of parking lots and outside of buildings,
including location, type and intensity;
         l.   All other information which the board may designate.
      5.   Improvement Plans:
         a.   Intent: The improvement plan stage is for the purpose of
accurately showing how the improvements will be constructed in order to conform
to the layout and design objectives of the preliminary development plan. As
such, the improvement plan process is an extension of the preliminary
development plan process.
   Where conditions so warrant, the county engineer may require that portions
of improvement plans be submitted during the preliminary development plan
review process in order to determine the land's suitability for the preliminary
development plan design. Any required off site improvements and engineering
studies shall be provided upon request. Where the development is to be
constructed in phases, and where soil and/or topographical conditions so
warrant, the county engineer may require that improvement plans for the entire
preliminary development plan area be submitted prior to the construction of
improvements.
         b.   Filing: Prior to the submittal of the final development plan, the
applicant shall submit to the county engineer six (6) complete sets of plans
and specifications for the construction.
         c.   Prepared By Engineer: The plans, which detail the construction
and types of materials to be used in conjunction with the development of the
site, shall be prepared and sealed by a registered professional engineer. Any
alterations of the common land or improvement within the common land will
require the submission of detailed improvement plans and will be considered a
requirement improvement.
         d.   Information Required: Improvement plans shall be prepared on an
exhibit of twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") and shall
contain the following information:
            (1)   Title page, which shall include key map showing the
relationship of the site to the surrounding area. In addition, the name,
address, and telephone number of the developer and engineering firm, as well as
a registered professional engineer's seal, should be indicated.
            (2)   North arrow and graphic scale shall be indicated on each plan
sheet.
            (3)   One or more bench marks, in or near the development, to which
the development is referenced. The identity and elevation shall be based on
USGS datum.
            (4)   List of the standards and specifications followed, citing
volume, section, page, or other references.
            (5)   Typical cross sections of any proposed roads.
            (6)   Grading and paving details conforming to Ogle County
specifications and requirements.
            (7)   Summary of quantities of all items necessary to construct all
streets (roads) shown on the plan.
            (8)   Details of streets including location and width of all
proposed public or private rights of way and private roadway easements,
existing and proposed drainage channels, scales, storm sewers, including
adequate natural discharge points, detention facilities, silt control measures
and, where applicable, sanitary sewer and water distribution systems.
            (9)   Plans and profiles of streets and sewers, scale not less than
one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50') horizontal and one inch equals five feet
(1" = 5') vertical.
            (10)   Topographical and profile studies must have on their face
the signed statement of a registered professional engineer, and the owner of
the land or his duly authorized attorney, to the effect that to the best of
their knowledge and belief the drainage of surface waters will not be changed
by the construction of the proposed planned development, or, that if such
surface water drainage will be changed, reasonable provision will be made for
collection and diversion of such surface waters into public areas, or drains
which the developer has the right to use, and that such surface waters will be
planned for in accordance with generally accepted engineering practices so as
to reduce the likelihood of damage to the adjacent property because of the
construction of the planned development.
         e.   Approval: Approval of the improvement plans by the respective
agencies described above shall be valid for a period of two (2) years from the
date of approval, or for such longer period as the county engineer may
determine to be advisable if after review by the county engineer such longer
period is necessary to facilitate adequate and coordinated provisions for
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, playgrounds, or other public
requirements. If the improvements shall not have been completed within the two
(2) year period or such longer period as the county engineer may permit, a
resubmission of the improvement plans to the appropriate agencies may be
required by the county engineer.
      6.   Improvement To Install Or Guarantee:
         a.   Guarantee For Completion Of Improvements: In lieu of constructing
the improvements prior to approval of the county engineer, a construction
guarantee in the amount of one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the approved
engineer's estimate of the cost of the improvements is required. The cost for
each improvement shall be itemized in a list prepared, signed and sealed by the
design engineer on his letterhead stationery and approved by the county
engineer. Such guarantee is to:
            (1)   Assure the satisfactory installation of said improvements in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and according to good
engineering and construction practices;
            (2)   Assure the satisfactory completion of said improvements
within the prescribed time limit.
         b.   Guarantee Formats: Such guarantee shall be in one of the
following formats and the form, amount and conditions, subject to approval by
the county engineer:
            (1)   A certificate of deposit with or an escrow account at a
federally insured bank or savings and loan association;
            (2)   An undertaking by the developer guaranteeing completion of
the land improvements remaining to be completed, as secured by an irrevocable
letter of credit certifying that adequate funds are and will be available at a
sound and reputable banking or financial institution authorized to do business
in the state of Illinois. Such irrevocable letter of credit shall be in effect
for a period of two and one-half (21/2) years from the date of recording of the
final plat, shall run in favor of the county and shall indicate that there are
sufficient funds available for one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the
estimated cost of all the land improvements remaining to be completed, and that
such funds are held for such purposes only and for no other purposes. Such
undertaking and irrevocable letter of credit shall be in a form to allow the
county to procure the funds to complete the land improvements if construction
of said improvements is not completed in accordance with the provisions hereof,
and shall otherwise be in a form acceptable to the county;
            (3)   Other good and sufficient security as approved by the
appropriate legal authority of the county to guarantee the proper installation
of land improvements.
         c.   Reduction Of Construction Guarantee: A construction guarantee
shall be reduced only by authorization of the county engineer upon:
            (1)   Application for payout by the developer in amounts such that
funds remaining will always equal one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the
value of the uncompleted work, as determined by the county engineer. No more
than ninety percent (90%) of the construction guarantee shall be released prior
to the year after the satisfactory completion of the required improvements; or
            (2)   When it is determined that there has occurred unsatisfactory
installation of the required improvements. Where the required improvements have
not been installed in accordance with the approved improvement plans, the
county may then declare the construction guarantee to be in default and may
draw from the guarantee amount for use in matters related to ensuring the
satisfactory construction of said improvement, including attorney fees and
court costs encumbered in the enforcement of the provisions of this section.
         d.   Release Of Construction Guarantee: The county engineer shall not
release a construction guarantee prior to the satisfactory installation of all
required improvements, as determined:
            (1)   One year after the completion of all improvements required
for the approved final development plan;
            (2)   After the submission of the project engineer's certification
that the project installation has been observed in the field and completed in
substantial compliance with the plans and specifications and with all
applicable ordinances and laws;
            (3)   After the submission of one reproducible print and four (4)
copies of record drawings which shall be drawings prepared by the project
engineer who shall show improvements, and shall clearly designate any and all
changes from the approved plans and specifications;
            (4)   After the acceptance of the improvements.
         e.   Maintenance Of Improvements: The applicant shall be responsible
for the maintenance of all improvements until the release of the construction
guarantee. Where a development has been improved in phases, the applicant shall
be responsible for the proper functioning of drainage improvements for the
entire development site. The applicant shall be responsible for the timely
removal of snow and ice on roads and the mowing of right of way until the final
acceptance of the completed road improvements.
      7.   Review Procedure:
         a.   Time Frame: An application with a complete final development
plan, meeting all requirements of this section and in conformance with the
preliminary plan as determined by the zoning administrator, shall be considered
at the first regularly scheduled planning, assessment and zoning committee
meeting, but no sooner than thirty (30) days from the filing of the completed
application.
         b.   Staff Review: During the time between the filing of the complete
final development plan and the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
planning, assessment and zoning committee, the zoning administrator shall
review the final development plan for compliance with the approved preliminary
development plan and conditions contained in the ordinance rezoning the site
and shall report to the planning, assessment and zoning committee the findings
of his review. The zoning administrator may, at his discretion, retain outside
consulting services for the review of plans, all costs for said outside
services shall be borne by the developer.
         c.   Recommendation Of Planning And Zoning Committee: After
consideration of the application and staff report, the planning, assessment and
zoning committee shall recommend approval, or disapproval, of the final
development plan. The final development plan shall conform to the preliminary
development plan and applicable ordinances. If the final development plan does
not conform to the preliminary development plan, or if the conditions of the
preliminary development plan approval are not adequately met, the final
development plan shall not be approved.
         d.   Approval: Upon recommendation for approval of the final
development plan by the planning, assessment and zoning committee, the final
development plan shall be submitted to the zoning administrator for his
signature.
         e.   Recordation: Following approval of the final development plan, it
shall be recorded at the applicant's expense with the county recorder, and a
reproducible mylar of such recorded plan shall be furnished to the zoning
department.
   D.   Permitted Uses: The listing of permitted uses within each PD district
shall be as follows:
      1.   Planned development-residential: The following land uses and
developments are permitted in this district:
         a.   Permitted land uses and developments shall be established in the
conditions of the ordinance governing the particular planned development-
residential district; specific uses may include those uses designated as
permitted, accessory, or special uses in any of the R residential districts.
         b.   The following uses may be designated as permitted uses and
established as such in the ordinance governing the particular planned
development-residential district:
               Attached single-family dwellings.
               Duplexes.
               Mobile home parks.
               Multiple-family dwellings.
               Package sanitary treatment plants.
               Recreational facilities and/or open space.
      2.   Planned development-commercial: The following land uses and
developments are permitted in this district:
            Permitted land uses and developments shall be established in the
conditions of the ordinance governing the particular planned development-
commercial district; specific uses may only include those uses designated as
permitted, accessory, or special uses in the B-1 business district, or other
uses of a commercial nature.
      3.   Planned development-manufacturing: The following land uses and
developments are permitted in this district:
            Permitted land uses and developments shall be established in the
conditions of the ordinance governing the particular planned development-
manufacturing districts and those uses in the B-1 business district which are
specifically related to a particular activity or complex.
      4.   Mixed use development: Permitted land uses and developments:
            Permitted land uses and developments shall be established in the
conditions of the ordinance governing the particular development mixed use
district (MXD); specific uses may include uses designated as permitted,
accessory or special uses in any of the R residential, B-1 business, or M-
1 manufacturing districts. Each development mixed use district shall include a
minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the total gross floor area in residential
uses, twenty percent (20%) of the total gross floor area in office or
industrial uses. Gross floor area used for parking shall not be included in the
above calculations. Gross floor area of hotels may be used for up to fifty
percent (50%) of the required floor area for residential uses. Gross floor area
devoted to institutional, cultural, entertainment, or recreational uses may be
used, on a one to one basis, to reduce the required minimum floor area of any
of the three (3) main use categories up to a maximum twenty five percent (25%)
reduction. In addition to this approach, where residential development in a
proposed MXD is greater than sixty five percent (65%) of the total gross floor
area, the remainder of the development may consist of B-1 business uses or M-
1 manufacturing uses or both without limitation as to percentages of gross
floor area.
   E.   Area Regulations And Performance Standards:
      1.   Exceptions And Additional Requirements: The approval of the
preliminary development plan may provide for such exceptions from regulations
and such additional requirements as may be necessary or desirable to achieve
the objectives of the proposed planned development, provided such exceptions
are consistent with the standards and criteria contained in this section have
been specifically requested in the application for a planned development; and
further, that no modification of the above referenced regulations shall be
allowed when such proposed modification would result in:
         a.   Inadequate or unsafe access to the planned development;
         b.   Traffic volumes exceeding the anticipated capacity of the
proposed major street network in the vicinity;
         c.   An undue burden on public parks, recreation areas, schools, fire
and police protection and other public facilities which serve or are proposed
to serve the planned development;
         d.   A development which will be incompatible with the purposes of
this chapter;
         e.   Detrimental impact on surrounding area including, but not limited
to, visual pollution.
The burden of proof that the criteria above are not being violated shall rest
with the developer and not the zoning administrator or the zoning board of
appeals.
      2.   Overall Development Site Size: The minimum site size required for a
planned development-commercial, planned development- manufacturing, or planned
development mixed district shall be two and one-half (2.5) acres. The minimum
overall site size required for a planned development-residential district shall
be twenty (20) acres.
   F.   Period Of Validity: The period of validity of approval of a final
development plan is as follows:
      1.   No approval of a final development plan shall be valid for a period
longer than twelve (12) months from the date of approval unless within such
period a zoning certificate is obtained and construction is commenced.
      2.   The county board may grant extensions not exceeding six (6) months
each upon written request of the original applicant if the application
submitted is substantially the same as the initially approved application.
However, the board has the power in such cases to attach new conditions to
approval. At such time as the period of validity of an approved final
development plan lapses, the final development plan and all uses, terms, and
conditions thereof shall be considered null and void.
   No further development of the site shall be permitted except by application
in accordance with the procedural requirements of this section, whereby it
shall be considered an entirely new application.
      3.   Should a request for extension of an approved final development plan
contain substantial changes as determined by the board, the board shall require
the applicant to refile his application subject to the requirements of this
section as if it were an entirely new application.
   G.   Properties Zoned Planned Development District By Enactment Of This
Chapter And Respective Official County Zoning Map:
      1.   Properties Developed And/Or Subdivided By Recording Of Final Plat:
Land developments which have been authorized by building permit, final plat
approval or other legal means prior to the enactment date of this section, and
exist on properties which, by enactment of the official county zoning map, have
been zoned planned development district, are hereby created planned
developments and all approved characteristics of such developments, such as lot
sizes and configurations, setbacks, easements, bulk characteristics, roads,
utilities and other improvements, are made a part of the planned development
district zoning classification as herein defined, whether conforming or legal
nonconforming in character.
      2.   Properties Not Yet Approved For Development: Tracts of land which
have not, prior to the date of the enactment of this section, received county
approval for development, whether by building permit, recording or final plat
or other legal means, and by county board enactment of the official county
zoning map are zoned planned development district shall be subject to
paragraphs C, D and E of this section. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
DIVISION 6
SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
16-6-1: Purpose And Intent
16-6-2: Yard And Setback Exceptions
16-6-3: Maximum Lot Coverage
16-6-4: Access Regulations
16-6-5: Reserve (Flag) Lots
16-6-6: Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses
16-6-7: Temporary Uses
16-6-8: Number Of Buildings Permitted Per Lot
16-6-9: Two Uses On A Zoning Lot
16-6-10: Lot Area And Dimension
16-6-11: Division Of Zoning Lots
16-6-12: Existing Special Uses
16-6-13: Uses Not Specifically Permitted In District
16-6-14: Special Flood Hazard Areas
16-6-15: Sanitary Facilities
16-6-16: Home Occupations
16-6-17: Temporary Model Homes
16-6-18: Modular Dwellings
16-6-19: Airports And Surrounding Territory
16-6-20: Location Of New Livestock Management Facilities And New Livestock
Waste Handling Facilities
16-6-21: Mobile Homes, Recreational Vehicles And Mobile Offices
16-6-22: Screening
16-6-23: Affidavit Requirement For Dwellings To Be Constructed Within One
Thousand Feet Of An Active Quarry
16-6-24: Separation Between New Dwellings And An Active Livestock Management
Facility
16-6-25: Regulation Of Telecommunications Facilities
16-6-26: Open Storage Of Junk
16-6-27: Open Storage Of Unlicensed Motor Vehicles
16-6-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Unless otherwise stated, the regulations hereafter established shall apply
within all districts established by this chapter. These general regulations
supplement and qualify the district regulations appearing elsewhere in this
chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-2: YARD AND SETBACK EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: Where forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage on one
side of the street between two (2) intersecting streets in areas developed in a
"lot and block" configuration is improved with buildings that have observed a
front yard line with a variation in depth of not more than ten feet (10'), the
average of such front yard lines shall establish the minimum front yard depth
for the entire frontage; however, in no case shall a front yard of more than
that as stipulated for the applicable classification of road or street in the
district in which the property is located be required.
   Where a lawfully approved and recorded subdivision plat clearly and
graphically indicates a front yard setback that is less than presently
required, the setback clearly indicated on the plat shall determine the minimum
setback required.
   Where lots have a double frontage, a required front yard shall be provided
for on both streets, except that the buildable depth of such lot shall not be
reduced to less than forty feet (40'), in which latter event the zoning
administrator may waive this requirement as to the street which will least
affect surrounding property values.
   B.   Side Yard And Rear Yard: Where a lawfully approved and recorded
subdivision plat clearly and graphically indicates a side or rear yard area
requirement that is less than presently required, the yard area requirement
that is clearly and graphically indicated on the plat shall determine the
minimum yard area required; however, this provision shall not apply to written
subdivision covenants that may delineate less than presently allowed yard
areas. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   C.   Structural Projections: Every part of a required yard or court shall be
open from its lowest point to the sky unobstructed, except for the ordinary
projection of sills, cornices, chimneys, buttresses, ornamental features and
eaves; provided, however, that none of the above projections shall extend into
a minimum yard more than thirty inches (30"). For the purposes of this
provision, mechanical units are not considered to be structures. (Ord., 4-16-
2013)
   D.   Fire Escapes/Balconies: An open fire escape may project into a required
side yard not more than half the width of such yard, but not more than five
feet (5') from the building. Fire escapes, solid floored balconies and enclosed
outside stairways may project not more than four feet (4') into a required rear
yard.
   E.   Sight Distance Triangle: On a corner lot in any district, development
shall conform to the requirements of the sight distance triangle in which
nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner
as to materially impede vision between a height of two feet (2') and eight feet
(8') above the grades at the back of the curb of the intersecting streets,
within the triangular area formed by the right of way lines and a line
connecting them at points forty feet (40') from their point of intersection or
at equivalent points on private streets, except that the site distance triangle
may be increased when deemed necessary for traffic safety by the county board.
   F.   Commercial/Manufacturing Rear Yards: No rear yards shall be required in
B-1, B-2, B-3 and I-1 districts nor any lot used for business or industrial
purposes, the rear line of which adjoins a railway right of way or which has a
rear railway track connection.
   G.   Through Lots: A through lot having one end abutting a limited access
highway, with no access permitted to that lot from said highway, shall be
deemed to front upon the street which gives access to that lot. (Ord., 9-17-
1996)
16-6-3: MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE:
In computing the amount of lot coverage, the amount of coverage shall include
the total area of all principal and accessory buildings as measured along the
outside wall at ground level or above as viewed from above and includes all
projections other than open porches, fire escapes, canopies or the first three
feet (3') of a roof overhang. Roads, driveways, parking lots and swimming pools
shall not be included in maximum lot coverage requirements. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-4: ACCESS REGULATIONS:
   A.   Access To Business And Industrial Districts: No land which is located
in a residential district shall be used for a major access route to any land
which is located in any business or industrial district; provided, however,
that this section shall not prohibit pedestrian walks and driveway connections
between residential districts and neighborhood shops when incorporated as a
part of a mixed use development district.
   B.   Street Access: All lots shall directly abut a street other than an
alley unless a permanent easement of access to a public street was of record
prior to the adoption of this chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-5: RESERVE (FLAG) LOTS:
Reserve (flag) lots may be created subject to the following standards:
   A.   No more than two (2) reserve (flag) lots may be created to facilitate
creation of two (2) but not more than three (3) lots/parcels out of a parcel
that has sufficient area but insufficient width to be divided.
   B.   A reserve (flag) lot(s) may be used to eliminate access to collector or
arterial roads, or when the buildable area of a parcel is restricted due to the
presence of a natural resource or irregular property shape.
   C.   The access strip of a reserve (flag) lot shall directly access a
publicly dedicated street right of way.
   D.   The access strip of a reserve (flag) lot shall be not less than twenty
feet (20') in width at its narrowest point.
   E.   The minimum street/road setback on a reserve (flag) lot shall be
established at a distance equal to the required street/road setback from the
property line that is most parallel to the street/road lot line (road right of
way line). The lot width at this minimum required setback shall be not less
than otherwise required by this chapter.
   F.   The area within the access strip of a reserve (flag) lot shall not be
counted as lot area for the purpose of meeting the minimum lot area
requirements of this chapter.
   G.   If required by the highway authority having jurisdiction over the road
on which the reserve (flag) lot(s) will take access, the access strip of the
lot, or portion thereof, shall contain an access easement to allow the
adjoining lot to share access to the road. In no case shall the access strip of
a reserve (flag) lot serve as any access easement for more than three (3)
dwelling units. (Ord., 5-20-2003)
16-6-6: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Principal Building Must Be Completed: No accessory building or
structure shall be constructed and/or occupied prior to the time of completion
of the construction of the principal building to which it is accessory.
   B.   Garages And Sheds: No garage or shed, unless it is structurally a part
of the principal building, shall be erected or altered, nor moved to a location
within ten feet (10') of the nearest wall of the principal building. (Ord., 9-
17-1996)
   C.   Encroachment: No accessory building shall encroach upon the side yard
of a corner lot which is adjacent to a road or street, nor upon that side yard
of a reversed corner lot which is adjacent to a road or street, nor upon the
rear yard of a through (double frontage) lot. (Ord., 4-16-2013)
   D.   Accessory Building Size Limitations:
      1.   Size Based On Parcel Size: No accessory building shall have more
than one story. The total cumulative area of all accessory buildings, the
maximum sidewall height, and the maximum height (see section
16-2-2 of this chapter for definition of "building, height of") of an accessory
building is based on the size of the parcel as indicated in the tables below,
except as provided for in paragraph D4 of this section. When calculating the
cumulative area of all accessory buildings or total building height, fractions
of 0.5 or less may be disregarded and fractions in excess of 0.5 shall be
rounded to the next whole number.
 
Lot Size (Acres)                    Maximum Building Area1 (Square Feet)
0 - 3 acres                         3% of parcel size (sq. ft.)
                                    3,920 sq. ft. for first 3 acres and 1.5%
More than 3 acres, but less than 10 per acre (653 sq. ft.) for each
acres                               additional acre above 3 acres, provided
                                    no individual structure exceeds 6,000
                                    sq. ft.
10 or more acres, but less than 20  No specified limitation, provided no
acres                               individual structure exceeds 6,000 sq.
                                    ft.
20 or more acres                    No specified limitation
 
Note:
   1.    Maximum building area is the cumulative area of all detached accessory
buildings on a zoning lot. On parcels of 10 acres in area or larger, buildings
used exclusively for agricultural purposes shall not be counted in calculating
the maximum building area.
 
Lot Size (Acres)              Maximum Building Sidewall Maximum Building Height
                              Height
0 - 0.49                      10 feet                   16 feet
0.5 - 1.5                     12 feet                   18 feet
More than 1.5 and less than 5 14 feet                   18 feet
5 or more                     16 feet                   20 feet
 
(Ord., 12-22-2008)
      2.   Exceptions:
         a.   The zoning board of appeals may authorize a larger maximum
building area and/or sidewall height and/or building height by variation in
accordance with section
16-9-6 of this chapter if it can be demonstrated that the area of all accessory
buildings will be compatible with the neighborhood in design, location and
size; and, there is proportionality between the size of the principal building,
parcel, street frontage, and the size of the accessory structure(s).
         b.   Provided no individual structure exceeds six thousand (6,000)
square feet in area, the provisions of this paragraph D regarding maximum
accessory building area only (not including maximum building sidewall height
and maximum building height requirements) shall not be applicable to parcels
having all of the following characteristics:
            (1)   Is less than ten (10) acres in area; and
            (2)   Is adjacent to or immediately across any street, alley, or
public right of way from not more than one parcel that is less than ten (10)
acres in area that contains a dwelling; or, is adjacent to or immediately
across any street, alley, or public right of way from not more than one parcel
less than ten (10) acres that does not contain a dwelling but is eligible, as
zoned or without a special use permit, to have a dwelling constructed upon it;
and
            (3)   Is not part of a platted subdivision containing three (3) or
more lots. (Ord., 4-16-2013)
      3.   Application To Existing Structures: The maximum size limitations
shall not apply in respect to the continued use of an existing detached
accessory building(s), nor prevent the restoration of such building(s) damaged
or destroyed by fire, explosion, act of God, or public enemy provided the
following conditions are met:
         a.   The original building(s) was/were in compliance with the
regulations existing at the time the original building(s) was/were built;
         b.   A variance was granted which allowed for the deviation from the
dimensional requirements; and
         c.   The building(s) shall comply with the applicable yard
requirements at the time of reconstruction unless a variance has been granted
or the reconstruction conforms to the provisions of division 4, "Nonconforming
Buildings, Structures And Uses", of this chapter.
      4.   Commercial And Industrial Districts: Accessory buildings in
commercial and industrial districts shall not exceed the maximum height
permitted for a principal building in the applicable zoning district unless
otherwise authorized. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   E.   Attached Accessory Buildings: In all districts, except as otherwise
provided, attached accessory uses and buildings shall be subject to, and must
conform to, all regulations applicable to the principal building. (Ord., 12-22-
2008)
   F.   Flagpoles: The maximum height of a flagpole shall not exceed the
maximum height allowed for any permitted structure in the zoning district in
which it is erected.
   G.   Private Swimming Pools: Private swimming pools shall be a permitted
residential accessory use, provided it conforms with the regulations of this
chapter and other applicable ordinances of Ogle County. Any swimming pool with
a design capacity of more than five thousand (5,000) gallons shall obtain a
zoning certificate and shall be provided with a "barrier" (meaning a fence, a
wall, a building wall or a combination thereof which completely surrounds the
swimming pool and obstructs access to the swimming pool) which complies with
the following:
      1.   The top of the barrier shall be at least forty eight inches (48")
above grade measured on the side of the barrier which faces away from the
swimming pool. The maximum vertical clearance between grade and the bottom of
the barrier shall be four inches (4") measured on the side of the barrier which
faces away from the swimming pool. Where the top of the pool structure is above
grade, such as an aboveground pool, the barrier may be at ground level, such as
the pool structure, or mounted on top of the pool structure. Where the barrier
is mounted on top of the pool structure, the maximum vertical clearance between
the top of the pool structure and the bottom of the barrier shall be four
inches (4").
      2.   Openings in the barrier shall not allow passage of a four inch (4")
diameter sphere.
      3.   Solid barriers, which do not have openings, such as a masonry or
stone wall, shall not contain indentations or protrusions except for normal
construction tolerances and tooled masonry joints.
      4.   Where the barrier is composed of horizontal and vertical members and
the distance between the tops of the horizontal members is less than forty five
inches (45"), the horizontal members should be located on the swimming pool
side of the fence. Spacing between vertical members should not exceed one and
three- fourths inches (13/4") in width. Where there are decorative cutouts,
spacing within the cutouts should not exceed one and three-fourths inches (13/
4") in width.
      5.   Where the barrier is composed of horizontal and vertical members and
the distance between the tops of the horizontal members is forty five inches
(45") or more, spacing between vertical members shall not exceed four inches
(4"). Where there are decorative cutouts, spacing within the cutouts shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches (13/4") in width.
      6.   Maximum mesh size for chainlink fences shall not exceed one and
three-fourths inches (13/4") square unless the fence is provided with slats
fastened at the top or the bottom which reduce the openings to no more than one
and three-fourths inches (13/4").
      7.   Where the barrier is composed of diagonal members, such as a lattice
fence, the maximum opening formed by the diagonal members shall be no more than
one and three-fourths inches (13/4").
      8.   Access gates to the pool shall comply with paragraphs G1 through G7
of this section, and shall be equipped to accommodate a locking device.
Pedestrian access gates shall open outward, away from the pool, and shall be
self-closing and have a self- latching device. Gates other than pedestrian
access gates shall have a self-latching device. Where the release mechanism of
the self-latching device is located less than fifty four inches (54") from the
bottom of the gate: a) the release mechanism shall be located on the pool side
of the gate at least three inches (3") below the top of the gate and b) the
gate and barrier shall have no opening greater than one-half inch (1/2") within
eighteen inches (18") of the release mechanism.
      9.   Where an aboveground pool structure is used as a barrier or where
the barrier is mounted on top of the pool structure, and the means of access is
a ladder or steps, then: a) the ladder to the pool or steps shall be capable of
being secured, locked or removed to prevent access, or b) the ladder or steps
shall be surrounded by a barrier which meets paragraphs G1 through G8 of this
section. When the ladder or steps are secured, locked, or removed, any opening
created shall not allow the passage of a four inch (4") diameter sphere. (Ord.,
9-17-1996)
   Barriers shall be located so as to prohibit permanent structures, equipment
or similar objects from being used to climb the barriers. (Ord., 5-18-2010)
   H.   Mobile Homes, Recreational Vehicles And Trailers: No mobile home,
recreational vehicle, or trailer shall be used as an accessory storage building
or for other than its intended purpose on any land within the AG-1 agricultural
district where the principal use is residential, or any residential district
(R-1, R-2, R-3 or R-4). (Ord., 5-16-2006)
   I.   Permitted Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses: The following
accessory buildings, structures and uses may be permitted in accordance with
the following, but in no case shall any accessory building or structure be
located in any required easement, or in a location that would violate the Ogle
County health code with respect to a well and/or septic system component:
      1.   Garages, Sheds, Storage Buildings, Carports And Other Similar
Buildings/Structures: A garage, shed, storage building, carport or other
similar building/structure may not be located within the required building
setback from any road or street. A garage, shed, storage building, carport or
other similar building/structure that is greater than two hundred sixteen (216)
square feet in area shall be located not less than fifteen feet (15') from a
side or rear lot line, or not less than the required side or rear yard area for
the principal building, whichever is less. A garage, shed, storage building,
carport or other similar building/structure that is two hundred sixteen (216)
square feet in area or less shall be located not less than five feet (5') from
a side or rear lot line.
      2.   Private Swimming Pools: Private swimming pools may not be located
within the required building setback from any road or street. Private swimming
pools shall be located not less than twenty five feet (25') from a side lot
line, or not less than the required side yard of the principal building,
whichever is less. Private swimming pools shall be located not less than
fifteen feet (15') from a rear lot line. Any structure appurtenant or accessory
to a swimming pool, such as a deck or patio, whether structurally attached or
not, shall be considered part of the swimming pool for the purposes of the
above provisions.
      3.   Decks And Patios: Decks/patios may not be located within the
required building setback from any road or street. Decks/patios shall be
located not less than twenty five feet (25') from a side lot line, or not less
than the required side yard of the principal building, whichever is less.
Decks/patios shall be located not less than fifteen feet (15') from a rear lot
line.
      4.   Open Entrances And Entrance Porches: Open, unenclosed entrances or
entrance porches may project not more than eight feet (8') into the required
building setback from any road or street, but may not be located closer than
three feet (3') to a property line or road right of way line. Open, unenclosed
entrances or entrance porches shall be located not less than twenty five feet
(25') from a side lot line, or not less than the required side yard of the
principal building, whichever is less.
      5.   Entrance Stairs, Steps And Stoops: Open, unenclosed entrance stairs,
steps and stoops when necessary for access may project into any required
setback or yard area provided: a) the platform/landing is not larger than six
feet (6') in width and four feet (4') in depth; b) the platform/landing is not
less than three feet (3') to any property line or road right of way line; and
c) no part of the steps extend into any adjacent road right of way or closer
than three feet (3') to any side or rear property line.
      6.   Accessibility Ramps And Structures: Ramps and related landing(s)
when necessary to allow an "environmentally limited person" (a person with a
disability or condition who is restricted in the use of the built environment)
to access an existing residential structure at which said environmentally
limited person resides may project into any required setback or yard area
provided: a) the ramp and related landing(s) is/are not larger than eight feet
(8') in depth; and b) the ramp and related landing(s) is/are not less than
three feet (3') to any property line or road right of way line.
      7.   Towers: Towers, such as private wind energy conversion system
towers, private communications towers and similar structures, shall be located
not less than 1.1 times the tower height from any public road right of way
line, overhead utility transmission lines, communication towers, and adjacent
property lines. When supported with guywires, said guywires shall not be
located less than five feet (5') from any public road right of way line,
overhead utility transmission lines, communication towers, and adjacent
property lines.
      8.   Awnings Or Canopies For Commercial Buildings: Awnings or canopies
for commercial buildings shall be allowed within the required building setback
(front yard), provided that the awning or canopy is not greater than ten feet
(10') in depth (projecting from the building), and no part of any awning or
canopy shall project into any public road right of way.
      9.   Gazebos And Other Similar Structures: Gazebos and other similar
structures may not be located within the required building setback from any
road or street. A gazebo or other similar structure that is greater than two
hundred sixteen (216) square feet in area shall be located not less than
fifteen feet (15') from a side or rear lot line, or not less than the required
side or rear yard area for the principal building, whichever is less. A gazebo
or other similar structure that is two hundred sixteen (216) square feet in
area or less shall be located not less than five feet (5') from a side or rear
lot line. (Ord., 4-16-2013)
16-6-7: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Temporary Use Permit: The zoning administrator is authorized to issue a
permit for a temporary use provided it meets the requirements of this section.
The permit shall be issued for a specified period of time and may contain
health, safety and traffic restrictions, and may require such assurances or
guarantees of compliance with conditions as is reasonable and appropriate under
the circumstances.
   B.   Temporary Uses Permitted:
      Amusement activities. The zoning administrator is authorized to issue a
permit for the operation or conducting of an amusement activity on a temporary
basis within any zoning district. The zoning administrator may request a report
be submitted with respect to any public health aspect of the proposal and with
respect to any traffic or public safety aspect of the proposal if appropriate.
For the purpose of this paragraph, "amusement activity" includes a circus,
carnival, fair, turkey shoot, art display, trade or animal show, concert,
dance, rally, parade, athletic competition, haunted house/barn, corn maze,
pumpkin patch and any similar activity not involving the erection of any
permanent structure or facility. The permit shall be issued for a specific
period of time not exceeding ten (10) days with the exception of a haunted
house/barn and/or corn maze, pumpkin patch or similar seasonal activity, which
shall be issued for a specific period of time not exceeding sixty (60) days.
The permit shall contain such conditions as are necessary for protection of
public health, safety and traffic, and the zoning administrator may require
such assurance or guarantee of compliance with conditions as is reasonable and
appropriate under the circumstances.
   This permit is in addition to any zoning certificate, air pollution device,
construction or operating permit, or other permit or license required by law
for any proposed activity or facility. No more than two (2) temporary amusement
activity permits shall be issued in any calendar year with regard to any
particular property; provided, however, that this limitation with respect to
the number of temporary amusement activity permits shall not apply to public
property, nor to property not held for private or corporate profit and used
exclusively for religious worship, for schools and colleges, for purposes
purely charitable, or for agricultural and horticultural societies. These
provisions are applicable to the period of time and the number of temporary
permits for turkey shoots that can be held and shall not apply to turkey shoots
conducted on all Saturdays and Sundays falling within the months of October,
November and December of each year.
      Christmas tree sales. Christmas tree sales for a period not to exceed
sixty (60) days. Display of Christmas trees need not comply with the applicable
yard setback requirements provided that no display will encroach within the
required setback for any district by more than fifty percent (50%) and no
display or equipment shall be located within the forty foot (40') sight
distance triangle of a road or street intersection as defined in this chapter.
      Contractor's offices. Temporary buildings or trailers may be used as
construction offices, field offices or for storage of materials to be used in
connection with the development of said tract, provided that said temporary
structures are removed from said tract within thirty (30) days after completion
of the project development. Temporary buildings or trailers must also be
removed from said tract within thirty (30) days after voluntary suspension of
work on the project or development or after revocation of building permits, or
on order by the zoning administrator upon a finding by him that said temporary
structure is deemed hazardous to the public health and welfare.
      Real estate offices. Temporary real estate offices of sales offices may
be established in a display dwelling unit. Mobile homes shall not be utilized
for real estate offices. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-8: NUMBER OF BUILDINGS PERMITTED PER LOT:
Every single-family dwelling hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a separate zoning lot. At the discretion of the zoning
administrator, a survey may be required to prove dimensions and area of said
zoning lot before a zoning certificate may be issued. In no case shall there be
more than one single-family dwelling on one zoning lot except for accessory
buildings or uses, as defined herein. A residential lot must have frontage on a
road or street. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-9: TWO USES ON A ZONING LOT:
Where two (2) or more permitted or special uses, each requiring a minimum lot
area, are provided on the same lot, the required lot area for such uses shall
be the sum of the area required for each individual use. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-10: LOT AREA AND DIMENSION:
   A.   Contiguous Parcels: When two (2) or more parcels of land, each of which
lacks adequate area and dimension to qualify for a permitted use under the
requirements of the zoning district in which they are located, are held in one
ownership, they shall be used as one zoning lot for such use.
   B.   Lots Or Parcels Of Land Of Record: Any single lot or parcel of land,
held in one ownership, which was of record at the time of adoption hereof that
does not meet the requirements for minimum lot width and area may be utilized
for a permitted use, provided that interior side yards or usable open spaces
are not less than seventy five percent (75%) of the minimum required dimensions
of areas. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-11: DIVISION OF ZONING LOTS:
   A.   Any tract defined as a zoning lot by this chapter, unless otherwise
exempted herein, shall not hereafter be divided unless all resulting parcels
from such division conform with all applicable yard, lot size and other bulk
regulations of the zoning district in which the tract is located and,
therefore, by definition, constitute individual zoning lots themselves. Where
such division occurs on or after the effective date hereof, the following shall
apply:
      1.   Person or persons responsible for such action shall be subject to
division 9 of this chapter;
      2.   Any nonconforming lot will be considered such as the result of
action by the property owner or other controlling interests and development
thereon will be restricted in accordance with this chapter; and
      3.   No permit for the construction of a new residential (including farm
dwelling), commercial, manufacturing or other nonagricultural building shall be
issued for any lot, whether conforming or nonconforming as described above,
created as a result of such division.
   B.   The zoning administrator shall have recorded with the Ogle County
recorder, at such time when a zoning certificate for the construction of a farm
or nonfarm dwelling is issued for an AG-1 agricultural district or IA
intermediate agricultural district zoning lot, a document indicating that the
geographic boundaries of such zoning lot have been defined by said zoning
certificate and that any division of such zoning lot shall conform with this
chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-12: EXISTING SPECIAL USES:
Where a use is classified as a "special use" and exists at the date of the
adoption hereof, it shall be considered a lawful special use, without further
action of the zoning administrator, the planning, assessment and zoning
committee, or the Ogle County board. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-13: USES NOT SPECIFICALLY PERMITTED IN DISTRICT:
When a use is not specifically listed in the sections devoted to "permitted
uses", it shall be assumed that such uses are hereby expressly prohibited
unless by a written recommendation of the zoning administrator and approved by
the planning, assessment and zoning committee, it is determined that said uses
is similar to and not more objectionable than uses listed. Such use(s) may then
be permitted. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-14: SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
Any activity that is located in a special flood hazard area shall comply with
the Ogle County, Illinois, "flood damage prevention ordinance" (division 10 of
this chapter). (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-15: SANITARY FACILITIES:
Private sewage disposal systems shall be constructed and located as set forth
in the Ogle County private sewage disposal code (chapter 10, division 4 of this
code). (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-16: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
The use of a principal residential building for financial gain or support shall
not be conducted unless a home occupation permit has been obtained from the
zoning administrator. Certain limited home occupations can be useful to both
the general community and the resident proprietor. In attempting to cater to
both, reasonable restrictions on business activities conducted in principal
residential buildings located in AG-1, IA, R-1, R-2 and R-3 districts are
hereby established to ensure that the business remains incidental to the
principal residential use.
   A.   Permitted Home Occupations: The following examples of uses are
permitted; any use(s) not listed shall require approval of the zoning
administrator:
      Accounting.
      Antique shop.
      Architectural service.
      Art restoration.
      Auctioneer (office).
      Cement lawn ornaments (resale).
      Ceramics (limit 1 kiln up to 6 cubic feet).
      Childcare home.
      Chimney sweep.
      Consulting service.
      Contracting - electrical, carpenter, plumbing, heating, painting (limit 1
vehicle).
      Data processing.
      Drafting and graphic services.
      Dressmaking, sewing, tailoring, contract sewing (1 machine).
      Electronic assembly (small scale only - no trucks larger than 3/4 ton).
      Engineering service.
      Financial planning, investment service.
      Flower arrangement.
      Gardening, landscaping (office) - (equipment limited to 25 hp).
      Home crafts.
      House cleaning service (limit 1 vehicle).
      Insurance office.
      Interior design (office).
      Jewelry making or rock polishing.
      Locksmith (limit 1 vehicle).
      Pet grooming (dogs and/or cats) - (limit 2 animals per day).
      Real estate office.
      Sales representative office.
      Security service, security systems, auto security systems (limit 1
vehicle).
      Swimming pool cleaning (limit 1 vehicle).
      Tax preparation.
      Telephone answering, switchboard, call forwarding.
      Tutoring, music lessons, religious instruction (limit 4 people or less
per day).
      Typing, word processing service.
      Writing, computer programming.
   B.   Prohibited Uses: The following examples of uses, and any other uses as
determined by the zoning administrator, are prohibited as home occupational
uses:
      Ambulance service.
      Appliance repair.
      Automobile and machinery repair, parts sales, upholstery or detailing
service, washing service including business working at customer's home.
      Boarding house, bed and breakfast establishments, timeshare condominium.
      Health salons, gyms, dance studios, aerobic exercise studios, massage
parlors.
      Limousine service.
      Medical, dental, veterinary office.
      Palm reading, fortune telling.
   C.   Application For Home Occupation Permit: An application for a home
occupation permit shall be filed with the zoning administrator in such form and
in such manner as may be required.
   D.   Performance Requirements For A Home Occupation Permit: All applicants
shall certify by affidavit that all of the following performance requirements
will be met in conducting the home occupation or profession:
      1.   No person other than a member of the immediate family residing on
the premises shall be employed in connection with the occupation or profession.
      2.   A sign may be attached to the dwelling with a maximum area of one
square foot.
      3.   There shall be no display that would indicate from the exterior that
the building is being utilized in whole or in part for any purpose other than
that of the dwelling except a sign as allowed above.
      4.   No material or equipment shall be used that may constitute a hazard,
create a nuisance, or interfere with the reception of broadcast signals.
      5.   All material, equipment, merchandise or work in process shall be
wholly enclosed within the dwelling or accessory building.
      6.   The entrance to the space devoted to the home occupation shall be
from within the dwelling and the portion of the dwelling devoted to such
occupation shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the gross floor area of the
dwelling.
      7.   The occupation or profession shall not generate excess traffic or
create parking congestion.
      8.   Home occupations not meeting the above criteria shall not be
permitted except as otherwise provided for within a business or industrial
district, or as a special use herein.
   E.   Issuance Of Permit: When an application for a home occupation permit
has shown that all requirements of this section will be met, the zoning
administrator shall, within twenty (20) days' receipt of such application,
approve and authorize the issuance of a home occupation permit.
   F.   Enforcement:
      1.   The zoning administrator shall have the power to revoke any home
occupation permit for any violation of the above performance requirements, or
for any misrepresentation on the application.
      2.   Upon a decision to revoke a home occupation permit, the zoning
administrator shall transcribe forthwith a written notice of revocation and
thereafter forward it to the permit holder by registered mail to the address
listed on the application for said permit. Such notice shall include finding(s)
of fact and conclusion(s). (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-17: TEMPORARY MODEL HOMES:
Temporary model homes shall be used primarily to offer for sale or rental
dwelling units located within the same subdivision or planned development in
which the model home is located. The following regulations shall govern the
operation of a model home:
   A.   Upon request by the zoning administrator, the owners of the property
upon which the model home is located shall provide information relating to the
use of the model home, including, but not limited to, a record of sales or
rentals made from the model home.
   B.   Building materials may be stored within the model home, but not upon
the lot on which the model home is situated.
   C.   Sales offices, rental offices and construction offices may be contained
in a model home; provided, that the appearance of the model home is not
substantially different from that of the other dwelling units in the
subdivision or planned development.
   D.   A temporary off street parking lot may be permitted if recommended by
the planning, assessment and zoning committee and approved by the county board.
   E.   Exterior floodlights may be used to illuminate the model home;
provided, that lights are sufficiently screened so that private dwelling units
and traffic are not adversely affected by the floodlights. The exterior
floodlights shall be turned off not later than ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. (Ord.,
9-17-1996)
16-6-18: MODULAR DWELLINGS:
It is the intent of this chapter to allow modular dwellings meeting the
definition of "dwelling, single-family" as defined herein. There shall be a
similarity in exterior appearance between such residentially designed modular
dwellings and dwellings which have been constructed under these and other
lawful regulations on adjacent lots in the same zoning district.
Modular dwellings shall meet the following required conditions:
   A.   Modular dwellings shall not include a "mobile home" as defined herein.
   B.   A modular home shall conform to the requirements of the Illinois
department of public health and shall be on the list of Illinois approved
manufacturers of modular dwellings.
   C.   Recent photographs or brochures showing the front, side and rear of the
modular dwelling shall be submitted with filing the application requesting the
issuance of a zoning certificate that demonstrate compliance with the following
appearance standards:
      1.   The roof of the modular dwelling shall be pitched at a ratio of not
less than three inches (3") of rise (vertical distance) in twelve inches (12")
of run (horizontal distance) or greater, and covered with durable material that
is residential in appearance, but not limited to, approved wood, asphalt
composition shingles, or wood shake shingles, but excluding corrugated
aluminum, corrugated fiberglass or metal roof.
      2.   Exterior siding shall be residential in appearance and cannot have a
high gloss finish including, but not limited to, clapboard, simulated clapboard
such as conventional vinyl or metal siding, wood shingles, brick veneer or
similar material but excluding smooth, ribbed or corrugated metal or plastic
panels.
      3.   The towing devices, hitches, axles and wheels shall be removed.
      4.   The modular dwelling shall be located on a permanent, frost free
perimeter foundation. "Permanent, frost free perimeter foundation" means a
closed perimeter formation consisting of materials such as concrete or concrete
block which extends into the ground below frost level.
      5.   At each door (entrance or exit) of the modular dwelling there shall
be provided a permanent stoop that is not less than thirty six inches by thirty
six inches (36" x 36").
      6.   The modular dwelling shall be oriented on a zoning lot so that its
long axis is parallel with the street. A perpendicular or diagonal placement
may be permitted if there is a building addition or substantial landscaping so
that the narrow dimension of the dwelling unit is not less than fifty percent
(50%) of the dwelling unit's long dimension.
      7.   The zoning lot shall be landscaped to ensure compatibility with
surrounding properties.
      8.   The home shall not be less than twenty four feet (24') in width.
   D.   All modular dwellings when located in the unincorporated area of Ogle
County in addition to the above shall also be in compliance with all applicable
codes and ordinances. (Ord., 12-22-2008)
16-6-19: AIRPORTS AND SURROUNDING TERRITORY:
Airports and surrounding territory are subject to the rules and regulations of
the state of Illinois department of aeronautics and to the following:
   A.   Height of buildings or structures in areas surrounding the boundaries
of airports having an established approach plan that has been approved by the
state of Illinois department of aeronautics shall be in accordance with the
requirements set forth in the approach plan.
   B.   Height of buildings or structures in areas ten thousand (10,000) linear
feet beyond the boundaries of airports that do not have an established approach
plan shall be governed by the following:
      1.   For an airport having the longest runway less than three thousand
nine hundred fifty (3,950) linear feet in length, structures located just
beyond the boundaries of the airport shall not be in excess of fifteen feet
(15') in height, and for every two hundred (200) linear feet of additional
distance from the airport boundaries, the height of building structures may be
increased by not more than ten feet (10').
      2.   For an airport having a runway of three thousand nine hundred fifty
(3,950) linear feet or more in length, buildings or structures just beyond the
boundaries of the airport shall not be in excess of fifteen feet (15') in
height; and for every two hundred (200) linear feet of additional distance from
the airport boundaries, the height of structures may be increased by not more
than five feet (5'); and where a runway has been designated as an instrument
runway, the height of structures may be increased by not more than four feet
(4') in every two hundred (200) linear feet of additional distance from airport
boundaries, for the first ten thousand (10,000) linear feet, and for the area
covered in the next forty thousand (40,000) linear feet, the height of
structures may be increased by not more than five feet (5') in every additional
two hundred (200) linear feet.
      3.   Buildings or structures exceeding the limiting heights shall be
considered obstructions to air navigation unless found not to be objectionable
after special aeronautical study. Such buildings or structures may be
specifically authorized as a variation after public hearing by the zoning board
as provided by law.
      4.   Any developments to be located in sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 in Scott
Township shall be in compliance with the Greater Rockford Airport FAR updated
part 150 noise compatibility study dated May 1994. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-20: LOCATION OF NEW LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT FACILITIES AND NEW LIVESTOCK
WASTE HANDLING FACILITIES:
New livestock management facilities and new livestock waste handling facilities
shall not be located in close proximity to populated areas so as to cause air
pollution. Adequate odor control methods and technology shall be practiced by
operators of new and existing livestock management and livestock waste handling
facilities so as not to cause air pollution (see title 35: environmental
protection, subtitle E: agriculture related pollution, chapter I: pollution
control board, and chapter II: environmental protection agency, state of
Illinois rules and regulations as amended). (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-21: MOBILE HOMES, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND MOBILE OFFICES:
   A.   Recreational vehicles, as defined herein, shall not be occupied for
dwelling purposes except in lawfully established commercial campgrounds; mobile
homes, as defined herein, shall not be occupied for dwelling purposes except in
lawfully established mobile home parks or mobile home subdivision. However, the
temporary use of a recreational vehicle or mobile home for dwelling purposes,
or a mobile office for temporary office use may be permitted when an
application for a permit has been approved by the planning, assessment and
zoning committee and signed by the zoning administrator, and one or more of the
following conditions have been met:
      1.   Construction: When the applicant desires to build a dwelling and
said dwelling will not be occupied within a two (2) year period. An extension,
if necessary for good cause demonstrated by the applicant, may be granted after
review by the planning, assessment and zoning committee.
      2.   Recreation: When the applicant desires to use a recreational vehicle
on private property strictly for recreational purposes and not for permanent
habitation, and the location of the recreational vehicle does not hinder the
use, degrade or affect the value and appearance of adjoining properties, and
adequate water supply and sewage disposal facilities are provided and approval
obtained from the Ogle County health department, said use of a recreational
vehicle may be permitted.
      3.   Mobile Office: When the applicant desires to use a "mobile office",
as defined herein, on private property strictly for commercial or industrial
office purposes and not for habitation, and the location of the mobile office
for more than sixty (60) days does not hinder the use, degrade or affect the
value or appearance of adjoining properties, and adequate water supply and
sewage disposal facilities are provided and approval obtained from the Ogle
County health department, said use of a mobile office may be permitted.
      4.   Residence Unfit For Habitation: In the event of a fire or natural
disaster which results in the partial or total demolition of a residence,
making it unfit for human habitation, the zoning administrator may, upon
application from the owner of such residence, issue a temporary emergency
shelter permit for the use of a mobile home or recreational vehicle for each
family during rehabilitation of the original residence or construction of a new
residence. The temporary emergency shelter permit shall be limited to a period
of six (6) months. Upon expiration of the six (6) month period, an application
may be presented to the planning, assessment and zoning committee when one or
more of the conditions in this paragraph A are met.
   B.   All applications for a permit shall be accompanied by an affidavit,
stating as follows:
      1.   Name(s) and address(es) of occupants.
      2.   Location of proposed use.
      3.   Description (make, model and year) of mobile home, recreational
vehicle or mobile office.
      4.   Reason for application.
      5.   Statement that a change in the usage, name or number of occupants,
or location will be reported to the zoning administrator immediately.
Failure to comply with any of the above or any additional conditions placed on
a permit by the planning, assessment and zoning committee shall be sufficient
for the planning, assessment and zoning committee to revoke the permit.
The mobile home, recreational vehicle or mobile office shall be removed by the
permit holder on or before the date of expiration of the permit, unless the
permit holder has received an extension as provided above. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-22: SCREENING:
Screening shall be designed, planted or constructed and maintained in
accordance with the following general guidelines:
   A.   Permanent screening during all seasons shall be required of business,
industrial and residential district uses in the following instances:
      1.   A screen shall be required for an industrial and/or agribusiness use
when it is adjoining a residence or business district.
      2.   A screen shall be required for a business use when it is adjoining a
residential district.
      3.   A screen shall be required for a residential use when constructed
adjacent to a business or industrial use after the effective date hereof.
   B.   No screening shall interfere with sight requirements for safe ingress
and egress.
   C.   One of the following screening types or a combination of the following
screening types shall be used:
      1.   A dense, compact screen of plantings to be maintained at the
dimensions specified within a five (5) year time span.
      2.   A solid fence (less than 50 percent view through the fence) to be
maintained at the dimensions specified.
      3.   A ground contoured earthen berm to be maintained at the dimensions
specified.
   D.   Vegetation and grassed earth berms shall be used whenever possible.
   E.   Earthen berms shall have a side slope not less than four feet (4')
horizontal distance for each one foot (1') of vertical distance.
   F.   Screening shall be six feet (6') in height excluding vegetation growth.
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-23: AFFIDAVIT REQUIREMENT FOR DWELLINGS TO BE CONSTRUCTED WITHIN ONE
THOUSAND FEET OF AN ACTIVE QUARRY:
All applicants for a zoning certificate to construct a dwelling to be located
within one thousand feet (1,000') of an active quarry as measured from the
nearest property line of the zoning lot or parcel on which quarrying can
lawfully take place on the date the zoning certificate for said dwelling is
applied for shall certify by affidavit (see section
16-9-14, "Appendix III; Mining Acknowledgment Affidavit", of this chapter) that
they are aware of the existing quarry operation and possible noise, dust,
odors, vibrations, traffic, etc., associated with a quarry operation, and that
if a residential use is established, such use has no additional rights granted
to it than are granted to said quarry operation. Said affidavit shall be
recorded with the property deed in the office of the Ogle County recorder, of
which proof of recordation shall be required by the zoning administrator prior
to issuance of a zoning certificate. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-24: SEPARATION BETWEEN NEW DWELLINGS AND AN ACTIVE LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT
FACILITY:
No nonfarm dwelling constructed after the effective date hereof shall be
located within one-fourth (1/4) mile (1,320 feet) of an active livestock
management facility as measured from the nearest pen or enclosure housing any
animals at any time within the year prior to the date the zoning certificate
for said dwelling is applied for. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-25: REGULATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
See section
16-9-15, "Appendix IV; Regulation Of Telecommunications Facilities", of this
chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-6-26: OPEN STORAGE OF JUNK:
"Junk", as herein defined, shall not be stored in an open area. However, this
provision shall exclude lawfully established junkyards and other uses engaged
in collecting and/or processing of scrap iron or other metals. (Ord., 9-17-
1996)
16-6-27: OPEN STORAGE OF UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES:
Not more than one unlicensed motor vehicle (a motor vehicle not currently
licensed with the Illinois secretary of state) shall be stored in an open area
within the AG-1 agricultural district or any residential district (R-1, R-2, R-
3 or R-4). The absence of license plates or license plates that have expired
shall be prima facie evidence that a motor vehicle is unlicensed. (Ord., 9-
2003; amd. Ord., 5-16-2006)
DIVISION 7
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
16-7-1: Purpose And Intent
16-7-2: Applicability
16-7-3: Site Plan Required
16-7-4: Design Requirements
16-7-5: Screening And Landscaping
16-7-6: Administrative Requirements
16-7-7: Schedule Of Required Parking And Loading Spaces
16-7-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this division is to alleviate or prevent the congestion of the
public streets, and to promote the safety and welfare of the public by
establishing minimum requirements for the off street parking and loading and
unloading of motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which property is
put. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-7-2: APPLICABILITY:
For every use, activity or structure permitted by this chapter and for all
buildings or structures erected in accordance therewith, there shall be
provided sufficient space for access and off street standing, parking,
circulation, unloading and loading of motor vehicles that may be expected to
transport its occupants, whether as patrons, residents, customers, employees,
guests or otherwise, to an establishment, activity or place of residence at any
time under normal conditions for any purpose. When a use is expanded, accessory
off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the
regulations herein for the area or capacity of such expansion, and including
that which would be required for the previously existing uses, structure or
activity. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-7-3: SITE PLAN REQUIRED:
Every zoning certificate application for a new, enlarged, or remodeled
building, structure, or use other than a single-family residence shall include
therewith a parking site and landscape plan. In addition, such parking site and
landscape plan requirements shall also apply to new, enlarged, or remodeled
parking facilities to service existing buildings, structures, or uses. Approval
of such a plan shall include, for review and approval by the zoning
administrator, any and all existing parking facilities currently serving said
buildings, structures and uses for conformity with these regulations as well.
   A.   Parking Plan Requirements: The plan shall also specifically include the
following:
      1.   Delineation of individual parking and loading spaces.
      2.   Circulation area necessary to serve spaces.
      3.   Delineation of fire lanes.
      4.   Access to streets and property to be served.
      5.   Driveway and traffic aisle width, location of all curbs and curbing
materials.
      6.   Dimensions, continuity and substance of required screening.
      7.   Grading, drainage, surfacing and subgrading details.
      8.   Delineation of obstacles to parking and circulation in finished
parking areas.
      9.   Specification as to signs and bumper guards.
      10.   Landscaping and screening details (see section
16-7-5 of this division for landscaping requirements for parking lots).
      11.   Lighting, including other pertinent details such as fixture cuts,
light spread characteristics, etc.
      12.   Dimensions indicating setback and parking lot design layout. (Ord.,
9-17-1996)
16-7-4: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Surface Material: Areas used for standing and maneuvering of vehicles
shall have concrete, asphaltic concrete or compacted aggregate (with adequate
dust treatment) surfaces, and maintained adequately for all weather use.
Agricultural and single-family residential uses are exempt from this provision.
   B.   Access To Parking Areas: All off street parking spaces, except for
single-family residential uses, that make it necessary to back out directly
onto a public road are prohibited. Also, no driveway or parking areas of an
industrial, commercial or multiple-family use that will lie adjacent to a one-
or two- family use or zoning district shall be located closer than ten feet
(10') to the common property line.
   C.   Access Near Street Corners: No entrance or exit for any off street
parking area with over four (4) parking spaces or any loading berth shall be
located within seventy five feet (75') of the intersection of any two (2) road
or street right of way lines.
   D.   Drainage: All off street parking areas shall be drained so as to
prevent drainage onto abutting properties or adjacent streets.
   E.   Lighting: Any lighting fixtures used to illuminate any off street
parking area shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from any
adjoining residential lot, institutional premises or adjacent streets.
   F.   Screening: Any off street parking area providing space for five (5) or
more vehicles shall be effectively screened on any side which adjoins or faces
a lot with residential zoning by an unpierced wall or screen, or compact
evergreen planting not less than four feet (4') in height. Plantings shall be
maintained in good condition and not encroach on adjoining property (see
section
16-7-5 of this division for additional landscaping requirements).
   G.   Setback: Except for single-family residential, all required parking
spaces may be located in a required front yard, side yard, or rear yard
provided that a five foot (5') setback be maintained between the parking space
(s) and any property line. However, in no instance shall a parking lot be
located in a required transition strip. (See section
16-7-5 of this division, landscaping and screening regulations.)
      Exception: Where the proposed parking area will be located within the
side yard or front yard adjacent to a similarly zoned property and where
internal access will be provided between the two (2) properties, the five foot
(5') setback requirement shall not apply.
   H.   Minimum Off Street Parking Space Dimensions: The regulations of this
paragraph shall govern the dimensions of off street parking spaces, including
those provided in developments approved in planned districts or by special
procedure.
   Except as otherwise provided for in this paragraph, all uses, except for
single-family residential, shall comply with the following parking
requirements:
      1.   Parking Table:
 
A   B    C     D     E     F     G
45°9.0' 19.7' 12.5' 12.7' 51.9' 45.6'
60°9.0' 21.0' 17.5' 10.5' 59.5' 55.0'
90°9.0' 19.0' 22.0' 9.0'  60.0' -
 
A = Parking angle (degrees)
B = Stall width
C = 19 foot minimum stall to curb
D = Aisle width1
E = Curb length per car
F = Curb to curb
G = Center to center width of double row with aisle between
 
Note:
    1.    Additional width may be required where the aisle serves as the
principal means of access to on site buildings or structures.
      2.   Parking Angle: In the event that the desired parking angle is not
specified by the above table, the zoning administrator may specify other
equivalent dimensions associated with the desired parking angle by
interpolating from dimensions listed in the table.
      3.   Compact Vehicles: A stall dimension of eight and one-half feet by
eighteen feet (8.5' x 18') or equivalent may be utilized for off street parking
stalls provided in excess of the minimum requirements as set forth in this
section when designated for compact car use.
      4.   Parallel Parking: On site parallel parking stalls shall be nine feet
by twenty two feet (9.0' x 22') two-way lane or fifteen feet (15') one-way
lane.
      5.   Loading Spaces: Loading spaces shall have a minimum dimension of
twelve by thirty five feet (12 x 35') and a vertical clearance of at least
fourteen feet (14').
      6.   Handicap Parking:
         a.   Parking spaces for the physically handicapped shall comply with
the standards set forth by the state of Illinois.
         b.   In shopping centers, ramps from parking areas or drive aisles for
the physically handicapped shall be provided along the sidewalks abutting
building frontages at intervals of not more than sixty feet (60').
         c.   The number of spaces that shall be reserved for the physically
handicapped shall comply with the standards contained in "Accessibility
Standards Illustrated" published by the Capital Development Board, state of
Illinois.
      7.   Curbed Islands: Curbed islands are required at ends of aisles where
necessary for traffic control or drainage. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-7-5: SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING:
All parking and loading areas shall be properly screened and landscaped as
hereinafter set forth. It is the purpose and intent of this section to require
adequate protection for adjacent property against undesirable effects from the
creation and operation of parking or loading areas and to protect and preserve
the appearance and character of the surrounding neighborhoods through the
screening effects and aesthetic qualities of such landscaping.
   A.   The landscaping shall include, to the extent necessary to further the
intent of this section, shrubs, bushes, hedges, trees, decorative walls or
fencing as set forth below.
   B.   The frontage along the entire parking or loading area adjacent to any
public or private street shall be landscaped and protected so as to separate
and screen any parking area from the adjacent streets, including the provision
of deciduous, hardwood street trees at not more than thirty five feet (35') on
center located either within the right of way if approved by the appropriate
public agency, or parallel to the right of way on the subject property.
   C.   In addition to any landscaped front, back or side yard areas required
by this or any other section for any parking area containing more than five (5)
spaces, a minimum of ten (10) square feet of interior landscaped area shall be
provided within the parking lot for each parking space. The landscaping shall
be in one or more areas so as to minimize and reduce the apparent size of
parking areas.
   D.   All interior landscaped areas provided in accordance with the preceding
paragraph shall be raised and curbed and shall have a minimum area of fifty
(50) square feet and a minimum width of five feet (5'). Each separate interior
landscaped area shall include at least one deciduous shade tree of a type and
size required herein, and there shall be a minimum of two (2) trees, within and
up to, every one hundred (100) linear feet of parking for each parking row.
Such trees shall be spaced evenly wherever possible and the ends of parking
rows abutting a circulation aisle shall be defined by interior landscaped areas
whenever feasible.
   E.   Deciduous shade trees shall have a minimum caliper of three inches (3")
in the trunk measured one foot (1') above the ground with a clear trunk of at
least five feet (5') where provided for screening, buffering or aesthetic
effect. Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in height at
planting. All trees shall be properly planted and staked. The number of such
trees shall be determined by the application of the above mentioned landscape
standards; provided, however, that in no instance shall there be less than two
(2) such trees in conjunction with the development of any parking facility or
lot.
   F.   No landscaped hedge shall be less than two feet (2') in height, and
three feet (3') in spread; however, no hedge, wall or berm shall exceed three
feet (3') in height within ten feet (10') of any driveway opening. The
individual plants used in the development or such a hedge shall be placed so as
to be not more than twenty four inches (24") on center.
   G.   The use of earth sculpting or berms may be required provided these are
designed in any area of enough size so as to avoid erosion, drainage or
maintenance problems.
   H.   Interior planting bed areas, which are used for the planting of trees,
or which are used for landscaping treatment generally, may be treated with
either grass and/or other types of ground cover or paver block on a sand and
gravel base located beneath and surrounding trees and shrubs.
   I.   All landscaping shall be permanently maintained in good condition,
satisfactory to the county, with at least the same quality and quantity of
landscaping as initially approved. In the event that landscaping should die,
the property owner shall replace same in a timely fashion, taking into
consideration the season of the year.
   J.   A perimeter landscaped buffer strip shall be provided and maintained at
a width of not less than five feet (5') between a parking lot or driveway and
the abutting property line at a side or rear yard. Other, more restrictive
standards for yards or buffering shall govern where required by this chapter.
   K.   All landscaped areas in parking areas or adjacent to parking or loading
areas, or that can be encroached upon by a motor vehicle, shall be provided
with an adequate, permanent curb to restrict the destruction of the landscaped
areas by vehicles. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-7-6: ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Determination Of Required Number Of Spaces:
      1.   Fractional Spaces: When determination of the number of off street
parking spaces required by this regulation results in a requirement of a
fractional space, the fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded,
and a fraction in excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking
space.
      2.   Floor Area: "Floor area", when used as a measurement for determining
the number of parking spaces, shall mean the gross floor area, except for areas
used for storage areas, stairwells, and mechanical equipment rooms.
      3.   Employees: Employees, when used as a measurement for determining the
number of parking spaces for a new or established business expanding, shall be
based on the number of employees in the largest shift.
   B.   Parking Exception For Churches: Off street parking facilities required
for churches may be reduced by fifty percent (50%) where churches are located
in nonresidential districts and within three hundred feet (300') of usable
public or private off street parking areas.
   C.   Parking For Multiple Use Buildings: The number of parking spaces
required for land or buildings used for two (2) or more purposes, shall be the
sum of the requirements for the various uses, computed in accordance with this
chapter. Parking facilities for one use shall not be considered as providing
the required parking facilities for any other use, except churches.
   D.   Use Of Required Parking Spaces: Required accessory off street parking
facilities provided for the uses hereinafter listed shall be solely for the
parking of motor vehicles in operating condition of patrons, occupants, or
employees of such uses and shall not be used for the storage of vehicles,
boats, motor homes, campers, mobile homes or materials or for the parking of
trucks used in conducting the business or use.
   E.   Parking In Residential Districts:
      1.   In residential districts overnight parking shall be limited to:
passenger vehicles; recreational vehicles; and not more than one commercial
vehicle of the light delivery type, not to exceed one ton in manufacturer's
rated hauling capacity per dwelling unit.
      2.   Parking spaces for all types of uses may be provided either in
garages or parking areas conforming with the provisions of this chapter.
Required off street parking spaces stipulated in this chapter may not overlap
sidewalks or the street right of way.
   F.   Accessory Parking Lots: All required off street parking or loading
spaces shall be provided on the same parcel of land occupied by the use or
building to which it is appurtenant; provided, however, that where there are,
in the judgment of the board, practical difficulties in satisfying the
requirement for parking space and/or if the public safety or convenience would
be better served by another location, the board may authorize an alternate
location for any portion of the required parking for a nonresidential use which
will adequately serve the public interest, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Required accessory off street parking facilities may be provided
elsewhere than on the lot on which the principal use served is located,
provided that the property occupied as parking is in the same possession,
either by deed, by easement, or by long term lease which has a term equal to or
exceeding the projected life or term of lease of the facility occupied by the
principal use, and further provided that the owner shall be bound by covenants
filed on record in the office of the county recorder, requiring the owners,
heirs or assigns, to maintain the required number of off street parking spaces
during the existence of such principal use.
      2.   Pedestrian access shall be available within a walking distance of
not more than three hundred feet (300') measured from the nearest point of
public access to the building to the nearest part of the accessory parking
area.
      3.   Such separated parking space shall be usable without causing
unreasonable traffic congestion, detriment to any residential neighborhood or
hazard to pedestrians or vehicular traffic.
      4.   All accessory parking lots shall be located on property zoned within
the same zoning district.
   G.   Change In Use: No off street parking space required under this chapter
shall be used for any other purpose. Where a change in use creates greater
parking requirements than the amount being provided, an occupancy certificate
shall not be issued until provision is made for the increased amount of
required off street parking.
   H.   Additions To Structures, Buildings Or Uses: Where an addition is made
to an existing structure, building, or use which does not comply with the
parking requirements cited for such structure, building, or use, the parking
requirements supplied for the addition shall include those spaces necessary to
bring the structure, building, or use as a whole into conformance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   I.   Existing Parking: No parking area or parking space which exists at the
time this chapter becomes effective or which subsequent thereto is provided for
the purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall thereafter
be relinquished or reduced in any manner below the requirements established by
this chapter.
   J.   Maintenance Of Parking Facilities: Any person operating or owning a
parking lot shall keep it free, as may be practical, of dust and loose
particles and shall promptly remove the snow and ice from the surface of the
parking lot. Such persons shall also keep all adjacent sidewalks free from
dirt, ice, sleet and snow and shall keep the sidewalks in a safe condition for
use by pedestrians. All signs, markers or any other methods used to indicate
direction of traffic movement and location of parking spaces shall be
maintained in a neat and legible condition. Likewise any walls, landscaping,
including trees and shrubbery, as well as surfacing and curbing of the parking
lot, shall be maintained in good condition throughout its use for parking
purposes, and the board shall have the authority to prohibit the use of the
area for parking purposes unless and until proper maintenance, repair or
rehabilitation is completed, including the replacement of any landscaping
material which may die from time to time, or the failure of the surface
drainage system within the parking area. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-7-7: SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
Uses Required Parking And Loading Spaces
Uses                                     Required Parking And Loading Spaces
A. Residential and lodging uses:          
  Dwellings (one-family, two-family,    2 parking spaces per dwelling unit. No
   multi-family)                         loading spaces required
                                         1 parking space per guestroom plus 1
  Motel/hotel/bed and breakfast         space per every 2 employees. See table
                                         B of this section for loading space
                                         requirement
B. Commercial uses:                       
                                         1 parking space located at each fuel
                                         dispenser, plus 3 spaces for each
                                         service bay, or similar facility plus
                                         1 space for each vehicle used directly
  Automobile service facility           in conduct of the business or stored
                                         on the premises, and 1 space for each
                                         employee. Required space marking shall
                                         not apply to spaces associated with
                                         fuel dispensers. No loading spaces
                                         required
                                         1 parking space per 3,000 square feet
                                         of open sales lot area devoted to the
                                         sale, display, or rental of said
   Automobile, truck, recreational       vehicles or equipment; or 4 spaces for
  vehicle, and equipment sales and      every 1,000 square feet of interior
   service, and rental                   showroom, whichever is greater; plus 3
                                         spaces for every service bay in garage
                                         repair areas, plus 1 for each
                                         employee. See table A of this section
                                         for loading space requirement
                                         Stacking area 5 times the capacity of
  Car wash - mechanical                 the car wash, plus 1 parking space per
                                         employee. No loading spaces required
                                         5 stacking spaces for each car washing
  Car wash - self-service               stall and 2 drying spaces for each car
                                         washing stall. No loading spaces
                                         required
                                         Parking and loading spaces equivalent
  Clubs, lodges                         to the combined requirements of the
                                         uses being conducted, such as
                                         restaurant, auditorium, etc.
                                         4 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                         of floor area plus 1 space for each
  Financial institutions                electronic teller, plus 5 stacking
                                         spaces for each drive-through teller
                                         position. No loading spaces required
                                         4 parking spaces for every 1,000
  Food markets and convenience stores   square feet of floor area. See table B
   under 5,000 square feet in floor area of this section for loading space
                                         requirement
                                         7 parking spaces for every 1,000
  Food markets over 5,000 square feet   square feet of floor area. See table A
   in floor area                         of this section for loading space
                                         requirement
                                         1 parking space for every 4 seats (1
                                         seat represents 2 feet of bench
                                         length) in parlor(s) or chapel with a
  Funeral homes, mortuaries             minimum of 10 total spaces provided,
                                         or 1 space for every 50 square feet
                                         gross floor area when there is no
                                         fixed seating. No loading spaces
                                         required
                                         4 parking spaces for every 1,000
                                         square feet of floor area, plus 2
                                         spaces for every 3 employees on the
  General contracting services          maximum shift, plus 1 space for every
                                         vehicle customarily used in operation
                                         of the use or stored upon the
                                         property. No loading spaces required
                                         5 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
  General offices                       of floor area. See table B of this
                                         section for loading space requirement
                                         5 parking spaces for each 1,000 square
                                         feet of floor area, except as
  Indoor retail uses                    otherwise herein noted. See table B of
                                         this section for loading space
                                         requirement
                                         Parking and loading spaces shall be
                                         calculated based upon the use of 371/
  Office/warehouse                      2 percent of the total square footage
                                         of building or buildings for office
                                         use and the remaining 621/2 percent
                                         based on warehouse use
                                         5 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
  Personal service uses                 except as otherwise herein noted. See
                                         table B of this section for loading
                                         space requirement
                                         32 parking spaces for every 1,000
                                         square feet of seating area, plus 2
  Restaurants with drive-through or     spaces for every 3 employees on the
   carryout facilities                   maximum shift plus 10 stacking spaces
                                         for each drive- through window and/or
                                         lane. No loading spaces required
                                         18 parking spaces per 1,000 square
   Restaurants without drive-through     feet of seating floor area, plus 2
  facilities, bars, taverns             spaces for every 3 employees on the
                                         maximum shift. No loading spaces
                                         required
                                         2 parking spaces for every 3 employees
                                         on the maximum shift, plus 1 space for
  Vehicle storage lots                  every vehicle customarily used in the
                                         conduct of the business or stored upon
                                         the premises. No loading spaces
                                         required
C. Industrial and transportation related  
   uses:
                                         1 parking space for every employee on
                                         the maximum shift, plus 1 space for
  Manufacturing plants                  every vehicle used in the operation of
                                         the use or stored on the premises. See
                                         table A of this section for loading
                                         space requirement
                                         2 parking spaces for every 3 employees
   Storage of sand, gravel and similar   on the maximum shift, plus 1 space for
  materials                             every vehicle used in the operation of
                                         the use, or stored on the premises. No
                                         loading spaces required
                                         1 parking space for every 200 square
                                         feet of lobby area, plus 2 spaces for
                                         every 3 employees on the maximum
  Terminal (air, bus, railroad, truck,  shift, plus 1 space for every vehicle
   and watercraft)                       used in the operation of the use or
                                         stored on the premises. See table A of
                                         this section for loading space
                                         requirement
                                         1 parking space for every 1,000 square
                                         feet of floor area within the
                                         warehouse, plus 4 spaces for every
                                         1,000 square feet of floor area in
  Warehouses                            office use, plus 1 space for vehicle
                                         used in the operation of the use or
                                         stored on the premises. See table A of
                                         this section for loading space
                                         requirement
D. Cultural and recreational uses:        
                                         20 parking spaces for every diamond or
                                         athletic field, or 1 space for every 4
  Athletic fields                       seats, whichever is greater. (1 seat
                                         is equal to 2 feet of bench length.)
                                         No loading spaces required
   Auditoriums, theaters, meeting rooms  1 parking space for every 2.5 seats
  and places for public assembly        based on maximum seating capacity. See
   (except as noted herein)              table B of this section for loading
                                         space requirement
  Bowling alleys                        5 parking spaces for every lane. No
                                         loading spaces required
   Community centers and private, not    4 parking spaces for every 1,000
  for profit recreation centers,        square feet gross floor area. No
   including gymnasiums and indoor       loading spaces required
   swimming pools
   Gymnasium without bleachers or fixed  1 parking space for every 100 square
  seating (except as noted herein)      feet of gross floor area. No loading
                                         spaces required
  Handball, racquetball courts          3 parking spaces for every court. No
                                         loading spaces required
                                         1 parking space for every 100 square
  Ice and roller rinks                  feet of skating area or playing
                                         surface. No loading spaces required
                                         50 parking spaces for every playing
                                         field, plus 1 space for every 3 seats
                                         of spectator seating (1 seat equals 2
  Indoor soccer                         feet of bench length), plus 2 spaces
                                         for every 3 employees on the maximum
                                         shift, but in no case less than 100
                                         spaces. No loading spaces required
                                         Parking space equivalent to 1 percent
                                         of the total land area. Parking area
  Parks, playgrounds, picnic grounds    available along park roads or private
                                         drives may be used to fulfill this
                                         requirement. No loading spaces
                                         required
                                         4 parking spaces for every 1,000
  Recreation centers                    square feet gross floor area. No
                                         loading spaces required
                                         1 parking space for every 2.5 seats (1
  Stadiums, sports arenas, and          seat is equal to 2 feet of bench
   gymnasiums with spectator facilities  length), plus 2 spaces for every
                                         employee on the maximum shift
                                         2 parking spaces for every 100 square
  Swimming pools                        feet of water area. No loading spaces
                                         required
  Tennis courts                         3 parking spaces for every court. No
                                         loading spaces required
E. Other uses:                            
                                         2 parking spaces for every 3 employees
                                         on the maximum shift, plus 1 space for
  Cemeteries                            every vehicle customarily used in
                                         operation of the use, or stored on the
                                         premises, plus 1 space for every 4
                                         seats in auditorium or chapel
                                         1 parking space for every 4 seats (1
                                         seat equals 2 feet of bench length),
  Churches                              plus 1 space for every vehicle
                                         customarily used in operation of the
                                         use or stored on the premises. No
                                         loading spaces required
                                         1 parking space for every 2 beds, plus
                                         1 space for every staff doctor and
  Hospitals                             employee on the maximum shift. See
                                         table B of this section for loading
                                         space requirement
                                         5 parking spaces for every 1,000
                                         square feet gross floor area, 1 space
                                         for every 6 seats in an accessory
  Libraries, reading rooms              auditorium, and 2 spaces for every 3
                                         employees on the maximum shift. See
                                         table B of this section for loading
                                         space requirement
                                         41/2 spaces for every 1,000 square
                                         feet gross floor area, or 4 spaces for
  Medical and dental offices and        every doctor and 1 space for every
   clinics                               additional employee, whichever is
                                         greater. See table B of this section
                                         for loading space requirement
                                         1 parking space for every 5 beds, 1
                                         space for every self-care unit, and 1
  Nursing homes                         space for every 2 employees on the
                                         maximum shift. See table B of this
                                         section for loading space requirement
                                         4 parking spaces for every customer
                                         service station, 2 spaces for every 3
                                         employees on the maximum shift, plus 1
  Postal stations                       space for every vehicle customarily
                                         used in operation of the use or stored
                                         on the premises. See table A of this
                                         section for loading space requirement
                                         4 parking spaces for every 1,000
                                         square feet of floor area up to 50,000
                                         square feet, plus 2 spaces for every
  Research facilities and laboratories  1,000 square feet of floor area over
                                         50,000 square feet. See table B of
                                         this section for loading space
                                         requirement
                                         2 spaces plus 1 space for every
                                         employee on the maximum shift; a paved
                                         unobstructed pick up space with
                                         adequate stacking area (as determined
                                         by the planning director) shall be
                                         provided in addition to standard
                                         driveway and parking requirements, or
                                         1 space for every 6 children; a safe
                                         pedestrian walkway system as approved
  Schools, nursery/preprimary           by the planning director shall be
                                         provided through parking areas to the
                                         building entrance, with a safety zone
                                         a minimum of 15 feet in width between
                                         parking spaces in front of the
                                         building entrance, shall be provided
                                         in addition to standard driveway
                                         parking requirements. See table B of
                                         this section for loading space
                                         requirement
                                         1 parking space for every classroom
                                         and office, and 1 space for every 2
  Schools, public and private, all      students over 16 years of age, plus 1
   grades and vocational                 space for every 2 employees on maximum
                                         shift. See table B of this section for
                                         loading spaces requirement
   Veterinary clinics, animal hospitals, 4 parking spaces for every doctor,
  kennels                               plus 1 for every additional employee.
                                         No loading spaces required
 
   TABLE A
Gross Floor Area Number Of Minimum
(Square Feet)    10' x 40' Loading Spaces1
Gross Floor Area           Number Of Minimum
(Square Feet)              10' x 40' Loading Spaces1
5,000 - 24,000             1
24,000 - 60,000            2
60,000 - 96,000            3
96,000 - 144,000           4
144,000 - 192,000          5
192,000 - 240,000          6
240,000 - 294,000          7
294,000 - 348,000          8
For each additional 54,000 1 additional loading space
 
Note:
    1.    Each 10 foot by 40 foot loading space shall have a height clear of
obstruction of not less than 14 feet.
TABLE B
 
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet) Number Of Loading Spaces
                               10' x 25' Minimum 10' x 40' Minimum1
2,000 - 10,000                 1                  
10,000 - 25,000                2                  
25,000 - 100,000               3                 1
For each additional 100,000    1 additional       
 
Note:
    1.    Each 10 foot by 40 foot loading space shall have a height clear of
obstruction of not less than 14 feet.
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
DIVISION 8
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
16-8-1: Purpose
16-8-2: Scope
16-8-3: Definitions
16-8-4: Administration And Enforcement
16-8-5: Prohibited Signs
16-8-6: Nonconforming Signs
16-8-7: Agricultural Signage
16-8-8: Residential Signage
16-8-9: Commercial And Industrial Signage
16-8-10: Other Signage
16-8-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this division to regulate and control the location,
erection, number and maintenance of signs and matters relating thereto within
Ogle County in order to promote public safety, health and general welfare of
the community. These regulations are specifically designed to:
   A.   Provide for uniform regulation and orderly development of signs
consistent with established ordinances of the county.
   B.   Prohibit hazardous and dangerous signs.
   C.   Provide a desirable and attractive living environment through
harmonious and uniform signage. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-8-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this division shall govern the erection, alteration, and
maintenance of all signs and outdoor display structures, together with their
appurtenant and auxiliary devices, with respect to location, size, content,
construction, structure, and fire safety.
   A.   The provisions of this division shall not apply to:
      1.   Flags of any nation, state, county, city or other governmental unit
and any not for profit organization;
      2.   Signs or other materials temporarily displayed in conjunction with
traditionally accepted patriotic, religious or local holidays or events or
official government public notices;
      3.   The erection, construction, and maintenance of official traffic,
fire and police signs, signals and devices and markings of the state, county or
city;
      4.   Nonilluminated directional or informational signs of a public
nature;
      5.   Residential garage or patio sale signs not to exceed six (6) square
feet and located upon premises where the sale is taking place;
      6.   Real estate signs for the purpose of advertising a particular lot,
building or premises for sale or lease. One or more temporary unlighted sign(s)
located on the premises being advertised shall be allowed as follows:
         a.   A premises with linear street frontage of six hundred sixty feet
(660') or less shall be allowed one sign with a maximum area of six (6) square
feet;
         b.   A premises with linear street frontage greater than six hundred
sixty feet (660') and less than two thousand six hundred forty feet (2,640')
shall be allowed one sign with a total area of not more than thirty two (32)
square feet. A second sign shall be allowed, provided that the minimum spacing
between signs on the same premises shall be five hundred feet (500') and the
maximum area of each sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet;
         c.   A premises with linear street frontage of two thousand six
hundred forty feet (2,640') or greater shall be allowed one sign for each one
thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') of linear street frontage, provided
that the minimum spacing between signs on the same premises shall be five
hundred feet (500') and the maximum area of each sign shall not exceed thirty
two (32) square feet;
         d.   Such signs shall be removed within five (5) days following the
date of closing or lease initiation;
      7.   Bulletin boards not over thirty two feet (32') in area, for public,
charitable, or religious institutions which are located on the premises of said
institutions;
      8.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other
incombustible materials;
      9.   Identification/occupational signs not exceeding one square foot in
size;
      10.   Signs erected inside a building not visible through windows and
signs not visible from adjoining properties or from public rights of way;
      11.   Crop identification sign, not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet
in gross surface area and shall be unlimited in number as to crop type or plot
of land. The duration of these signs shall be limited to the growing season;
      12.   Political signs, not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in gross
surface area and shall be unlimited in number as to message and plot of land.
These signs shall be erected only on private property no more than forty five
(45) days prior to election and shall be removed within seven (7) days after
election for which they were made;
      13.   Signs for the purpose of restricting the use of property are
permitted along the boundary line of a publicly or privately owned tract of
land. Each such sign shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area. In addition,
at the entrance of such tract of land, one sign shall be permitted not to
exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area;
      14.   Signs for the purpose of identifying the entrance, exit, traffic
direction, and parking facilities of public or private property on premises,
signs are permitted not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area and eight feet
(8') in height;
      15.   For the purpose of identifying the architect, engineer, or
contractor of work under construction, one temporary sign is permitted, not
exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in area;
      16.   Memorial or tablet signs;
      17.   Window signs covering not more than fifty percent (50%) of the
window surface. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section except when the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign which no longer correctly directs or exhorts any person,
advertises a bona fide business, lessor, owner, project or activity conducted
or product available on the premises where such sign is displayed.
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign which includes action or motion. For purposes of this
division, this term does not refer to flashing or changing, all of which are
separately defined.
AWNING: An architectural projection or shelter projecting from and supported by
the exterior wall of a building and composed of a covering of rigid or nonrigid
materials and/or fabric on a supporting framework that may be either permanent
or retractable, including such structures that are internally illuminated by
fluorescent or other light sources.
BANNER: A sign made of fabric, plastic, paper or other light pliable material,
not enclosed in a rigid frame.
BUILDING FACE OR WALL: All window and wall areas of a building in one plane or
elevation.
BUSINESS COMPLEX: Two (2) or more commercial businesses on a lot or contiguous
lots with common access and parking.
BUSINESS COMPLEX SIGN: A sign which is designed to identify a business complex
where no single business identification and/or advertisement occupies more than
fifty percent (50%) of the sign area.
CANOPY: Any structure attached to a building at the inner end and supported on
the other end, or a freestanding structure, with one or more supports, meant to
provide shelter from weather elements onto which signs may be affixed or
incorporated.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (AUTOMATIC): A sign such as electronically or electrically
controlled public service time, temperature and date sign, message center or
reader board, where different copy changes are shown on the same lamp bank.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (MANUAL): A sign on which copy is changed manually in the
field, i.e., reader boards with changeable letters or changeable pictorial
panels.
CHURCH BULLETIN BOARD: A sign attached to the exterior of a church or located
elsewhere on church premises and used to indicate the services and/or other
activities of the church, and including the church name.
COPY: The wording or graphics on a sign surface.
DOORWAY IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A nonilluminated sign which is limited to the
name, address, and number of the building, institution, or person and to the
activity carried on in the building or institution, or the occupancy of the
person; provided, that the lettering, excluding numbers, of each sign shall not
exceed two (2) square feet.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER: A sign on which the copy changes automatically on a
lamp bank or through mechanical means, such as electrical or electronic time
and temperature units.
ERECT: To build, construct, reconstruct, attach, hang, rehang, alter, place,
affix, enlarge, move or relocate and includes the painting and repainting of
existing sign structures.
FACADE: The front or main part of a building facing a street; for purposes of
this section, the facade is defined as measured from the ground elevation to
the head beam.
FILLING STATION (SERVICE STATION): Any business which dispenses, or is designed
to dispense gasoline and/or oil for use in motor vehicles or boats.
FRONTAGE: The length of the lot along the street side. The front of a lot
bordering more than one street is considered separate for each street.
GROUND LEVEL: Immediate surrounding grade.
HEIGHT OF SIGN: The vertical distance measured from the surrounding grade to
the highest point of a sign.
ILLEGAL SIGNS: A sign which contravenes this chapter, or a nonconforming sign
for which a permit is required under a previous ordinance was not obtained.
INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX: Two (2) or more industrial establishments on a lot or
contiguous lots with common access and parking.
INTERCHANGE: The system of interconnecting ramps between two (2) or more
intersecting guideways, rail lines, highways, and so on that are grade
separated.
INTERIOR PROPERTY LINE: Property lines other than those forming a dedicated
public right of way.
INTERSECTION: The point at which two (2) or more guideways or roadways meet.
LOGO: A letter, character, or symbol used to represent a person, corporation or
business enterprise.
OWNER: A person recorded as such on official records and including the duly
authorized agent or notary, a purchase lessee; any person having a vested or
contingent interest in the property or business in question.
PREMISES: An area of land with its appurtenances and buildings which, because
of its unity of use, may be regarded as the smallest conveyable unit of real
estate.
ROOFLINE: The highest point of the coping on a flat roof, false mansard, or
parapet wall; the deck line of a true mansard roof; the ridgeline between the
upper and lower slopes of a gambrel roof; or the mean height between the eaves
and ridge for a gable or hip roof.
SEASONAL OR SPECIAL OCCASION TEMPORARY SIGNS: A sign which is not permanent and
is limited to a specific activity or in the celebration of holidays or other
special events.
SHOPPING CENTER: A building containing four (4) or more shops, stores, and
other places of business, and providing off street parking facilities in common
for all of the businesses and their customers.
SHOW WINDOW SIGNS: Any temporary sign advertising sales or specials attached to
or within three feet (3') of the glass surface of any fixed window (glazing)
visible from the public right of way.
SIGN: Any name, identification, description, illustration or device illuminated
or nonilluminated which is visible from any public place or is located on
private property and exposed to the public and which directs attention to a
product, service, place, activity, person, institution, business or
solicitation, including any permanently installed or situated merchandise or
any emblem, painting, banner, pennant or placard designed to advertise,
identify or convey information, with the exception of window displays and
national flags. For the purpose of removal, signs shall also include all sign
structures. Not included are decorative devices or emblems as may be displayed
on a residential mailbox. For the purpose of this section, this definition
shall include those signs painted directly upon a building or structure.
SIGN AREA:
   A.   The area of a freestanding sign or structure not utilizing an integral
part of the building for its background means the largest cross sectional area
of the sign measured to a line encompassing all portions of the sign structure,
including tubing used in lighting such sign or structure, but excluding posts
without attached lighting. Further, the base on which a monument type sign is
set may be excluded; provided, there is no attached lighting;
   B.   The area of a double faced sign (i.e., a sign painted on 2 sides, or
signs which are erected in a "V" configuration with an angle between the 2
faces not exceeding 30 degrees), shall be the largest area on one side of the
sign. Further, these types of signs shall be considered one sign for the
purpose of determining the number of signs allowed;
   C.   The area of any sign or structure utilizing an integral part of the
building or awning as a background means the area within the shortest line
drawn to include all letters, design and tubing which are a part of the sign or
structure; provided, that for illuminated awnings the area shall be limited to
the area within the shortest line drawn to include all copy and graphics,
excluding illuminated areas outside of these lines.
SIGN, ATTACHED: A sign erected or placed upon the wall of any building with the
place of the face parallel to the plane of the wall below the roofline.
SIGN, COMMERCIAL DIRECTORY: A sign designating the name of a commercial center
and listing the various tenants of the center.
SIGN, CONSTRUCTION: A temporary sign used during the construction of new
buildings or reconstruction of or additions to existing buildings, such as
those identifying the project and denoting the owner, architect, engineer,
contractor, and/or financing institutions of the project.
SIGN, CROP IDENTIFICATION: A sign whose content includes the type, description,
identification and otherwise pertinent information of crops being grown on a
plot of land.
SIGN, DIRECTIONAL: A sign which indicates a direction for vehicular or
pedestrian traffic or other movement.
SIGN, FASCIA: A flat sign which projects one and one-half feet (11/2') or less
horizontally from the vertical face of the wall of a building, or vertical face
of a canopy awning or parapet upon which it is affixed, painted, or attached,
running parallel for its whole length to the face or wall of the building and
which does not extend beyond the horizontal width of such wall, awning or
parapet.
SIGN, FLASHING: Any sign which contains an intermittent or flashing light
source, or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by
means of animation, or an externally mounted intermittent light source.
Automatic changing signs such as public service time, temperature and date
signs or electronically controlled message centers are not defined as "flashing
signs".
SIGN, FLUTTERING: A sign which flutters and includes banners, flags, pennants,
or other flexible material which moves with the wind or by some artificial
means.
SIGN, FREESTANDING: A sign not attached to or forming a part of a building.
SIGN, GROUND: Any detached sign on the same lot or parcel as the use it
advertises which has its bottom portion erected upon or supported by the
ground, a ground planter box, or other supports.
SIGN, HANGING: Any sign hanging entirely beneath a canopy, portico, or marquee.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: Any sign which is illuminated by light source mounted on or
in the sign or at some other location.
SIGN, INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX: A sign which is designed to identify an industrial
complex where no single business identification and advertisement occupies more
than fifty percent (50%) of the sign.
SIGN, MEMORIAL OR TABLETS: The permanent part of a building which denotes the
name of the building, date of erection, historical significance, dedication, or
other similar information.
SIGN, MONUMENT: A sign and supporting structure which has similar top and
bottom dimensions and is constructed as a solid structure or one which gives
the appearance of a continuous, nonhollow, unbroken, unfenestrated mass.
Further, similar top and bottom dimensions shall mean dimensions which are
within ten percent (10%) of each other.
SIGN, NONCONFORMING: A sign legally erected prior to the effective date of this
division, but which does not conform to the provisions of this code.
SIGN, OCCUPATIONAL AND/OR IDENTIFICATION: An attached wall sign identifying the
name of a person occupying a building and mounted adjacent to the main entrance
of the building.
SIGN, OFF PREMISES: A sign that advertises products, services or facilities or
directs persons to a premises different from where the sign is installed.
SIGN, OFF PREMISES DIRECTIONAL: A sign which directs persons to a premises
different from where the sign is located. These signs typically include an
address or street name or direction such as "two blocks north on the right".
SIGN, ON PREMISES: A sign which carries only advertisements strictly related to
a lawful use of the premises on which it is located, including signs or sign
devices indicating the business transacted, services rendered, goods sold or
produced on the premises, name of the business, and name of the person, firm or
corporation occupying the premises. "On premises sign" also means a sign which
contains religious, political, social and other noncommercial messages.
SIGN, POLE: Any detached sign located on the same lot or parcel as the use it
advertises which is supported by one or more stationary poles no taller than
thirty feet (30') above the mean grade line of the ground at its base provided
that this shall not include a permitted ground sign as set forth.
SIGN, POLITICAL: A temporary sign advocating or opposing any political
proposition or candidate for public office.
SIGN, PORTABLE: Signs not permanently affixed to the ground or to a building.
SIGN, PROJECT IDENTIFICATION: A permanent ground sign identifying an apartment
complex, condominium project, or mobile home development entry, name, and/or
street names within the project.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign, other than an attached sign, that is attached to or
projects more than eighteen inches (18") from a building face or wall or from a
structure whose primary purpose is other than the support of a sign.
SIGN, PROPERTY REAL ESTATE: A sign pertaining only to the prospective rental,
lease, or sale of the property upon which it is located. Real estate signs
shall be excluded from the definition of pole signs.
SIGN, RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION PROJECT: Any temporary sign that provides
direction to any residential development under construction, or promotes the
residential development on the project site.
SIGN, ROOF: Any sign erected on a roof but excluding marquee and canopy signs
and wall signs. The generally vertical plane of a mansard type roof shall be
interpreted as the same as a wall of a building.
SIGN, ROTATING: A sign in which the sign itself or any portion of the sign
moves in a revolving or similar manner.
SIGN STRUCTURE: The sign and all parts associated with its construction.
SIGN, SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION: A permanent ground sign identifying a
subdivision entry, subdivision name, and/or street names within the
subdivision.
SIGN SUPPORTS: All structures by which a sign is held up, including, for
example, poles, braces, guys, and anchors.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: Any sign intended for a limited or intermittent period of
display.
SIGN, WINDOW: A temporary sign affixed to the inside of an exterior window or
glass door.
SPECIAL DISPLAYS: Signs not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet, used for
holidays, public demonstrations, or promotion of civil welfare or charitable
purposes.
STANDARD OUTDOOR ADVERTISING STRUCTURE AND/OR BILLBOARD: Any sign intended to
attract general public interest concerning a commercial enterprise, product,
service, industry, or other activity not conducted, sold or offered on the
premises upon which the sign is erected. This includes billboards, detached
pole signs on separate parcels, wall signs and signs otherwise attached to
buildings and/or supported by uprights or braces on the ground. Real estate
signs and political signs are excluded from this definition. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-8-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Application/Zoning Approval: Except where herein otherwise stated, no
sign subject to the regulations of this code shall be erected without first
obtaining a zoning certificate. To obtain a zoning certificate for a sign, the
person(s) erecting the sign shall complete an application form provided by the
zoning administrator. Applications for sign permits shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      1.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the applicant, the
owner of the property on which the sign is to be erected or affixed, the owner
of the sign and the person to be erecting or affixing the sign.
      2.   The location of the building, structure or lot on which the sign is
to be erected or affixed.
      3.   A site plan of the property involved, showing accurate placement
thereon, of the proposed sign.
      4.   The written consent of the owner of the building, structure or
property on which the sign is to be erected or affixed.
      5.   Such other information as the zoning administrator may require to
determine full compliance with this and other applicable ordinances of the
county.
   B.   Removal Of Signs:
      1.   The zoning administrator may cause the removal of any sign that is
an immediate peril to persons or property summarily and without notice.
      2.   If any sign is erected without a permit, the zoning administrator
shall order it removed.
      3.   If any sign is erected or maintained so as to obstruct free ingress
or egress from any door, window or fire escape, the zoning administrator shall
order it removed.
   C.   Maintenance And Appearance Of Signs: All advertising signs, together
with all of their supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in good
repair and maintained in a safe condition. All advertising signs and the sites
upon which they are located shall be maintained in a neat, clear and attractive
condition, and advertising signs shall be kept free from excessive rust,
corrosion, peeling paint or other surface deterioration. The display surface of
all standard outdoor advertising structures shall be kept neatly painted or
posted. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-8-5: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   Animated signs.
   B.   Any sign erected in a public easement or right of way.
   C.   Any sign erected so as to prevent free ingress to or egress from any
door or window, or any other way required by the building or fire codes of the
county.
   D.   Any sign attached to any public utility pole, tree, fire hydrant, curb,
sidewalk or other surface located on public property.
   E.   Any sign erected in any location where, by reason of its location, it
will obstruct the view of any authorized traffic sign, signal, or other traffic
control device. Nor may any sign, by reason of its shape, position or color
interfere with or be confused with any authorized traffic signal, sign or
device. Further, no sign shall be erected in the sight distance triangle or any
other location where it will obstruct vision of the public right of way to a
vehicle operator during ingress to, egress from, or while traveling on the
public right of way.
   F.   Any on premises sign other than a standard outdoor advertising
structure and/or billboard advertising an article or product not manufactured,
assembled, processed, repaired or sold or a service not rendered upon the
premises upon which the sign is located.
   G.   Any sign or advertising device such as banners and pennants affixed on
poles, wires, ropes or streamers, wind operated devices, fluttering signs,
pinwheels, streamers, banners, street banners, and A-frames or other portable
signs of like nature, and other similar contraptions or techniques.
   H.   Signs placed or affixed to vehicles and/or trailers which are parked on
a public right of way, public property, or private property so as to be visible
from a public right of way where the apparent purpose is to advertise a product
or direct people to a business activity located on the same or nearby property.
However, this is not in any way intended to prohibit signs placed on or affixed
to vehicles and trailers, such as permanent lettering on motor vehicles, where
the sign is incidental to the primary use of the vehicle or trailer.
   I.   Off premises signs except as provided in this division.
   J.   Signs which contain flashing lights which exceed more than ten percent
(10%) of the area of the sign including electronic message centers; however,
not including digital time and temperature signs involving only that
information and no further or additional information of an advertising nature.
Such time and temperature signs shall be constant or steady in nature, and
shall not grow, melt, X-ray, up or down scroll, write on, travel, inverse,
roll, twinkle, snow or present pictorials or other animation.
   K.   Portable signs.
   L.   Project identification or real estate signs promoting the sale of lots
prior to the approval of a final plat.
   M.   Signs which contain characters, cartoons, statements, works or pictures
of an obscene, indecent, prurient, or immoral character.
   N.   Signs containing strobe lights which are visible from beyond the
property line; and, signs artificially illuminated which are of such intensity
or placed in such manner as to interfere with, or impair the vision of the
driver of a motor vehicle, or otherwise interfere with any driver's operation
of a motor vehicle.
   O.   Window signs covering more than fifty percent (50%) of the window
surface.
   P.   Signs that impact the availability of direct sunlight to an existing
solar energy system which, by determination of the zoning administrator,
contributes substantially to the space and/or water heating requirements of a
building.
   Q.   Any freestanding sign which, by its location and/or structural design,
would interfere with the safe and efficient use of off street parking and
loading areas, including aisleways and access driveways. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-8-6: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Any sign unless otherwise excepted by this division, legally existing
prior to enactment of this division but which shall violate any provision of
this division, may continue to be maintained and used subject to the following
provisions:
      1.   Enlargement: Nonconforming signs shall not be enlarged, expanded, or
extended to occupy a greater square footage or height than was occupied on the
date of adoption or amendment of this division.
      2.   Relocation: Nonconforming signs shall not be moved in whole or in
part to any other portion of the lot, parcel or building not so occupied on the
date of adoption of this division, except that any such sign which is hereafter
required to be moved by a governmental body for the purpose of construction,
relocation, widening, or improvement of a street, highway, or other public
purpose, may be relocated once and allowed to be maintained and used as before.
      3.   Discontinuance: If the business or service advertised or identified
by a nonconforming sign ceases to be conducted for a period of exceeding one
hundred eighty (180) calendar days, the nonconforming sign shall be classified
as an "abandoned sign" and removed.
      4.   Destruction: Should any nonconforming sign be destroyed by any means
to an extent of up to fifty percent (50%) of its surface area or structure, it
shall not be reconstructed, except in conformance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   If any existing sign is repainted or the sign panels are replaced for
the purpose of changing the business, occupation, or tenant advertised or
identified, it shall be considered a new sign. However, the repainting or
replacement of panels on a billboard shall not be considered a new sign.
Ordinary maintenance or repair of an existing sign to a safe condition shall
not be cause to classify the sign as a new sign.
   C.   In cases of doubt or on a specific question raised whether a
nonconforming sign exists, it shall be a question of fact decided by the zoning
administrator, and may be appealed to the zoning board of appeals. (Ord., 9-17-
1996)
16-8-7: AGRICULTURAL SIGNAGE:
   A.   Allowable Signs:
      1.   Identification signs associated with permitted uses, not exceeding
thirty two (32) square feet in gross surface area. One such sign shall be
permitted on each frontage.
      2.   Commercial identification sign associated with permitted uses as
regulated by relevant special use permit or permits, not exceeding thirty two
(32) square feet in gross surface area. One such sign shall be permitted on
each frontage.
      3.   Monument signs associated with a public or semipublic use, not
exceeding one hundred twenty eight (128) square feet in gross surface area.
   B.   Location And Height:
      1.   No sign placed upon the ground shall be located closer than ten feet
(10') to any interior property line and shall meet the sight triangle
requirements of paragraph 16-6-2E of this chapter.
      2.   No sign attached to the wall of a building or other structure shall
extend above the roofline of that building or structure.
      3.   With the exception of monument signs, no sign shall exceed ten feet
(10') in height from the surrounding grade to the highest point of the sign.
Monument signs shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in height from the
surrounding grade to the highest point of the sign. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-8-8: RESIDENTIAL SIGNAGE:
   A.   Allowable Signs:
      1.   Subdivision Identification Signs: Two (2) permanent subdivision
signs not exceeding fifty (50) square feet in size per face inclusive of any
logo, shall be allowed per development. Where the development has access on two
(2) or more streets, or has more than one entrance to one street,
identification shall be allowed at each entrance.
      2.   Monument Signs Associated With A Public Or Semipublic Use: Not more
than one sign per street frontage not exceeding one hundred twenty eight (128)
square feet in size per face inclusive of any logo.
      3.   Residential Construction Project Signs:
         a.   Promotional Signs: One sign not exceeding ninety six (96) square
feet per face. Such signs shall be removed within two (2) years from the date
of issuance of the sign permit, or when eighty percent (80%) of the lots and/or
dwelling units have been sold, whichever circumstance occurs first.
         b.   Directional Signs: Any number of signs not exceeding ten (10)
square feet per face. Such signs may include directions to the development and
pertinent information concerning the developer but shall exclude promotional
information, and shall be removed within two (2) years from the date of
issuance of the sign permit, or when eighty percent (80%) of the lots and/or
dwelling units have been sold, whichever circumstance occurs first.
      4.   Institutional Identification Signs For Churches, Schools, Hospitals
Or Fraternal, Benevolent And Social Service Organizations: One permanent sign
shall be allowed on the same premises provided that said sign does not exceed
ninety six (96) square feet in area per facing on each roadway.
      5.   Special Displays And Other Temporary Signs: See paragraph 16-8-10B
of this division.
      6.   Signs Identifying The Name And/Or Owner(s) Of A Premises: One sign
not exceeding ten (10) square feet in gross surface area shall be permitted at
each entrance to the premises.
      7.   Signs Identifying A Multiple-Family Residential Building: One sign
not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in gross surface area shall be permitted
per lot frontage.
   B.   Location And Height:
      1.   No sign placed upon the ground shall be located closer than ten feet
(10') to any interior property line and shall meet the sight triangle
requirements of paragraph 16-6-2E of this chapter.
      2.   No sign attached to the wall of a building or other structure shall
extend above the roofline of that building or structure.
      3.   Residential construction project signs, subdivision identification
signs, monument signs and institutional identification signs shall not exceed
fifteen feet (15') in height from the surrounding grade to the highest point of
the sign. Other signs, unless otherwise indicated, shall not exceed eight feet
(8') in height from the surrounding grade to the highest point of the sign.
      4.   Directional signs: No sign shall exceed three and one-half feet
(3.5') above the elevation of the adjacent driveway at the point which it meets
the street right of way. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-8-9: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SIGNAGE:
   A.   Allowable Signs:
      1.   Attached Signs: One attached sign not exceeding five percent (5%) of
the total square footage of the building face upon which it is placed. In the
instance of corner lots, an additional attached sign will be permitted on each
street footage of the respective building face upon which it is placed. For
buildings with multiple tenants, see other requirements below.
      2.   Ground Signs: One ground sign per lot not exceeding sixty four (64)
square feet per face may be substituted for the allowable pole sign.
      3.   Pole Signs: One pole sign per lot not exceeding ninety six (96)
square feet per face.
      4.   Occupational/Identification Signs: One attached, nonilluminated sign
not exceeding two (2) square feet in size displaying the name, occupation and/
or service located upon the premises and the address.
      5.   Window Signs: Shall not cover more than twenty percent (20%) of the
total window area or door to which they are applied.
      6.   Commercial Directory Signs: For buildings with multiple tenants, a
directory sign may be substituted in lieu of the allowable pole sign and/or
ground mounted sign not exceeding ninety six (96) square feet per face.
      7.   Projecting Signs: Projecting signs shall be permitted in lieu of
freestanding signage on any street frontage limited to one sign per occupancy
along any street frontage with public entrance to such an occupancy. Such signs
shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet per face.
   B.   Location And Height:
      1.   Attached signs: Such signs shall be face mounted on the building
wall, projecting not more than eighteen inches (18") from the face of the
building. Such signs shall not project above the parapet wall, mansard, or
other roofline, shall maintain a clearance of ten feet (10') above the ground
or pavement, and shall be recessed where involving a pitched roof location.
      2.   Ground signs: Such signs shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height
from the surrounding grade to the highest point on the sign and shall be
located no closer than ten feet (10') to any property line. Such signs shall
meet the sight triangle requirements of paragraph 16-6-2E of this chapter and
shall not be located so as to obstruct vision at a vehicular entry or exit from
the property.
      3.   Pole signs: Such signs shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in height
from the surrounding grade to the highest point on the sign, and shall be
located no closer than two feet (2') to a street or road right of way line, no
closer than ten feet (10') to an interior property line. The bottom of the sign
shall be at least eight feet (8') above surrounding grade.
      4.   Occupational/identification signs: Such signs shall conform to the
locational requirements of paragraph A1, "Attached Signs", of this section.
      5.   Window signs: Such signs may only be attached to the interior of a
window or glass door and shall be maintained in good repair.
      6.   Commercial directory signs:
         a.   Ground sign: Such signs shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in
height from the surrounding grade to the highest point of the sign, and shall
be located no closer than ten feet (10') to any public street rights of way or
property line.
         b.   Pole sign: Such signs shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in
height from the surrounding grade to the highest point on the sign, and shall
be located no closer than two feet (2') to a street or road rights of way line,
no closer than ten feet (10') to an interior property line. The bottom of the
sign shall be at least eight feet (8') above surrounding grade.
      7.   Projecting signs: No such sign shall extend vertically above the
highest point of the building facade upon which it is mounted by more than six
inches (6"), and shall not project horizontally more than eight feet (8'). The
bottom of the sign shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') above grade. No such
sign shall project into or over a public right of way.
   C.   Other Requirements:
      1.   Construction Signs: Construction signs as permitted by paragraph 16-
8-8A3 of this division.
      2.   Maximum Number: Each building or property shall be allowed a maximum
of two (2) signs, which may be either an attached sign, a ground sign, or a
pole sign, but the total number shall not include more than one sign of each of
these types. Window signs, and occupational/directional signs as regulated by
this section are excluded from this maximum of two (2) signs. When a directory
sign is substituted for the allowable pole and/or ground sign, only attached
and/or fascia signs shall be allowed as additional signs.
      3.   Buildings With Multiple Occupancy: For buildings and/or property
containing more than one business or tenant, each business or tenant may have
one attached or projecting sign conforming to the requirements of this section.
For the purposes of determining the total square footage of the attached or
projecting sign, only the face of each respective lease unit to which the
respective sign will be attached shall be counted. Each sign must be attached
to the lease unit containing the business tenant identified.
      4.   Exception: Each building or property may have one additional
attached sign conforming to the requirements of this section on walls
containing a main entrance which face customer parking areas and are not
visible from either a public or private street. For this exception to apply,
the signs must be attached to the same wall as their respective entrances and
both the signs and the entrances must be upon the same plane of the building.
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-8-10: OTHER SIGNAGE:
   A.   Automobile And Truck Services Station; Convenience Stores With Gasoline
Pumps:
      1.   Allowable signs:
         a.   Brand Identification Signs:
            (1)   One pole sign not exceeding ninety six (96) square feet per
face.
            (2)   One ground sign, in lieu of a pole mounted sign, not
exceeding sixty four (64) square feet in size per face.
            (3)   One attached sign not exceeding five percent (5%) of the
total square footage of the building face upon which it is placed. In the
instance of corner lots, an additional sign will be permitted on each street
frontage of building not exceeding five percent (5%) of the total square
footage of the respective building face upon which it is placed.
            (4)   One attached company logo not exceeding thirty two (32)
square feet per street frontage.
         b.   Price Signs:
            (1)   One price sign per pump island not exceeding two (2) square
feet per face per sign.
            (2)   One price sign as component of the permitted pole sign not
exceeding ten (10) square feet per face in lieu of the price signs per pump
island.
            (3)   In those instances where digital price signs are utilized,
such signs shall be constant in nature, and shall not travel, flush, inverse,
write on, up or down scroll, roll, grow, melt, X-ray, twinkle, snow, or
otherwise change in nature.
         c.   Self-Service And/Or Full Service Signs: Two (2) self-service
signs per pump island not exceeding five (5) square feet per face per sign.
         d.   Other Signs: Federal and state stamps, octane ratings, pump use
directions, no smoking signs, as required by federal, state and local
authorities.
      2.   Location and height:
         a.   Brand identification signs:
            (1)   Pole signs: As regulated by section
16-8-9 of this division.
            (2)   Ground mounted signs: As regulated by section
16-8-9 of this division.
            (3)   Attached signs: As regulated by section
16-8-9 of this division.
         b.   Company logos: As regulated by paragraph
16-8-9A1, "Attached Signs", of this division.
         c.   Price signs and self-service and/or full service signs: Shall be
located at the ends of pump island and may be affixed to the canopy, canopy
supports, poles, or end pumps.
         d.   Federal and state stamps, etc.: Shall be placed upon the body of
the gasoline pump, or as required by the respective governmental authority.
      3.   Other requirements:
         a.   Canopy Use: An attached or detached canopy may be used in lieu of
the permitted pole sign for the location of brand identification signs, or as
an alternative location for price signs, or company logos.
         b.   Portable Signs: The use of portable signs for the advertisement
of cigarettes, food, or other sundry items is specifically prohibited.
   B.   Special Displays And Other Temporary Signs:
      1.   The following temporary signs may be approved by the zoning
administrator for up to a thirty (30) day time period. Such signs may be
extended beyond the thirty (30) day time period, but only upon review and
approval by the planning, assessment and zoning committee. The use of such
devices for special promotions shall be limited to three (3) such events for
each business in a calendar year with a maximum time period of fourteen (14)
days for each event. These events may be consecutive.
         a.   Banners and pennants.
         b.   Sign announcing openings.
         c.   Seasonal or special occasion signs such as special events and
special business hours.
   C.   Standard Outdoor Advertising Structures (Billboards):
      1.   Where Permitted: Advertising signs complying with all the
requirements of this chapter shall be permitted upon all property within the I-
1 district. Within areas zoned planned development district or property in any
district upon which a special use permit has been issued, such advertising
signs shall only be permitted when specifically authorized upon the final
development plan or permit approval.
      2.   Area And Height:
         a.   The maximum area for any one sign shall not exceed six hundred
seventy two (672) square feet in size per face excluding extensions and
embellishments, with a maximum height of fourteen feet (14') and a maximum
length of forty eight feet (48') inclusive of border and trim, but excluding
the base, apron, supports, and other structural members.
         b.   Extensions to the top of advertising signs are permitted.
However, in no case shall any extensions exceed ninety six (96) square feet in
total area or extend more than five and one-half feet (5.5') in height above
the top of said sign. Other extensions are permitted as follows:
            (1)   Side extensions: Two feet (2') on each side.
            (2)   Bottom extensions: One foot (1').
         c.   Embellishments to advertising signs shall not exceed one foot
(1') out from the facing of said sign.
         d.   The maximum height shall not exceed fifty feet (50') from the
highest point on the sign to surrounding grade or street level, whichever is
higher.
         e.   The maximum size limitations shall apply to each side of a sign
structure, and signs may be placed back to back or in a V-type construction
with not more than three (3) side by side displays to each facing, but such
sign structures shall be considered as one sign. A group of not more than two
(2) advertising signs shall be permitted on one sign structure. However, there
shall be no vertical stacking signs.
      3.   Location:
         a.   No such sign shall be erected within one thousand (1,000) linear
feet of an existing sign in any direction.
         b.   No such sign shall be located within one thousand (1,000) linear
feet of a residential district.
         c.   No sign shall be located in such a manner as to obstruct or
otherwise physically interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic
sign, signal, or device or obstruct or physically interfere with a motor
vehicle operator's view of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic.
         d.   No structures may be located adjacent to or within five hundred
feet (500') of an interchange, intersection at grade, or safety rest area. Said
five hundred feet (500') shall be measured from the beginning or ending of the
pavement widening at the exit from or entrance to the main traveled way.
         e.   The minimum front yard setback for such signs shall be fifty feet
(50') from any public right of way, and/or private roadway easement.
         f.   No sign shall be located on any public or private utility
easement, road, drainage easement, or railroad right of way.
         g.   All linear distances required by this section shall be measured
from the nearest outside edge of the subject sign, whether a support,
structural member, or the sign surface itself, to the nearest outside edge of
the corresponding sign, building, right of way, or easement involved.
      4.   Plans Required: An application to erect such a sign shall be
accompanied by the following:
         a.   A site plan, to scale containing:
            (1)   The proposed location for the sign upon the property.
            (2)   The distance from the proposed sign location to any buildings
upon the property, and adjoining street right of way lines, and driveway
entrances.
            (3)   The distance from the proposed sign location to the next
nearest billboard sign on either side of the street in either direction.
            (4)   The distance from the proposed sign location to the nearest
street intersection in either direction.
            (5)   Other information deemed necessary by the zoning
administrator.
         b.   A representation of the proposed sign, to scale, including the
width and length of the sign faces, and height from surrounding grade.
      5.   Construction Specification: Henceforth, any such sign erected under
this chapter shall be single pedestal type, constructed of nonflammable
material, excluding wood.
   D.   Off Premises Directional Signs: Off premises directional/informational
signs directing motorists to a lawfully established business, industry or point
of interest to the general public (i.e., historical, cultural, educational).
      1.   Such signs shall not exceed ten (10) square feet in size per face,
shall not be erected in a public right of way or easement, shall not be located
within three hundred thirty feet (330') of any other "off premises directional/
informational" sign, and shall comply with the requirements of the sight
distance triangle.
      2.   Such signs may contain the following for directional informational
purposes only:
         a.   Name of destination that sign is directing motorists to;
         b.   Distance to destination;
         c.   Type of business/industry or basic service(s) offered;
         d.   Distance and/or direction(s) to destination. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
DIVISION 9
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
16-9-1: General Provisions
16-9-2: Zoning Certificates
16-9-3: Occupancy Certificates
16-9-4: Certificate For Continued Occupancy Of Nonconforming Uses
16-9-5: Appeals
16-9-6: Variations
16-9-7: Amendments
16-9-8: Special Uses
16-9-9: Entry And Inspection Of Land And Buildings
16-9-10: Violations, Penalty, Enforcement
16-9-11: Fees
16-9-12: Appendix I; Procedure For Filing An Application For Approval Of A
Pollution Control Facility (PCF)
16-9-13: Appendix II; Agricultural Acknowledgment Affidavit
16-9-14: Appendix III; Mining Acknowledgment Affidavit
16-9-15: Appendix IV; Regulation Of Telecommunications Facilities
16-9-16: Illustrations
16-9-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Administration: The administration of this division is hereby vested in
the following:
      1.   Zoning Administrator:
         a.   Authorization: A zoning administrator shall be appointed by the
county board. The zoning administrator shall be authorized to expend such funds
to employ deputies and clerical assistance and to carry out his or her duties
under this chapter or as shall be authorized from time by the county board.
         b.   Duties Of The Zoning Administrator: The zoning administrator, or
the duly designated and acting deputy, shall enforce this chapter, and in
furtherance of said authority shall:
            (1)   Approve and issue all zoning and occupancy certificates and
make and maintain records thereof;
            (2)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land
to determine whether they comply with the terms of this zoning ordinance;
            (3)   Have available in book or pamphlet form the compiled text of
the zoning ordinance and amendments thereof;
            (4)   Have available in map form, on or before March 31 of each
year, a zoning map, or maps showing the zoning districts, divisions and
classifications in effect in any township in Ogle County as of December 31 of
the preceding year. If no changes in the zoning districts, divisions and
classifications in effect in Ogle County have been made during the preceding
calendar year, then no zoning map need be printed for such year for such
township;
            (5)   Maintain for distribution to the public a supply of copies of
the zoning map, or maps, the compiled text of the zoning ordinance and the
rules of the board of appeals;
            (6)   Receive, file and forward to the board of appeals records in
all appeals and all applications for variations, special use permits, and
amendments to this chapter;
            (7)   Provide such clerical and technical assistance as may be
required by the zoning board of appeals in the exercise of its duties;
            (8)   Attend monthly and/or special meetings of the Ogle County
regional planning commission as an appointed ex officio member of said
commission.
      2.   Zoning Board Of Appeals:
         a.   Authorization: A zoning board of appeals shall be established by
the county board. The word "board" when used in this section shall be construed
to mean the zoning board of appeals. The said board shall consist of five (5)
members appointed by the county board. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
         b.   Membership Of The Board: All members of the board shall be
residents of separate congressional townships at the time of their appointment.
The members of said board shall serve respectively for the following terms, or
until their respective successors are appointed and qualify: one for one year,
one for two (2) years, one for three (3) years, one for four (4) years, and one
for five (5) years. Vacancies upon said board shall be filled for the unexpired
term of the member whose office has become vacant in the same manner as is
provided for the appointment of such member. One of the members of said board
shall be designated by the county board as chairman, and in the case of
vacancy, said county board shall designate a successor chairman. The county
board shall have the power to remove any member of said board for cause after
public hearing. The members of the board shall serve without salary, but they
shall be paid such per diem fees to cover their expenses as shall be authorized
from time to time by the county board. (Ord., 5-20-2003)
         c.   Jurisdiction Of The Board: The board shall have the following
jurisdiction and authority:
            (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the zoning administrator under this chapter;
            (2)   To hear and decide all applications for variations;
            (3)   To hold public hearings on all applications for amendment to
this chapter and report its findings and recommendations with respect to
proposed amendments to the county board;
            (4)   To hear all applications for special use permits and report
findings and recommendations to the county board;
            (5)   To hear and decide all other matters referred to it or upon
which it is required to pass under this chapter;
            (6)   No rehearing shall be held on amendments to the zoning
district when denied, for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of said
decision of denial by the county board.
         d.   Meetings And Rules Of The Board: All meetings of the board shall
be held at the call of the chairperson and at such times and places within the
county, consistent with the applicable Illinois statutes, as the board may
determine. All hearings required by this chapter to be conducted by the board
shall be open to the public. Any person may appear and testify at a hearing
either in person or by a duly authorized agent or attorney. All testimony shall
be given under oath. The chairperson, or in his absence the acting chairperson,
shall administer oaths and may compel the attendance of witnesses.
   The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each
member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact, and shall also keep records of its hearings and other official actions.
Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and every other
requirement, decision or determination of the board shall be filed immediately
in the office of the zoning administrator and shall be a public record. The
board shall adopt and make available to the public its own rules of procedure
not in conflict with this chapter or with the applicable Illinois statutes, and
may select or appoint such officers as it deems necessary.
         e.   Finality Of Decisions Of The Board In Certain Cases: The
decisions and findings of the board on appeals from a decision of the zoning
administrator and variations shall be final administrative determinations and
shall be subject to judicial review under the provisions of the Illinois
administrative review act. The power of the board to act with respect to
amendments and special use permits is advisory only and such action does not
constitute a final administrative determination.
         f.   Appearance By School Districts: In every hearing before the
board, any school district within which the property in issue, or any part
thereof, is located shall have the right to appear and present evidence.
      3.   Ogle County Regional Planning Commission: The Ogle County regional
planning commission shall have the following duties under this chapter:
         a.   To receive from the zoning administrator copies of certain
applications for the amendment to this chapter, as determined by the planning,
assessment and zoning committee and to report thereon with its recommendations
as to their compatibility with the official comprehensive plan as amended to
the zoning board of appeals on or before the public hearing.
         b.   To receive from the zoning administrator copies of certain
applications for special use permits, as determined by the planning, assessment
and zoning committee and to report thereon with its recommendations as to their
compatibility with the official comprehensive plan as amended to the zoning
board of appeals on or before the public hearing.
         c.   To hold conferences in regard to proposed planned developments
under this chapter and submit to the zoning board of appeals a written report
with its recommendations to the zoning board of appeals on or before the public
hearing.
         d.   To initiate, direct and review the provisions of this chapter,
the township zoning district maps, and the comprehensive plan as to its
compatibilities and to make reports or recommendations to the county board not
less frequently than annually. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-9-2: ZONING CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Construction of any building, structure or addition thereto shall not
be commenced; preliminary work shall not be done with respect to any other use
of land; and no permits pertaining to the use of land or buildings shall be
issued, by officer, employee, department, board or bureau of Ogle County,
unless a zoning certificate has been obtained from the office of the zoning
administrator. Any permit or certificate of occupancy issued in conflict with
the provisions of this chapter shall be null and void.
      1.   Application Of Zoning Certificate: An application for a zoning
certificate shall be filed with the zoning administrator in such form and in
such manner as may be required. In agricultural districts the only requirement
shall be written notification and shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator for a building or structure used or to be used exclusively for
agricultural purposes as defined herein, and need only show the building
setback lines in relation to abutting public streets or highways.
      2.   Issuance Of Zoning Certificates:
         a.   Certificate Of Architect Affixed: When an application for a
zoning certificate has affixed to it the certificate of an architect or
registered professional engineer licensed by the state of Illinois certifying
that the proposed building, structure or addition thereto complies with all the
provisions of this chapter with respect to building lines, lot size and bulk,
and provided that the proposed use is permitted in the district in which the
land is located, then the zoning administrator shall, upon receipt of such
application, approve and authorize the issuance of a zoning certificate. Within
twenty (20) days after the date of such issuance, the zoning administrator
shall examine said application and shall notify the architect or registered
professional engineer in writing if the building or structure and the proposed
use thereof do not in fact comply with all of the provisions of this chapter.
Failure of the architect or the registered professional engineer to show
compliance within thirty (30) days after such notification shall be cause for
revocation of the zoning certificate. All buildings shall be completed within
twenty four (24) months of issuance of the zoning certificate.
         b.   Certificate Of Architect Not Affixed: When an application for a
zoning certificate does not have affixed to it the certificate of an architect
or registered professional engineer as described above, then if the proposed
building or structure or addition thereto and use comply with all of the
provisions of this chapter, the zoning administrator shall issue a zoning
certificate within twenty (20) days after receipt of such application. If
proposed building, structure or addition thereto and use do not so comply, then
the zoning administrator shall notify the applicant in writing of the reasons
for the denial of the application within twenty (20) days after receipt of such
application.
         c.   Plats And Plot Plans: Every application for a zoning certificate
shall be accompanied by:
            (1)   A plat, in duplicate, of the piece or parcel of land, lot,
lots, block or blocks, or parts or portions thereof, showing the actual
dimensions of the piece or parcel, lot, lots, block, or parts or portion
thereof, according to the registered or recorded plat of such land; and
            (2)   A plot plan, in duplicate, in such form as may, from time to
time, be prescribed by the zoning administrator showing the ground area,
height, and bulk of the building or structure, the building lines in relation
to lot lines, the use to be made of the building or structure or land, and such
other information as may be required by the zoning administrator for the proper
enforcement of this chapter.
   One copy of both the plat and the plot plan shall be attached to the
application for a zoning certificate when it is submitted to the office of the
zoning administrator and shall be retained by the zoning administrator as a
public record. The required plat and plot plan may be combined in one document;
provided that in the opinion of the zoning administrator the signed document
clearly shows all the required information.
         d.   Duration Of Zoning Certificate: When the zoning administrator has
issued a zoning certificate, such certificate shall become null and void six
(6) months after the date thereof unless erection or alteration of a building
or structure is started, or the use is commenced, within such period. (Ord., 9-
17-1996)
16-9-3: OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATES:
Except in the case of a building or structure to be used exclusively for
"agriculture", as defined in this chapter, no building or structure, or
addition thereto, constructed after the effective date hereof, and no addition
to a previously existing building, shall be occupied and no land vacant on the
effective date hereof shall be used for any purpose except agriculture, until
an occupancy certificate has been issued by the office of the zoning
administrator.
No change in a use, except where said change is to an exclusively agricultural
use, shall be made until an occupancy certificate has been issued by the office
of the zoning administrator.
   A.   Application For Occupancy Certificate: Every application for a zoning
certificate shall be deemed to be an application for an occupancy certificate.
When only an occupancy certificate is required by this chapter, the application
shall be filed with the zoning administrator in such form and such manner as he
may require.
   B.   Issuance Of Occupancy Certificate: No occupancy certificate for a
building or addition thereto, constructed after the effective date hereof, or
for an addition to a previously existing building, shall be issued until
exterior construction has been completed and the premises inspected and
certified by the office of the zoning administrator to be in conformity with
the plans and specifications upon which it is located. Pending the issuance of
a regular certificate, a temporary certificate may be issued to be valid for a
period not to exceed six (6) months from its date during the completion of any
addition or during partial occupancy of the premises. An occupancy certificate
shall be given to the applicant stating the reasons why certificate cannot be
issued, not later than fourteen (14) days after the office of the zoning
administrator is notified in writing that the building or premises is ready for
occupancy. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-9-4: CERTIFICATE FOR CONTINUED OCCUPANCY OF NONCONFORMING USES:
Certificates for the continued occupancy of nonconforming uses existing at the
time of passage hereof or made nonconforming by this chapter shall state that
the use is a nonconforming one and does not conform with the provisions of this
chapter. The zoning administrator shall notify the owners of the property being
used as a nonconforming use and shall furnish said owner with a certificate of
occupancy for such nonconforming use. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-9-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Persons Who May Appeal: An appeal may be taken to the board of appeals
by any person aggrieved, or by an officer, department, board or bureau of Ogle
County affected by an order, requirement, decision or determination of the
zoning administrator relative to the interpretation of this chapter.
   B.   Requests For Reconsideration: Prior to the taking of an appeal the
aggrieved person shall file within twenty one (21) days of the decision a
request for reconsideration with the office of the zoning administrator. The
request for reconsideration shall specify the grounds for the request. Upon
receipt of a request for reconsideration, the zoning administrator shall
forthwith transcribe an answer to the aggrieved person's request. Such an
answer shall include findings of fact, conclusions, and final decision. This
document shall be signed by the zoning administrator and thereafter forwarded
to the aggrieved person.
   C.   Procedure For Appeals:
      1.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the zoning administrator certifies to the board, after the
notice of appeal has been filed with him, that by any reason of the facts
stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to
life or by a restraining order, which may be granted by the board or by a court
of record on application, on notice to the zoning administrator and due cause
shown.
      2.   The board shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing
of the appeal and give not less than ten (10) days' written notice thereof to
the interested parties and shall render a written decision on the appeal
without reasonable delay. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   D.   Decision Of Appeals: The board may affirm or reverse, wholly or partly
or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from
and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be
made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from which the
appeal is taken, and uphold any issue or direct the issuance of a permit. The
concurring vote of three (3) members of the board shall be necessary to reverse
any order, decision or determination of the zoning administrator under this
chapter. (Ord., 5-20-2003)
   E.   Records Of Appeals: The zoning administrator shall maintain complete
records of all actions of the board with respect to appeals, and shall keep the
Ogle County board informed on a current basis of the disposition of each case.
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-9-6: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Authorization: The zoning board of appeals may vary the regulations
imposed by this chapter in harmony with their general purpose and intent, but
only in the specific instances hereinafter set forth. No application for a
variation shall be acted on by the zoning board of appeals until after a public
hearing has been noticed and held in the manner prescribed in paragraph C of
this section. (Ord., 5-20-2003)
   B.   Application For Variation: Application for a variation shall be filed
with the office of the zoning administrator. Such application shall be upon
such form and accompanied by such information as may be required from time to
time by the zoning administrator and the zoning board of appeals. Upon receipt
of an application for a variation, the zoning administrator shall forward a
copy of same to the chairperson of the planning, assessment and zoning
committee of the county board and a copy to the zoning board of appeals.
   C.   Public Hearing And Notice Thereof: No more than ninety (90) days after
the filing of such application, a hearing before the zoning board of appeals
shall be held on the application of which there shall be at least fifteen (15)
days' notice of the date, time and place of such hearing published at least
once, not less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing, in one or more
newspapers with a general circulation within Ogle County. Notice of such
hearing shall contain:
      1.   The particular location of the real estate for which the variation
is requested by legal description and street address, and if no street address
then by locating such real estate with reference to any well known landmark,
highway, road, thoroughfare or intersection;
      2.   Whether or not the petitioner or applicant is acting for himself or
in the capacity of agent, alter ego, or representative of a principal, and
stating the name and address of the actual and true principal;
      3.   Whether petitioner or applicant is a corporation, and if a
corporation, the correct names and addresses of all officers and directors, and
of all stockholders or shareholders owning any interest in excess of twenty
percent (20%) of all outstanding stock of such corporation;
      4.   Whether the petitioner or applicant, or his principal if other than
applicant, is a business or entity doing business under an assumed name, and if
so, the name and residence of all true and actual owners of such business or
entity;
      5.   Whether the petitioner or applicant is a partnership, joint venture,
syndicate or an unincorporated voluntary association, and if so, the names and
addresses of all partners, joint venturers, syndicate members or members of the
unincorporated voluntary association; and
      6.   A brief statement of what the proposed variation consists.
   The published notice may be supplemented by such additional form of notice
as the board by rule may provide. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   D.   Standards For Variations:
      1.   The zoning board of appeals shall not vary the regulations of this
chapter, as authorized in paragraph A of this section, unless it shall make
findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
(Ord., 5-20-2003)
         a.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstance.
         b.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
      2.   In determining whether the strict application of the zoning
ordinance creates practical difficulties for, or imposes a particular hardship
on, an applicant for a variation, the board shall consider the extent to which
the following facts have been established by the evidence:
         a.   The particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
condition of the specific property involved would result in a particular
hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the
strict letter of the regulations were carried out;
         b.   The conditions upon which the petition for a variation are based
are unique and would not be applicable, generally, to other property within the
same zoning classification;
         c.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to obtain a higher financial return on the property;
         d.   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having an interest in the property;
         e.   The granting of the variation will not be materially detrimental
to the public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; and
         f.   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion in
the public streets, or increase the danger of fire, or endanger the public
safety, or substantially diminish or impair property values within the
neighborhood.
      3.   When the variation is requested and is a variation of ten percent
(10%) or less of the regulations authorized as to location of structure or as
to bulk requirements under such regulations, in which case no public hearing is
required and such variation may be granted by the zoning administrator. Before
such a variation may be granted, a notice of the intent to grant such variation
shall be sent by certified mail to all adjoining landowners. If any adjoining
landowner files a written objection with the zoning administrator within
fifteen (15) days of receipt of such notice, the variation shall only be
considered by the zoning board of appeals in the manner provided for in this
section.
      4.   The zoning board of appeals may impose such conditions and
restrictions upon the premises benefited by a variation as may be necessary to
comply with the standards set out in this paragraph D, to reduce or minimize
the injurious effect of such variation upon other property in the neighborhood,
and better to carry out the general intent of this chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   E.   Authorized Variations: Variations from the regulations of this chapter
may be granted only in the following instances, and in no others, except as
otherwise provided herein: (Ord., 5-20-2003)
      1.   To permit setback or yard less than the setback or yard required by
this chapter;
      2.   To permit any building or structure to exceed the height limitations
imposed by this chapter, but not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the
allowable height;
      3.   To permit the use of a lot for a use otherwise prohibited solely
because of insufficient area of the lot, but in no event shall the area of the
lot be less than eighty percent (80%) of the required lot area;
      4.   To permit the same off street parking facility to qualify as
required facilities for two (2) or more uses, provided the substantial use of
such facility by each user does not take place at approximately the same hours
of the same days of the week;
      5.   To reduce the applicable off street parking by not more than one
parking space or twenty percent (20%) of the number of spaces required,
whichever number is greater; and
      6.   To increase by not more than twenty five percent (25%) the maximum
distance that required parking spaces may be located from the use served.
Exceptionally unique circumstances, as determined by the planning and zoning
committee upon the recommendation of the zoning administrator, that would
involve instances other than or more extreme than allowed above, may be
considered as a variation from the regulations of this chapter. Exceptionally
unique circumstances must be truly unique and not similar, generally to other
circumstances that currently exist. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   F.   Action By The Zoning Board Of Appeals: The concurring vote of three (3)
members of the zoning board of appeals shall be necessary to grant a variation.
(Ord., 5-20-2003)
   G.   Duration Of Permit For Variation: No order of the zoning board of
appeals granting a variation shall be valid for a period longer than six (6)
months from the date of such order, unless the erection or alteration of a
building or structure is started, or the use is commenced, within such period.
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-9-7: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authorization: The regulations imposed and the districts created under
the authority of this chapter may be amended from time to time by ordinance,
but no such amendment shall be made without a public hearing before the board
of appeals.
   B.   Initiation Of Amendments:
      1.   Text amendments may be proposed by the planning, assessment and
zoning committee of the Ogle County board, the zoning board of appeals or the
zoning administrator.
      2.   Map amendments may be proposed by the planning, assessment and
zoning committee of the Ogle County board, the zoning board of appeals, the
zoning administrator, or any other person or persons with a legal interest in
the property subject to the proposed amendment.
   C.   Applications For Amendments: An application for an amendment to any
provision of the text of this chapter, or to any district created thereby,
shall be filed with the zoning administrator. Such application shall be upon
such form and accompanied by such information as may be required from time to
time by the zoning administrator and the zoning board of appeals.
   D.   Processing Of Applications For Amendments: Upon receipt of an
application for an amendment to the zoning ordinance (either a map amendment or
text amendment), the zoning administrator shall transmit a copy to the
chairperson of the planning, assessment and zoning committee of the county
board and a copy to the zoning board of appeals.
   E.   Public Hearings On Amendments: The zoning board of appeals shall hold a
hearing on each application for an amendment within ninety (90) days after
receipt of such application by the zoning administrator. A public hearing shall
be held in Ogle County Courthouse or other county building as designated by the
zoning administrator. Provided, however, that if a person with a legal interest
in the property subject to the application requests in writing to the zoning
administrator at least twenty one (21) days in advance of the scheduled
hearing, such hearing shall be held in the township affected by the terms of
such proposed amendment. Each hearing shall be conducted and the records of the
proceedings and hearings shall be made and preserved in such manner and
according to such procedures as the board shall prescribe from time to time by
its rules. All testimony shall be taken under oath, which shall be administered
by the member of the board presiding at the hearing.
   F.   Notice Of Public Hearings: At least fifteen (15) days' notice of the
time and place of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county. Said notice shall include such description of the
property affected by the proposed amendment as the board shall prescribe from
time to time by its rules. The published notice may be supplemented by such
additional form of notices as the board shall prescribe from time to time by
its rules. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   G.   Report By Zoning Board Of Appeals:
      1.   After the public hearing has been held, the board shall make written
findings of fact and shall submit same together with a report containing its
recommendations of the proposed amendment with the county clerk for delivery to
the county board. Where the purpose and effect of the proposed amendment is to
change the zoning classification of a particular property, the board shall make
finding based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case with
respect to the following matters:
         a.   That the proposed amendment will allow development that is
compatible with existing uses and zoning of nearby property.
         b.   That the county of Ogle and other service providers will be able
to provide adequate public facilities and services to the property (including,
but not necessarily limited to, schools, police and fire protection, roads and
highways, water supply and sewage disposal), while maintaining adequate public
facilities and levels of service to existing development.
         c.   That the proposed amendment will not result in significant
adverse impacts on other property in the vicinity of the subject site or on the
environment, including air, noise, stormwater management, wildlife and natural
resources.
         d.   That the subject property is suitable for the proposed zoning
classification.
         e.   That the proposed zoning classification is consistent with the
trend of development, if any, in the general area of the subject property
including changes, if any, which have taken place since the day the property in
question was placed in its present zoning classification.
         f.   That the proposed amendment is consistent with the public
interest and not solely for the interest of the applicant, giving due
consideration to the stated purpose and intent of the amendatory zoning
ordinance as set forth in division 1 of this chapter, the land evaluation and
site assessment (LESA) findings (if applicable), and the recommendation(s) of
the Ogle County regional planning commission with respect to the Ogle County
amendatory comprehensive plan.
      2.   In addition to the standards contained herein, the Illinois courts
have established additional factors (i.e., "the LaSalle factors") that should
be given consideration in all amendment (rezoning) cases, as follows:
         a.   The existing uses and zoning of nearby property.
         b.   The extent to which property values are diminished by the
particular zoning restrictions.
         c.   The extent to which limitation or destruction of property values
of plaintiff promotes the general health, safety and welfare.
         d.   The relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship
imposed upon plaintiff.
         e.   The suitability of the particular property for the purpose for
which it is now zoned.
         f.   The length of time that the property has been vacant as zoned
considered in the context of land development in the area in which the property
is located.
         g.   The care with which the community has undertaken to plan its land
use development.
         h.   The evidence or lack of evidence of community need for the use
proposed by the property owner. (Ord., 5-20-2003)
   H.   Action By The County Board:
      1.   The county board may:
         a.   Adopt the proposed amendment in whole or in part, with or without
modification or amendment;
         b.   Reject the proposed amendment;
         c.   Recommit the proposed amendment to the board of appeals for
further study, report and/or public hearings;
         d.   Approve requests to withdraw a hearing without a decision, with
the understanding that described properties on amendment hearings will be
subject to a one year waiting period before another request for rezoning to the
same district shall be applied for.
      2.   Amendments may be passed at a county board meeting by a simple
majority of the elected county board members unless any of the provisions of
paragraph H3 of this section requires a greater majority.
      3.   Amendments shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of three-
fourths (3/4) of all the members of the county board whenever:
         a.   A written protest against a proposed text amendment is signed by
five percent (5%) of the landowners of the county and filed with the county
clerk not less than twenty four (24) hours prior to the scheduled county board
meeting where the decision on said proposed amendment is to be made; or
         b.   A written objection by the township board of trustees of any
township located within the county which has a township plan commission which
objects to either a text or map amendment affecting an unincorporated area of
the township, is submitted to the county board, through the county clerk,
within thirty (30) days after the hearing before the board of appeals, and not
less than twenty four (24) hours prior to the scheduled county board meeting
where the decision on said proposed amendment is to be made; or
         c.   A written protest against the proposed map amendment is signed by
the owner or owners of at least twenty percent (20%) of the land sought to be
rezoned, and a copy of the written protest is served by the protestor or
protestors on the applicant for the proposed amendment and a copy upon the
applicant's attorney, if any, by certified mail at the address of such
applicant and attorney shown in the application for the proposed amendment,
proof of which shall be submitted to the county clerk and the zoning
administrator not less than twenty four (24) hours prior to the scheduled
county board meeting where the decision on said proposed amendment is to be
made; or
         d.   A written protest against the proposed map amendment is signed by
the owner or owners of land immediately touching, or immediately across a
street, alley or public right of way from, at least twenty percent (20%) of the
perimeter of the land to be rezoned, and a copy of such written protest is
served as set forth in paragraph H3c of this section; or
         e.   A written protest against the proposed amendment is filed with
the county clerk by the corporate authorities of a zoned municipality nearest
the affected property and: 1) the proposed amendment is a map amendment and the
land affected by the proposed map amendment lies within one and one-half (11/2)
miles of the limits of such municipality and a copy of such written protest is
served as set forth in paragraph H3c of this section, or 2) the proposed
amendment is a text amendment. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-9-8: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Authorization, Public Hearing, Notice And Report: Special uses which
are listed as such for a particular zoning district may be authorized by the
county board. No application for a special use permit shall be acted upon by
the county board until after a public hearing has been noticed, held,
conducted, recorded, maintained and filed in the manner prescribed for
amendments by section
16-9-7 of this division, as amended.
   B.   Application For Special Use Permit: An application for a special use
permit shall be filed with the zoning administrator upon such form and
accompanied by such information as shall be required by the zoning
administrator and the zoning board of appeals. The zoning administrator shall
process such applications in the manner prescribed for amendments by section
16-9-7 of this division, as amended. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   C.   Standards: No special use shall be recommended by the zoning board of
appeals unless said board shall find:
      1.   That the proposed special use will not be unreasonably detrimental
to the value of other property in the neighborhood in which it is to be located
or the public health, safety, morals, comfort or general welfare at large.
      2.   That the location and size of the special use, the nature and
intensity of the operation involved in or conducted in connection with it, and
the location of the site with respect to streets giving access to it are such
that the special use will not dominate the immediate neighborhood so as to
prevent development and use of neighboring property in accordance with the
applicable zoning district regulations. In determining whether the special use
will so dominate the immediate neighborhood, consideration shall be given to:
         a.   The location, nature and height of building, structures, walls
and fences on the site; and
         b.   The nature and extent of proposed landscaping and screening on
the proposed site.
      3.   That off street parking and loading areas will be provided in
accordance with the standards set forth in these regulations.
      4.   That adequate utilities, ingress/egress to the site, access roads,
drainage and other such necessary facilities have been or will be provided.
      5.   That the proposed use can be operated in a manner that is not
detrimental to the permitted developments and uses in the zoning district; can
be developed and operated in a manner that is visually compatible with the
permitted uses in the surrounding area; and is deemed essential or desirable to
preserve and promote the public health, safety and general welfare of Ogle
County.
      6.   That the proposed special use complies with all provisions of the
applicable district regulations.
In presenting any application for a special use permit, the burden of proof
shall rest with the applicant to clearly establish that the proposed special
use shall meet the above standards.
   D.   Conditions: The zoning board of appeals may recommend and the county
board may provide such conditions or restrictions upon the construction,
location and operation of a special use, but not limited to provisions for the
protection of adjacent property, the expiration of said special use after a
specified period of time, off street parking and loading, as shall be deemed
necessary to secure the general objective of this amended ordinance and to
reduce injury to the value of property in the neighborhood. All proposals and
representations made by the applicant(s) for a special use and/or said
applicant's representative(s) shall automatically become enforceable conditions
of the special use permit. (Ord., 5-20-2003)
   E.   Action By The County Board: The county board may grant or deny the
application for a special use permit in whole or in part, with or without
modification, or may recommit the application to the zoning board of appeals
for further study, report and/or public hearings.
Action by the county board on an application for a special use permit shall be
by a majority of the members of the county board present and voting. (Ord., 9-
17-1996)
   F.   Duration Of Special Use Permit:
      1.   No ordinance granting a special use permit shall be valid for a
period longer than one year from the date of such ordinance unless the erection
of a building or structure is started or the use is commenced within such a
period, unless such time period is extended through appeal to and approval by
the committee. If no appeal is made, or no extension of time is received or
granted, the permit shall immediately terminate upon expiration of the one year
period. Upon granting of a special use permit, the county board may stipulate a
period longer than one year to commence the authorized use considering the
nature of said use. (Ord., 9-2003)
      2.   Any special use permit granted after the effective date hereof shall
become null and void if the use authorized in the granting of said special use
permit is discontinued for a period of twelve (12) months or more.
   G.   Revocation Of Special Use Permit: Upon a determination of the zoning
administrator that an approved special use permit will or has become unsuitable
and/or incompatible in its location as a result of any nuisance or activity
generated by the use, the county board shall have the authority to revoke the
permit after affording the permitter the right to be heard at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the planning, assessment and zoning committee
following notification of pending revocation of said special use permit.
   H.   Transferability: All special use permits shall be approved for a
specific location, and may not be transferred to any other location by the
applicant or successor property owners. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-9-9: ENTRY AND INSPECTION OF LAND AND BUILDINGS:
The zoning administrator or his authorized representative(s) are hereby
authorized in the performance of their function to enter upon any land in the
unincorporated area of Ogle County for the purpose of making inspections,
examinations, and surveys, or to place and maintain thereon monuments, markers,
notices, signs or placards to effectuate the purpose and provisions of this
chapter. The above authorized persons shall be required to present proper
credentials upon demand when entering upon any land or structure for the
purpose of this division. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-9-10: VIOLATIONS, PENALTY, ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Offenses: A person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses
to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the zoning provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense punishable by a fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). Upon written notification that a
violation of this chapter exists, the person notified shall have fifteen (15)
days to eliminate such violation and/or comply with this chapter.
   Each week such violation or failure to comply is permitted to exist after
the expiration of such fifteen (15) day period shall constitute a separate
offense. The zoning administrator may extend such fifteen (15) day period in
such case as he may deem necessary. The decision of the zoning administrator on
a request for extension shall be reviewable on appeal by the zoning board of
appeals in accordance with provisions of section
16-9-5 of this division. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
   B.   Stop Work Order: When any building or structure is being constructed,
either without a zoning certificate or in violation of a properly issued zoning
certificate, the zoning administrator is hereby authorized to issue and post a
stop work order on the premises where the violation is taking place. (Ord., 5-
20-2003)
      1.   The stop work order shall cite the violated section(s) of the zoning
ordinance and shall be presented to the owner of the property, the owner's
agent or to the person doing the work.
      2.   Compliance with the order shall be the responsibility of the owner
of record of, the current occupant of, and the person performing the work upon
the property.
      3.   After a stop work order has been posted pursuant to this section by
the zoning administrator or his duly authorized representative, it shall be
unlawful for any person to remove or deface the posted stop work order. Removal
or defacement of the posted stop work order shall be punishable as a petty
offense as set forth in the Illinois Compiled Statutes 1 .
      4.   Any person who shall continue to work in, on or about the building
or structure shall be considered as having violated this provision and shall be
subject to the provisions of paragraph A of this section. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/5-12017.
16-9-11: FEES:
Any application for an amendment, special use permit, variation or zoning
certificate which is filed by or in behalf of the owner or owners of property
affected shall be accompanied by a fee as set by the Ogle County board by
resolution.
When construction starts before a zoning certificate is issued, the fee shall
be increased by one hundred percent (100%).
No fee shall be charged for zoning certificates for buildings or structures
used or to be used solely for agricultural purposes, as defined in this
chapter. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
No fee for an amendment, special use permit or variation shall be refunded or
partially refunded. (Ord., 5-20-2003)
No fee for a zoning certificate shall be refunded after issuance of said zoning
certificate by the zoning administrator. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-9-12: APPENDIX I; PROCEDURE FOR FILING AN APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF A
POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY (PCF):
   A.   Application; Fee:
      1.   a. In order to request siting approval for a PCF in unincorporated
Ogle County, an applicant must file an application with the zoning
administrator, with a minimum of twenty five (25) copies of the application and
the substance of the applicant's proposal showing sufficient details describing
the proposed facility to demonstrate compliance with this chapter and county
regulations, including all site plans, engineering (including calculations),
exhibits and maps, and all documents, if any, to be submitted for approval as
of the date of filing the application. At a minimum, the application shall
comply with the articles of rules and procedures. The form of said application
may be obtained from the office of the zoning administrator.
         b.   In addition to the foregoing, the applicant shall deposit with
the county at the time of filing the application for site approval of a PCF a
filing fee deposit of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00), except that a
filing fee deposit of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) is required
if said proposed facility is designed as a hazardous waste disposal site. If
the applicant elects to file an amended application for site location approval
for a PCF in accordance with this chapter, such filing shall be accompanied by
payment of a supplemental fee of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
   The Ogle County health department, zoning administrator or state's attorney
may retain consultants on behalf of the county. The consultants and the county
agencies shall then commence a study of the application. The applicant shall
cooperate fully with the consultants and the technical staff of the county in
their review of the application, including providing access to the site for
study or testing, including, but not limited to, geophysical testing.
   The applicable filing fee is intended to defray the reasonable and necessary
costs of processing the application, including, but not limited to: costs of
site inspection, clerical expenses, copying costs, space rental, zoning board
of appeals per diem, court reporter expenses, transcription costs, public
notice expenses, staff review time, committee per diems, if any, consultants
hired by the health department, zoning administrator or state's attorney (such
as qualified professional engineers, planners, appraisers, zoning counsel,
environmental counsel, etc.) (including tests, exhibits, and testimony, if any,
provided by said consultants), and other relevant costs incident to the
consideration of an application, the costs incident to preparing the record for
appeal, and the cost of representing the county on appeal in case of an appeal
of a county board decision (the "county costs").
   If there are funds remaining in the filing fee deposit after payment of the
county costs, such amount shall be refunded to the applicant upon the final
resolution of the application process (including appeals to the Illinois
pollution control board, appellate court, Illinois supreme court, federal
courts, and administrative review in the courts, if any). Should the county
incur any additional costs in excess of the applicable filing fee deposit, the
applicant shall bear any and all such additional costs and shall promptly pay
over such additional amount to the county upon request.
         c.   The application must be complete, with answers provided for each
question on the application form. The application must contain consecutively
numbered pages and it must be accompanied by all site plans, exhibits, maps and
documents required by this chapter and by the application for pollution control
facility in Ogle County.
   The date that the applicant files a complete application in proper form,
together with the applicable filing fee deposit, with the zoning administrator
shall be considered the official filing date. The application is not effective
unless it is in strict compliance with the application for pollution control
facility in Ogle County and with this chapter. If upon review of the
application within thirty (30) days of its submittal, it is determined by the
county to be incomplete and not in strict conformance with the aforesaid, the
application is deemed not filed and the filing fee (less county costs and
expenses) shall be returned to the applicant.
      2.   a. Upon receipt of a proper and complete application, and payment of
the applicable filing fee deposit, the zoning administrator shall date stamp
all the copies and immediately deliver one copy to the chairperson of the
county board, one copy to the chairperson of the planning, assessment and
zoning committee, one copy to the chairperson of the zoning board of appeals,
one copy to the chairperson of the HEW committee, one copy to the administrator
of the Ogle County health department, and one copy to each municipality located
within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the proposed facility site.
         b.   The consultants and the county agencies shall then commence a
study of the application. The applicant shall cooperate fully with the
consultants and the technical staff of the county in their review of the
application, including providing access to the site for study or testing,
including, but not limited to, geophysical testing.
      3.   A copy of the application and all related documents or other
materials on file with the zoning board of appeals shall be made available for
public inspection in the office of the zoning administrator. Members of the
public shall be allowed to obtain a copy of said application or any part
thereof upon payment of the actual cost of reproduction as outlined in the
Illinois freedom of information act 1 .
      4.   An applicant may not file an application for site location approval
which is substantially the same as a request which was disapproved, pursuant to
a finding against the applicant under any criteria set forth in this appendix
under paragraph B, "Standards For Location Of A Pollution Control Facility", of
this section and paragraph 16-9-8C of this division.
   B.   Standards For Location Of A Pollution Control Facility: In addition to
the six (6) standards contained in paragraph 16-9-8C of this division, no
special use for a pollution control facility shall be recommended by the zoning
board of appeals unless said board shall also find:
      1.   That the facility is necessary to accommodate the waste needs of the
area that it is intended to serve; and
      2.   That the facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-year
floodplain, or the site is floodproofed; and
      3.   That the plan of operations for the facility is designed to minimize
the danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills, or other operational
accidents; and
      4.   That if the facility will be treating, storing or disposing of
hazardous waste, an emergency response plan exists for the facility which
includes notification, containment and evacuation procedures to be used in case
of an accidental release; and
      5.   That if the county board has adopted a solid waste management plan,
consistent with the planning requirements of the local solid waste disposal act
2  or the solid waste planning and recycling act 3 , the facility is consistent
with that plan; and
      6.   That if the facility will be located within a regulated recharge
area, any applicable requirements specified by the pollution control board for
such areas have been met. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
2 1. 415 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
3 2. 415 ILCS 15/1 et seq.
16-9-13: APPENDIX II; AGRICULTURAL ACKNOWLEDGMENT AFFIDAVIT:
   AFFIDAVIT
State of Illinois   )
         ) SS
County of Ogle   )
RE:
                after being first duly sworn on oath depose(s) and say(s):
      1.      (I) (we) certify that (I am) (we are) applicant(s) to allow a
residential use in the AG-1 Agricultural District. (I) (we) have read the
following preamble to the AG-1 Agricultural District regulations (paragraph 16-
5-1A) contained in the Ogle County Amendatory Zoning Ordinance, and that (I)
(we) understand that there are permitted uses and named special uses allowed in
the AG-1 Agricultural District that may not be compatible with a residential
use in the AG-1 Agricultural District. (I) (we) further understand that
residential uses in the AG-1 Agricultural District are not given the same
provision of services, amenities and protection from other land uses which are
afforded to residential uses by regulations of the residence district, and that
the AG-1 Agricultural District regulations are not intended to afford such
services, amenities and protections to residential uses located there. (I) (we)
understand when living within a rural area in Ogle County, one may encounter a
number of practices that area farmers have been and likely will continue doing
in their normal farming practices carried out for agricultural purposes such as
the following:
   A.      Wide, slow moving equipment on roads or in fields at various times
of the day or night;
   B.      Noise, dust or odors from the operation of machinery, as well as
herbicides, pesticides, fertilizers and manure being applied to farmland;
   C.      Wind blown debris, such as cornstalks, soybean residue, husks or
other materials;
   D.      On occasion, airplanes applying herbicides, pesticides, or other
materials;
   E.      Odors and noise from livestock operations and/or stray livestock;
   F.      Drainage problems or short term flooding, which may occur during
heavy rainfall.
AG-1 Agricultural District, Purpose and Intent (Preamble):
The purpose and intent of the AG-1 Agricultural District is to help implement
the goals and objectives of the Ogle County Amendatory Comprehensive Plan.
The long-range goal for agricultural land use in the County is to preserve the
most valuable of natural resources, that of fertile land, for agricultural
pursuits and to protect the land best suited for farming from premature
urbanization and the encroachment of incompatible land uses which would hinder
farm operations and irretrievably deplete agricultural lands. The agricultural
district regulations are, therefore, designed to regulate the use of land and
buildings within areas of the County where soil and topographic conditions are
best adapted to the pursuit of agricultural land uses. It is essential that
scattered, indiscriminate urban development within areas best suited for
agriculture be precluded and that orderly urban development be facilitated. It
hereby declared the legislative intent and purpose of the AG-1 district that
land in the County which is productive should remain in productivity until such
time as the natural growth of municipalities precludes preservation thereof.
Other specific purposes for which this district is established include:
1.    To preserve woodlands and wetlands associated with farms which, because
of their natural physical features, are useful as water retention and
groundwater recharge areas, and as habitat for plant and animal life; and which
have an important aesthetic and scenic value which contributes to the unique
character of the agricultural district and the County as a whole.
2.    To provide a basis for land tax assessments which reflect its existing
agricultural nature and owing to these regulations, its limited use for other
purposes.
3.    To prevent the conversion of agricultural land to scattered non- farm
development which, when unmanaged, unnecessarily increases the cost of public
services to all citizens and results in the premature disinvestment in
agriculture.
      2.      If (I) (we) establish a residential use in the AG-1 Agricultural
District, such land use has no additional rights granted to it than are granted
to other uses allowed as either permitted use by special use in the AG-
1 Agricultural District.
(I) (we) further certify that (I) (we) have read and understand this affidavit,
and have been given a copy of said affidavit.
                  
Affiant               Affiant
Acknowledgment
State of Illinois   )
         ) SS
County of Ogle   )
I,             , Notary Public in and for the State and County aforesaid, do
hereby certify that                                , personally known to me to
be the same person(s) whose name(s) are subscribed to the foregoing affidavit,
appeared before me this day in person and signed and delivered the said
affidavit for the uses and purposes therein set forth as his or their free and
voluntary act.
Given under my hand and notarial seal this          day of                ,
20        .
                  
               Notary Public
                  
               My Commission Expires
(Seal)
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-9-14: APPENDIX III; MINING ACKNOWLEDGMENT AFFIDAVIT:
   AFFIDAVIT
State of Illinois   )
         ) SS
County of Ogle   )
RE:
                after being first duly sworn on oath depose(s) and say(s):
      1.      (I) (we) certify that (I am) (we are) applicant(s) for a zoning
certificate to allow a dwelling to be located within one-thousand (1,000) feet
of an existing active quarry operation as measured from the nearest property
line of the zoning lot or parcel on which quarrying can lawfully take place on
the date the Zoning Certificate for said dwelling is applied for. (I) (we)
understand when living near a quarry operation, one may encounter a number of
practices that the operator of said quarry has been and likely will continue
doing in their quarrying practices such as the following:
   A.      Blasting with explosives that may produce noise, dust odors and/or
vibrations;
   B.      The operation of machinery which may produce noise, dust odors and
vibrations.
   C.      Truck traffic which may produce noise, dust, odors and vibrations.
2.   If (I) (we) establish a residential use (dwelling) within one-thousand
(1,000) feet of an active quarry operation as measured from the nearest
property line of the zoning lot or parcel on which quarrying can lawfully take
place on the date the Zoning Certificate for said dwelling is applied for, such
land use has no additional rights granted to it than are granted to said quarry
operation.
(I) (we) further certify that (I) (we) have read and understand this affidavit,
and have been given a copy of said affidavit.
                  
Affiant               Affiant
Acknowledgment
State of Illinois   )
         ) SS
County of Ogle   )
I,             , Notary Public in and for the State and County aforesaid, do
hereby certify that                                , personally known to me to
be the same person(s) whose name(s) are subscribed to the foregoing affidavit,
appeared before me this day in person and signed and delivered the said
affidavit for the uses and purposes therein set forth as his or their free and
voluntary act.
Given under my hand and notarial seal this          day of                ,
20        .
                  
               Notary Public
                  
               My Commission Expires
(Seal)
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-9-15: APPENDIX IV; REGULATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   A.   Application: Pursuant to 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-12001.1,
this section shall apply to the facilities, as defined in paragraph C of this
section, of a telecommunications carrier;
   B.   Telecommunications Act: The provisions of this section shall not
abridge any rights created by or authority confirmed in the federal
"telecommunication act of 1996", PL 104-104.
   C.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires:
      ANTENNA: An antenna device by which radio signals are transmitted,
received, or both.
      EQUIPMENT HOUSING: A combination of one or more equipment buildings or
enclosures housing equipment that operates in conjunction with the antennas of
a facility, and the equipment itself.
      FAA: The federal aviation administration of the United States department
of transportation.
      FCC: The federal communications commission.
      FACILITY: That part of the signal distribution system used or operated by
a telecommunications carrier under a license from the FCC consisting of a
combination of improvements and equipment including: 1) one or more antennas,
2) a supporting structure and the hardware by which antennas are attached, 3)
equipment housing, and 4) ancillary equipment such as signal transmission
cables and miscellaneous hardware.
      FACILITY LOT: The zoning lot on which a facility is or will be located.
      HEIGHT OF A FACILITY: The total height of the facility's supporting
structure and any antennas that will extend above the top of the supporting
structure; however, if the supporting structure's foundation extends more than
three feet (3') above the uppermost ground level along the perimeter of the
foundation, then each full foot in excess of three feet (3') shall be counted
as an additional foot of facility height. The height of a facility's supporting
structure is to be measured from the highest point of the supporting
structure's foundation.
      HORIZONTAL SEPARATION DISTANCE: The distance measured from the center of
the base of the facility's supporting structure to the point where the ground
meets a vertical wall of a principal residential building.
      LOT LINE SETBACK DISTANCE: The distance measured from the center of the
base of the facility's supporting structure to the nearest point on the common
lot line between the facility lot and the nearest residentially zoned lot. If
there is no common lot line, the measurement shall be made to the nearest point
on the lot line of the nearest residentially zoned lot without deducting the
width of any intervening right of way.
      PRINCIPAL RESIDENTIAL BUILDING: Has its common meaning but shall not
include any building under the same ownership as the land of the facility lot.
"Principal residential building" shall not include any structure that is not
designed for human habitation.
      QUALIFYING STRUCTURE: A supporting structure that is: 1) an existing
structure, if the height of the facility, including the structure, is not more
than fifteen feet (15') higher than the structure just before the facility is
installed, or 2) a substantially similar, substantially same-location
replacement of an existing structure, if the height of the facility, including
the replacement structure, is not more than fifteen feet (15') higher than the
height of the existing structure just before the facility is installed.
      SUPPORTING STRUCTURE: A structure, whether an antenna tower or another
type of structure, that supports one or more antennas as part of a facility.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: A telecommunications carrier as defined in
the public utilities act as of January 1, 1997.
   D.   Considerations For Location: In choosing a location for a facility, a
telecommunications carrier shall consider the following:
      1.   A nonresidentially zoned lot that is not used for residential
purposes is the most desirable location.
      2.   A residentially zoned lot that is not used for residential purposes
is the second most desirable location.
      3.   A residentially zoned lot that is two (2) acres or more in size and
is used for residential purposes is the third most desirable location.
      4.   A residentially zoned lot that is less than two (2) acres in size
and is used for residential purposes is the least desirable location.
The size of the lot shall be the lot's gross area in square feet without
deduction of any unbuildable or unusable land, any roadway, or any other
easement.
   E.   Guidelines For Design: In designing a facility, a telecommunications
carrier shall consider the following guidelines:
      1.   No building or tower that is part of a facility should encroach onto
any recorded easement prohibiting the encroachment unless the grantees of the
easement have given their approval.
      2.   Lighting should be installed for security and safety purposes only.
Except with respect to lighting required by the FCC or FAA, all lighting should
be shielded so that no glare extends substantially beyond the boundaries of a
facility.
      3.   No facility should encroach onto an existing septic field. (Ord., 9-
17-1996)
      4.   Any facility located in a special flood hazard area or wetland
should meet the legal requirements for those lands (see flood damage prevention
ordinance). (Ord., 9-17-1996; amd. Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
      5.   Existing trees more than three inches (3") in diameter should be
preserved if reasonably feasible during construction. If any tree more than
three inches (3") or more in diameter is removed during construction a tree
three inches (3") or more in diameter of the same or a similar species shall be
planted as a replacement if reasonably feasible. Tree diameter shall be
measured at a point three feet (3') above ground level.
      6.   If any elevation of a facility faces an existing, adjoining
residential use within a residential zoning district, low maintenance
landscaping should be provided on or near the facility lot to provide at least
partial screening of the facility. The quantity and type of that landscaping
should be in accordance with section
16-6-22 of this chapter, except that paragraph E5 of this section shall control
over any tree related regulations imposing a greater burden.
      7.   Fencing should be installed around a facility.
      8.   Any building that is part of a facility located adjacent to a
residentially zoned lot should be designed with exterior materials and colors
that are reasonably compatible with the residential character of the area.
   F.   Requirements: The following provisions shall apply to all facilities
established after March 18, 1998:
      1.   Except as provided in this section, no yard or setback regulations
shall apply to or be required for a facility.
      2.   A facility may be located on the same zoning lot as one or more
other structures or uses without violating any ordinance or regulation that
prohibits or limits multiple structures, buildings, or uses on a zoning lot.
      3.   No minimum lot area, width, or depth shall be required for a
facility, and unless the facility is to be manned on a regular, daily basis, no
off street parking spaces shall be required for a facility. If the facility is
to be manned on a regular, daily basis, one off street parking space shall be
provided for each employee regularly at the facility. No loading facilities are
required.
      4.   No portion of a facility's supporting structure or equipment housing
shall be less than fifteen feet (15') from the front lot line of the facility
lot or less than ten feet (10') from any other lot line.
      5.   No bulk regulations or lot coverage, building coverage, or floor
area ratio limitations shall be applied to a facility or to any existing use or
structure coincident with the establishment of a facility. Except as provided
in this section, no height limits or restrictions shall apply to a facility.
      6.   Review of a zoning certificate application for a facility shall be
completed within thirty (30) days. If a decision of the county board is
required to permit the establishment of a facility, the county's review of the
application shall be simultaneous with the process leading to the county
board's decision.
      7.   The improvements and equipment comprising the facility may be wholly
or partly freestanding or wholly or partly attached to, enclosed in, or
installed in or on a structure or structures.
   G.   Additional Requirements: The following provisions shall apply to all
facilities established after March 18, 1998:
      1.   Conditions: A facility is permitted if its supporting structure is a
qualifying structure or if both of the following conditions are met:
         a.   The height of the facility shall not exceed two hundred feet
(200'), except that if a facility is located more than one and one-half (11/2)
miles from the corporate limits of any municipality with a population of twenty
five thousand (25,000) or more the height of the facility shall not exceed
three hundred fifty feet (350'); and
         b.   The horizontal separation distance to the nearest principal
residential building shall not be less than the height of the supporting
structure; except that if the supporting structure exceeds ninety nine feet
(99') in height, the horizontal separation distance to the nearest principal
residential building shall be at least one hundred feet (100') or eighty
percent (80%) of the height of the supporting structure, whichever is greater.
Compliance with this paragraph shall only be evaluated as of the time that a
zoning certificate application is submitted. If the supporting structure is not
an antenna tower this paragraph is satisfied.
      2.   Application And Review:
         a.   Any application for a "facility" as defined in paragraph C of
this section shall be made in writing to and in the form as required by the
zoning administrator;
         b.   The date of filing such an application shall be the date that a
full and complete application is received by the zoning administrator;
         c.   Within thirty (30) days from the date of filing of the
application, the zoning administrator shall review said application to
determine if the conditions of paragraph G1 of this section are met. If those
conditions are met, the zoning administrator shall issue a permit allowing the
construction of the facility in conformance with the application;
         d.   If the zoning administrator finds that the proposed facility does
not meet the criteria of paragraph G1 of this section, he shall make written
findings as to the respects that the proposed facility fails to meet those
criteria.
      3.   County Board Approval: Unless a facility is permitted under
paragraph G1 of this section, a facility can be established only after the
county board gives its approval following consideration of the provisions of
paragraph H2 of this section, but no other matters.
   H.   Decisions:
      1.   County board action on an application for a facility shall be in
accordance with the following procedures:
         a.   A public hearing shall be conducted by the zoning board of
appeals. Notice of the hearing shall be published at least fifteen (15) days
before the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the county;
         b.   The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the rules of
procedures of the zoning board of appeals. The zoning board of appeals shall
consider the matters in paragraph H2 of this section, but no other matters;
         c.   The zoning board of appeals shall make written findings of fact
as to the provisions of paragraph H2 of this section;
         d.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the zoning board of appeals
shall, upon a majority vote of the members present, make a recommendation to
the county board as to whether the application should be approved or denied;
         e.   The county board may give its approval to the application after
the hearing by the zoning board of appeals, but only by the favorable vote of a
majority of the members present at a meeting held no later than seventy five
(75) days after the submission of a complete application by the
telecommunications carrier. If the county board fails to act on the application
within seventy five (75) days after its submission, the application shall be
deemed to have been approved.
      2.   For purposes of paragraphs G3 and H1b of this section, the following
siting considerations, but no other matter, shall be considered by the zoning
board of appeals and county board:
         a.   The criteria in paragraph D of this section;
         b.   Whether a substantial adverse effect on public safety will result
from some aspect of the facility's design or proposed construction, but only if
that aspect of design or construction is modifiable by the applicant;
         c.   The benefits to be derived by the users of the services to be
provided or enhanced by the facility and whether public safety and emergency
response capabilities would benefit by the establishment of the facility;
         d.   The existing uses on adjacent and nearby properties; and
         e.   The extent to which the design of the proposed facility reflects
compliance with paragraph E of this section. (Ord., 9-17-1996)
16-9-16: ILLUSTRATIONS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8cbdc74f25c0bb23ffc3ff321ceef40f95041f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1313.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8cbdc74f25c0bb23ffc3ff321ceef40f95041f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1315.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8cbdc74f25c0bb23ffc3ff321ceef40f95041f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1317.gif]
(Ord., 9-17-1996)
DIVISION 10
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
16-10-1: Purpose
16-10-2: Definitions
16-10-3: Base Flood Elevation
16-10-4: Duties Of The Planning And Zoning Administrator
16-10-5: Development Permit
16-10-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
16-10-7: Protecting Buildings
16-10-8: Subdivision Requirements
16-10-9: Public Health And Other Standards
16-10-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
16-10-11: Variances
16-10-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
16-10-13: Penalty
16-10-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
16-10-15: Severability
16-10-1: PURPOSE:
This division, to be cited as the OGLE COUNTY, ILLINOIS, FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE, is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this
county of Ogle, Illinois, by the county statutory authority in 55 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/5-1041 and 5/5-1063 in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, as well as flood rescue and relief operations;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   E.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
16-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this division, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
16-10-3 of this division.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank,
that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes, prefabricated
buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads
and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers) and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   A.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   B.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   C.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   D.   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects;
   E.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
   F.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
   G.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
   "Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one foot
(1') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the county that are subject
to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of the Beach Creek, Black
Walnut Creek, Buffalo Creek, Clear Creek, Elkhorn Creek, Gale Creek, Kilbuck
Creek, Kishwaukee River, Kyte River and tributaries, Lake Mistake Drain and
tributaries, Leaf River, Mill Creek, (Mill) Middle Creek, Mill Creek/East Fork,
Mud Creek (Leaf River Twp.), Mud Creek (Rockvale Twp.), Otter Creek, Pine
Creek, Rock River, Ryley Ditch, Seven Mile Branch, Silver Creek, Spring Run
(Lynnville Twp.), Spring Run (Rockvale Twp.), Stillman Creek, Trimble Run, and
several unnamed streams and/or stream tributaries are generally identified on
panels 0025, 0050, 0075, 0094, 0095, 0100, 0105, 0100, 0113, 0115, 0120, 0150,
0175, 0200, 0225, 0250, 0255, 0260, 0263, 0264, 0270, 0275, 0280, 0285, 0300,
0325, 0350, 0375, 0400, 0410, 0415, 0420, 0430, 0450, 0470, 0475, 0479, 0480,
0483, 0485, 0486, 0487, 0488, 0489, 0491, 0493, 0495, 0525, 0525 of the
countywide flood insurance rate map of Ogle County, Illinois, prepared by the
federal emergency management agency and dated December 17, 2010. Floodplain
also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodway for the floodplains of Kyte River and tributaries, Lake
Mistake Drain and tributary, Mill Creek, Rock River, Ryley Ditch, South Branch
Kishwaukee River, and Stillman Creek shall be as delineated on the countywide
flood insurance rate map of Ogle County, Illinois, prepared by FEMA and dated
December 17, 2010. The floodways for each of the remaining floodplains of Ogle
County, Illinois, shall be according to the best data available from the
federal, state, or other sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section
16-10-7 of this division.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
NFIP: National flood insurance program.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other
improvement, was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of
excavation or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a
substantial improvement, actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage occurring subsequent to May 20, 2003, equals or
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes "repetitive
loss buildings" (see definition of Repetitive Loss).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to May 20, 2003, in which
the cumulative percentage of improvements:
   A.   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started; or
   B.   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
"Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
The term does not include:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations (the flood
damage prevention ordinance). A structure or other development without the
required federal, state, and/or local permits and/or elevation certification is
presumed to be in violation until such time as the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
16-10-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This division's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
   A.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Kyte River and
tributaries, Lake Mistake Drain and tributary, Mill Creek, Rock River, Ryley
Ditch, South Branch Kishwaukee River, and Stillman Creek shall be as delineated
on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide "Flood Insurance Study Of Ogle
County, Illinois", prepared by the federal emergency management agency and
dated December 17, 2010.
   B.   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH zone"
or "AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the countywide
flood insurance rate map of Ogle County, Illinois.
   C.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Ogle
County, Illinois, shall be according to the best data available from federal,
state or other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must
be financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations. (Ord. 2010-
1101, 11-16-2010)
16-10-4: DUTIES OF THE PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The planning and zoning administrator shall be designated the floodplain
administrator, shall be responsible for the general administration of this
division and shall ensure that all development activities within the
floodplains under the jurisdiction of Ogle County (those floodplains that are
within the boundaries of the county of Ogle but outside the boundaries of any
incorporated city or village) meet the requirements of this division.
Specifically, the planning and zoning administrator shall:
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with section
16-10-5 of this division;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
16-10-6 of this division;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
16-10-7 of this division are met and maintain a record of the "as built"
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
16-10-8 of this division;
   E.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
16-10-9 of this division;
   F.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
16-10-11 of this division are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   G.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
16-10-13 of this division as necessary to ensure compliance with this division;
   H.   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   I.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   J.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   K.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this division;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this division;
   M.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this division and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   N.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
16-10-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Ogle County planning and zoning administrator. The
planning and zoning administrator shall not issue a development permit if the
proposed development does not meet the requirements of this division.
   A.   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
16-10-7 of this division; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the planning
and zoning administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base
flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey
data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been
filled after the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map is not in
the floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this division.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood
insurance rate map, is subject to the provisions of this division.
   The planning and zoning administrator shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance
rate map identification.
   The planning and zoning administrator shall be responsible for obtaining
from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits,
approvals or permit not required letters that may be required for this type of
activity. The planning and zoning administrator shall not issue a permit unless
all other federal, state, and local permits have been obtained. (Ord. 2010-
1101, 11-16-2010)
16-10-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Except as provided in paragraph B of this section, no development shall
be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the Illinois department of natural resources, office of water
resources statewide permit number 2;
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 3;
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 4;
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit
number 5;
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 6;
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7;
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8;
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9;
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10;
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11;
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12;
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 13;
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   B.   Other development activities not listed in paragraph A of this section
may be permitted only if:
      1.   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
16-10-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of section
16-10-6 of this division, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to May 20, 2003. If substantially
improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the flood
protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to May 20, 2003. If substantially
damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      6.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
16-10-2 of this division.
   B.   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent landfill in accordance
with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and
         e.   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters.
         b.   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         c.   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base
flood elevation.
         d.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            (1)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            (3)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space, or
            (4)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade.
         c.   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.
         d.   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation's wall must not exceed four
feet (4') at any point.
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event.
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
         g.   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   C.   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this paragraph C.
   D.   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with paragraph B of this section, and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois mobile
home tiedown act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code 870.
   E.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
paragraph D of this section unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck.
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      5.   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet.
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation.
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model.
      10.   The vehicle must either:
         a.   Be entirely supported by jacks; or
         b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   F.   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or less
than five hundred (500) square feet.
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
16-10-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The Ogle County board shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, planned unit developments,
and additions to manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet the damage
prevention and building protection standards of sections
16-10-6 and 16-10-7 of this division. Any proposal for such development shall
include the following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation.
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable.
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 . Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public
grounds shall be located and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and
utilize natural streams and channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall
be included within parks or other public grounds. (Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
16-10-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
16-10-6 and 16-10-7 of this division the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
16-10-7 of this division.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   B.   All other activities defined as "development" shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 2010-1101,
11-16-2010)
16-10-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained. In addition, the county of Ogle shall notify adjacent communities
in writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the
alteration or relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
16-10-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this division place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Ogle County board for a
variance. The planning and zoning administrator shall review the applicant's
request for a variance and shall submit a recommendation to the Ogle County
board. The Ogle County board may attach such conditions to granting of a
variance as it deems necessary to further the intent of this division.
   A.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that all
of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP, and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   B.   The planning and zoning administrator shall notify an applicant in
writing that a variance from the requirements of the building protection
standards of section
16-10-7 of this division that would lessen the degree of protection to a
building will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   C.   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
16-10-7 of this division which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
"historic structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
16-10-6 and 16-10-7 of this division subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
16-10-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this division is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This division does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This division does not create liability on the part of
the county of Ogle or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this division or any administrative decision
made lawfully hereunder. (Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
16-10-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the SFHA or failure to comply
with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this division. Upon due investigation the planning and
zoning administrator may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of
this division exists. The planning and zoning administrator shall notify the
owner in writing of such violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The county may make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this division or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this division.
      2.   Any person who violates this division shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each week during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      4.   The county of Ogle may record a notice of violation on the title to
the property.
   B.   The planning and zoning administrator shall inform the owner that any
such violation is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and
therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
   C.   The planning and zoning administrator is authorized to issue an order
requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall
be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work
order. The stop work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
   D.   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
16-10-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This division repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Ogle County
board to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance program
including: Ogle County, Illinois, special flood hazard areas ordinance adopted
December 22, 1987, and amended May 20, 2003; however, this division does not
repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in
the national flood insurance program, nor does this division repeal, abrogate,
or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this
division and other ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict
or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
16-10-15: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions and sections of this division shall be deemed separable and the
invalidity of any portion of this division shall not affect the validity of the
remainder. (Ord. 2010-1101, 11-16-2010)
 
