VILLAGE OF OLD MILL CREEK, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-4, passed 8-1-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Old Mill Creek, Illinois shall
be designated as the Code of Old Mill Creek and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. Lake County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Lake County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of Old Mill Creek, Illinois.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the village.
POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in the employ of a
village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be
appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail, and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   VILLAGE. The Village of Old Mill Creek, Illinois.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
Statutory reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The corporate seal of the village shall be as follows: a circular disc with
the words “Village of Mill Creek, Lake County, Illinois” on the periphery
thereof and “Village Clerk Corporate Seal” in the center.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
Village President
   
30.01   Election; term of office
   
30.02   Duties
   
30.03   Appointment of officers
   
30.04   Designation of officers’ duties
   
30.05   Bond; oath; salary
Board of Trustees
   
30.20   Elections; duties
   
30.21   Oath; salary
   
30.22   Quorum
   
30.23   Committees
   
30.24   Rules of order
   
30.25   Public participation at Village Board meetings
   
30.26   Remote attendance at Village Board meetings
 
   
30.99   Penalty
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
§ 30.01 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Village President shall be elected for a term of four years and shall
serve until his or her successor is elected and qualified as is provided by
statute.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 30.02 DUTIES.
   The Village President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the village
and shall perform all such duties as may be required of him or her by statute
or ordinance. He or she shall have supervision over all the executive officers
and employees of the village and shall have the power and authority to inspect
all books and records pertaining to village affairs and kept by any officer or
employee of the village at any reasonable time.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 30.03 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Board
of Trustees, all officers of the village whose appointment or election is not
otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring in appointive offices shall be
filled in the same manner.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 30.04 DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointive officer of the village, this dispute shall be settled by the
President after consultation with the Village Attorney, and the President shall
have the power to delegate to any office any duty which is to be performed when
no specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 30.05 BOND; OATH; SALARY.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the President shall
give a bond with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office, in the sum of
$3,000. He or she shall take the oath of office prescribed by statute and shall
receive such compensation as may be set from time to time by the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.20 ELECTIONS; DUTIES.
   The Board of Trustees, consisting of six members, shall be elected to office
for a term of four years as is provided by statute; provided, however, that the
Trustees elected in April of 1959 shall, by lot, determine three of their
number to hold office for terms of two years and three of their number to hold
office for terms of four years. The Board shall be the legislative department
of the village government and shall perform such duties and have such powers as
may be delegated to it by statute.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 30.21 OATH; SALARY.
   The members of the Board of Trustees shall take the oath of office
prescribed by statute and shall receive such compensation as may from time to
time be provided by ordinance.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 30.22 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business, but no
ordinance shall be passed except upon a favorable vote of a majority of the
elected members, as is provided by statute.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 30.23 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Standing committees. Standing committees of the Board of Trustees may
be determined by the President, by and with the consent and approval of the
Board of Trustees, as may hereinafter be designated:
      (1)   Committee on Finance and Purchasing;
      (2)   Committee on Streets, Sidewalks and Alleys;
      (3)   Committee on Police and Fire;
      (4)   Committee on Ordinance Rules and Licenses; and
      (5)   Committee at Large.
   (B)   Special committees. The President shall appoint such special
committees as he or she may deem necessary or as may be directed by the Board
of Trustees.
   (C)   Membership on committees.
      (1)   The President shall appoint the members of all standing and special
committees in the absence of specific direction by the Board of Trustees and
shall designate the Chairperson thereof.
      (2)   Every committee of the Board of Trustees shall consist of three
members, including the Chairperson, unless the Board otherwise directs.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 30.24 RULES OF ORDER.
   (A)   Order of business. The order of business at meetings of the Board of
Trustees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting or meetings;
      (3)   Reading and approval of bills against the village;
      (4)   Reports of village officers;
      (5)   Reports of standing committees;
      (6)   Reports of special committees;
      (7)   Unfinished business;
      (8)   Presentation of communications or petitions; and
      (9)   New business.
   (B)   Rescinding action. No vote or action of the Board of Trustees shall be
rescinded at any special meeting unless there be present at such special
meeting as many members of the Board as were present at the meeting when such
vote or action was taken, as is provided by statute.
   (C)   Resolutions. Any resolution submitted to the Board of Trustees shall
be reduced to writing before being voted upon at the request of any two members
of the Board.
   (D)   Addressing meetings. No person other than the President or a member of
the Board shall address the Board of Trustees at any special or regular meeting
except upon the consent of a majority of the members present.
   (E)   Suspension of rules. The rules of order, other than those prescribed
by statute, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the
members present at any meeting.
   (F)   Robert’s Rules of Order. The most recently revised sets of Robert’s
Rules of Order shall govern the deliberations of the Board of Trustees except
when in conflict with any of the foregoing rules.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 30.25 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AT VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   Members of the public who are in attendance in person at Board
meetings shall be permitted to address the Village Board during the portion of
each regular meeting designated as “public participation” and to comment on any
subject matter concerning the village.
   (B)   Members of the public who are in attendance in person at a special
Board meeting shall be permitted to address the Village Board during the
portion of each special meeting designated as “public participation,” but
comments from the public shall be limited in scope to only those matters of
business then under immediate consideration by the President and Board of
Trustees at each special meeting.
   (C)   Speakers are required to state their name for the record before making
any comments.
   (D)   Each member of the public addressing the Village Board shall be
limited to a three-minute period of time to voice comments. At the discretion
of the Village Board, the person providing public comments may be allowed to
speak beyond the allotted three minutes, or the President may direct the person
to submit further comments, in writing, to the President for distribution to
the Trustees. Comments provided in writing should be sent to: Village of Old
Mill Creek, Attention: President, 19020 Old Town Ct., Old Mill Creek IL 60046.
   (E)   To ensure that all interested parties have an opportunity to speak,
members of the public are asked to be brief and limit their comments to one
topic. Public comments should not be repetitious.
   (F)   Public participation is generally not a question and answer period. It
provides individuals with an opportunity to express their comments regarding
any subject matter concerning the village. However, the Village Board reserves
the right to immediately address the comments provided at the public meeting.
   (G)   Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive
comments at a Board meeting and are expected to comply with the rules. All
comments must be civil in nature. Any person who engages in threatening,
slanderous or disorderly behavior when addressing the Board shall be deemed out
of order by the President, and his or her time to address the Board at said
meeting shall end. An individual who violates these rules may be removed from
the meeting at the discretion of the President.
   (H)   Experts, professionals and other individuals who are invited to speak
before the Board because the Board has need of their expertise or ability to
provide requested information are not limited by the provisions of this
section. If approved by the Board, such individuals may appear remotely to
provide requested information or to provide answers to questions posed by the
Board.
(Ord. 2023-3, passed 5-8-2023; Ord. 2023-04, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 30.26 REMOTE ATTENDANCE AT VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS.
   A member of Board of Trustees shall be provided the opportunity to attend an
open and closed meeting or only one of such meetings from a remote location if
the member meets the following conditions and a majority of a quorum of the
Village Board votes to approve the remote attendance.
   (A)   The member must notify the Village Clerk at least 24 hours before the
meeting unless advance notice is impractical.
   (B)   The member must meet one of four reasons described herein why he or
she is unable to physically attend the meeting, including either:
      (1)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or disability;
      (2)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the village;
      (3)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency; or
      (4)   The member cannot attend because of an unexpected childcare
obligation.
   (C)   A quorum of the Village Board must be physically present at the
location of the meeting as posted in the meeting notice.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 5-8-2023; Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk
   
31.01   Election; term of office
   
31.02   Bond; oath; salary
   
31.03   Duties
Appointed Officials
   
31.15   Village Attorney
   
31.16   Village Marshal
CLERK
§ 31.01 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Village Clerk shall be elected and serve for a term of four years until
his or her successor is elected and qualified, as is provided by statute.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 31.02 BOND; OATH; SALARY.
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the Village
Clerk shall execute a bond in such amount and with such sureties as may be
required by the Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of
his or her duties.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall take an oath of office as prescribed by
statute and shall receive such compensation as may from time to time be
provided by ordinance.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 31.03 DUTIES.
   (A)   Signatures. The Village Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of
the village and all licenses, permits and other documents as shall require this
formality.
   (B)   Money collected. The Village Clerk shall turn over all money received
by him or her on behalf of the village at the end of the month to the Village
Treasurer; and with such money, he or she shall give a statement as to the
source thereof.
   (C)   Accounts. The Village Clerk shall keep accounts showing all money
received by him or her, and the source and disposition thereof, and such other
accounts as may be required by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   Records. In addition to the record of ordinances and other records
which the Village Clerk is required by statute to keep, the Clerk shall keep a
register of all licenses and permits issued, and the payments thereon; a record
showing all of the officers and regular employees of the village; and such
other records as may be required by the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   Seal. The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of the Village Seal and
shall affix its impression on documents whenever this is required.
   (F)   Documents. The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of all documents
belonging to the village which are not assigned to the custody of some other
officer.
   (G)   Indices. The Village Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to
all documents and records kept by him or her, so that ready access thereto and
use thereof may be had.
   (H)   Additional duties. In addition to the duties herein provided, the
Village Clerk shall perform such other duties and functions as may be required
by statute or ordinance, he or she shall act as Village Collector unless and
until a separate Village Collector is appointed as provided by law.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Creation of office; appointment. There is created the office of
Village Attorney, an executive office of the village. The Attorney shall be
appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Suits and actions. The Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all
suits or actions at law or equity to which the village may be a party or in
which it may be interested, or which may be brought against or by any officer
of the village on the behalf of the municipality, or in the capacity of such
person as an officer of the village, whenever directed to do so by the Board.
   (C)   Judgments. It shall be the duty of the Attorney to see to the full
enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the
village; and of all similar interlocutory orders.
   (D)   Advice. The Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the village and
shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the village whenever
requested to do so by the Village President or any member of the Board of
Trustees. Upon request by the President or the Board of Trustees, he or she
shall reduce any such opinion to writing; and, upon request by the Board, he or
she shall render an opinion to any officer of the village with regard to his or
her duties or powers.
   (E)   Special assessments. It shall be the duty of the Attorney to see to
the completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation
proceedings.
   (F)   Ordinances and documents. It shall be the duty of the Attorney to
draft or supervise the phraseology or any contracts, leases or other documents
or instruments to which the village may be a party; and, upon request by the
Board of Trustees, to draft ordinances covering any subjects within the powers
of the village.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 31.16 VILLAGE MARSHAL.
   (A)   Creation of office; appointment; salary. There is hereby created the
office of Village Marshal. He or she shall be appointed by the President and by
and with the consent of the Board of Trustees. The Village Marshal shall give a
bond in such sum as the Board may require with sureties to be approved by the
President and the Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance
of his or her duties, and he or she shall receive such compensation as may be
provided from time to time by ordinance.
   (B)   General duties. The Village Marshal shall be a conservator of the
peace and shall have charge of the police force of the village. He or she shall
arrest or cause to be arrested any person who violates any ordinances of the
village or law of the state or the United States and shall hold such person for
investigation or for proper trial.
   (C)   Ordinances. It shall be the duty of the Village Marshal to see that
all the ordinances of the village are enforced, and he or she shall report to
the President and Board of Trustees any violations of which he or she shall
have notice or knowledge.
   (D)   Writs. The Village Marshal shall be empowered to serve writs in cases
arising before the police magistrate or justices of the peace as provided by
statute.
   (E)   Deputies. In case of emergency or when the public peace and safety
require it, the President may appoint any number of deputy marshals who shall
have full powers as conservators of the peace, and such appointment may be
written or oral. The term of office of such deputy marshal shall not exceed
beyond the next regular meeting of the Board of Trustees following his or her
appointment unless the Board of Trustees approves the appointment. Deputy
marshals shall receive such compensation as may be provided by the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Plan Commission
   
32.02   Public Safety Commission
   
32.03   Parks and Recreation Commission
§ 32.01 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation; appointment. There is hereby created the Plan Commission for
the village. The Plan Commission shall consist of seven members to be appointed
by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Term of office. Four members shall be appointed for a term of four
years and three members shall be appointed for a term of two years. Upon the
completion of the term of office of the members so appointed for two years,
their successors shall be appointed for terms of four years. The term of office
of each member of the Plan Commission shall end upon April 30 in the year in
which his or her term of office expires. All members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation.
   (C)   Procedure. Immediately following their appointment, the members of the
Plan Commission shall meet, organize, elect such officers as they may deem
necessary and adopt and later change or alter rules and regulations of the
organization and procedure consistent with village ordinances and statutes. The
Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings which shall be open at
all times to public inspector. The Commission shall also file an annual report
with the Board of Trustees setting forth its transactions and recommendations.
   (D)   Duties and powers. The Plan Commission shall have the following duties
and powers:
      (1)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees a comprehensive
plan of public improvements looking to the present and future development and
growth of the village. Such a plan, after its adoption by the Board of
Trustees, will be known as the “Official Plan of Old Mill Creek.” Such plan
shall include reasonable requirements in reference to streets, alleys and
public grounds within the corporate limits and in contiguous territory outside
of and distant not more than one and one-half miles from such limits, and not
included in any municipality, such requirements to be effective whenever such
limits shall be subdivided after the adoption of such plan;
      (2)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees from time to time
such changes in the plan as may be deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees or
the Plan Commission;
      (3)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees from time to time
plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of such
official plan;
      (4)   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the
direction of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to
further the making of such improvements and generally to promote the
realization of the official plan;
      (5)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities or the general purpose of public understanding; and
      (6)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this
section as may be conferred by the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   Land subdivision or re-subdivision. Following the adoption of the
official plan in the manner prescribed in this section, no map or plan of any
subdivision or re-subdivision presented for records affecting land within the
corporate limits of the village or in contiguous territory outside of and
distant not more than one and one-half miles from such limits and not included
in any municipality shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the
subdivision thereof shall provide for streets, alleys and public ground in
conformity with any requirements applicable thereto of such official plan.
   (F)   Expenditures. The Commission may at the discretion of the Board of
Trustees employ necessary help, whose salaries, wages and other necessary
expenses shall be provided from the public funds. If said Plan Commission shall
deem it advisable to secure technical advice or service, it may be done upon
authority from the Board of Trustees and appropriations by the Board of
Trustees therefor.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 32.02 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION.
   (A)   There shall be and there is hereby created a Public Safety Commission
of three members who shall serve by and at the appointment of the President and
with the advice and consent of the Village Board at the pleasure of the Village
President. The Board shall, from its number, elect a Chairperson who shall be
responsible for the convening of such meetings as are deemed necessary, the
investigating and reporting to the Village Board of Trustees on such matters as
may be pertinent to the public safety and welfare. A principal duty of said
Commission with respect to its function regarding the public safety shall be
the ascertainment of traffic safety laws as may be indicated and regulated by
and for the Village Board.
   (B)   Said Commission shall make an annual report to the Village Board at
the May meeting of the Village Board of Trustees and at such other times as may
be necessary in the performance of its duties.
(Ord. 63-0-5, passed 7-6-1963)
§ 32.03 PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a park and recreation system for the village.
   (B)   The corporate authorities shall have power to maintain and equip parks
and recreation facilities, programs thereof and for that purpose may employ
directors, supervisors and recreation superintendents or such other officers or
employees as they may deem proper and, in general, shall possess all of the
powers and be subject to all of the responsibilities of the corporate
authorities under Article 11, division 95 of the State Municipal Code (65 ILCS
5/11-95-1 et seq.).
   (C)   There is hereby created a Park and Recreation Advisory Commission for
the purpose of rendering advice and recommendation to the President and the
Board of Trustees of the village in regard to recreation and related park
matters.
   (D)   There shall be three members of the Park and Recreation Advisory
Commission appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Board
of Trustees to serve for a term of three years. If a vacancy occurs in the
office of any Commission member, the President shall appoint, with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees, a successor to serve the unexpired term.
   (E)   The President shall designate one of the members of the Parks and
Recreation Advisory Commission to be its Chairperson and other such officers as
may be necessary for the efficient working of the Commission. No member shall
serve for more than two consecutive years as Chairperson.
   (F)   The Park and Recreation Advisory Commission shall serve as an advisory
body to the Village Board in regard to the development and operation of
recreation programs, recreation centers and park-related facilities.
(Ord. 2009-0-3, passed 4-13-2009; Ord. 2009-0-7, passed 8-10-2009)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Officers and employees generally
   
33.02   Fiscal year
   
33.03   Damage to village property
   
33.04   Elections
   
33.05   Public records; Freedom of Information Act
   
33.06   Solicitation and acceptance of gifts prohibited
   
33.07   Employee ethics
   
33.08   Recording closed sessions
   
33.09   Wages for persons employed in public works
   
33.10   All-Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan adopted
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Application. The provisions of this section shall apply alike to all
officers of the village, regardless of the time of the creation of the office
or of the time of the appointment of the officer.
   (B)   Appointments. The President shall make appointments to fill all
appointive offices by end with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Term of office. Every appointive officer or employee of the village
shall hold office for the term of one year or until his or her successor is
appointed and qualified unless it is otherwise provided by ordinance.
   (D)   Assignment of duties. The Village President shall have the power to
assign to any officer any duty which is not assigned by ordinance to some other
specific officer; and he or she shall determine disputes or questions relating
to the respective powers or duties of officers after consultation with the
Village Attorney.
   (E)   Records. All records kept by any officer of the village shall be open
to inspection by the President or any member of the Board of Trustees at all
reasonable times, whether or not such records are to be kept by statute or
ordinance.
   (F)   Moneys received. Every officer of the village shall, at least once
each month, turn over all money received by him or her in his or her official
capacity to the Clerk with a statement showing the source from which the same
was received.
   (G)   Oath. Every officer of the village shall, before entering upon his or
her duties, take the oath prescribed by statute.
   (H)   Bond. Every officer shall, if required by the Board of Trustees,
before entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such
amount as may be determined by the Board of Trustees and with such sureties as
it may approve, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his
or her office or position.
   (I)   Salaries. All officers and employees of the village shall receive such
salary as may be provided from time to time by ordinance.
   (J)   Arrests. The Village President, members of the Board of Trustees and
the deputy marshal are hereby declared to be conservators of the peace with
such powers to make arrests as are given to the conservators of the peace by
statute.
   (K)   Termination of office. Every, officer of the village, upon termination
of his or her office, for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his or her
successor all books and records which may be the property of the village; and,
if no successor has been appointed within one week after termination of office,
such property shall be delivered either to the Clerk or the Treasurer.
   (L)   Impersonation. It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate
without lawful authority any village officer or employee.
   (M)   Interfering with officers. It shall be unlawful to interfere with or
hinder any officer or employee of the village while engaged in the duties of
his or her office.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.02 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village shall begin on May 1 and end on the April 1
of the year following.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 33.03 DAMAGE TO VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure, deface or interfere with any property
belonging to the village without authority from the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.04 ELECTIONS.
   Elections for village officers shall be held as is provided by statute and
at the time prescribed by statute.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
§ 33.05 PUBLIC RECORDS; FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT.
   The village adopts the rules and regulations under the Freedom of
Information Act (5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2005-0-5, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 33.06 SOLICITATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Adoption of State Gift Ban Act.
      (1)   The State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 425 et seq.) is hereby adopted as
required by § 83 of the Act (5 ILCS 425/83).
      (2)   The solicitation or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be
solicited or accepted under the Act is prohibited by any elected or appointed
official or any employee of the village. All non-salaried appointed or elected
officials are exempted from the Act and the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Ethics Officer. To the extent authorized by law and to the extent
required by § 35 of the Act (5 ILCS 425/35), the Village President is hereby
authorized to appoint an ethics officer for the village. The ethics officer’s
duties shall be as provided in § 35 of the Act (5 ILCS 425/35).
   (C)   State Legislative Ethics Commission; complaints. All complaints for
violations of the Act and this section shall be filed with the State
Legislative Ethics Commission (created by § 45(a)(6) of the Act.)
   (D)   Future amendments to State Gift Ban Act. Any amendment to the State
Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.) that becomes effective after the passage of
the ordinance codified in this section shall be incorporated into this section
by reference and shall be applicable to the solicitation and acceptance of
gifts. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption
by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this section by reference
without formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
   (E)   Further declaration of unconstitutionality of State Gift Ban Act.
      (1)   If the State Supreme Court declares the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS
425/1 et seq.) unconstitutional in its entirety, then this section shall be
repealed as of the date that the Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not
subject to any further appeals or rehearings. This section shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village if
the Act is found unconstitutional by the State Supreme Court.
      (2)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the State Gift Ban Act
(5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.) unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of
the remainder of the Act or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the
remainder of the Act as adopted by this section shall remain in full force and
effect; however, the part of this section relating to the part of the Act found
unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without further action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 1999-0-3, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 33.07 EMPLOYEE ETHICS.
   (A)   The regulations of § 5-15 (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and Article 10 (5 ILCS
430/10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5
ILCS 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section) are
hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees
of the village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited from being
solicited or accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the
village, is hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall
be defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (I)   If the State Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the State
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the Corporate Authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the State Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 2004-0-1, passed 5-10-2004) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.08 RECORDING CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The village shall keep a verbatim record of all closed or
executive session meetings of the corporate authorities of the village or any
subsidiary public body as defined by the State Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1.
The verbatim record shall be in the form of an audio or video recording as
determined by the corporate authorities.
   (B)   Responsibility for recording closed sessions and maintaining
recordings. The Village Clerk or his or her designee shall be responsible for
arranging for the recording of such closed or executive sessions. In the
absence of the Village Clerk or his or her designee, the meeting Chair will
arrange for the audio or video recording of the closed or executive session of
the Village Board. Each subsidiary public body of the village shall designate
an individual who will be responsible for the recording of any and all closed
or executive sessions of the subsidiary body and for providing the Village
Clerk with a copy of such recording. The Village Clerk, or his or her designee,
shall securely maintain the verbatim recordings of all closed sessions of the
corporate authorities of the village and all subsidiary public bodies of the
village.
   (C)   Closed session minutes. In addition to the recordings of the closed
and executive session as addressed in this section, the village will keep
minutes of all closed meetings in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1.
   (D)   Procedure for recording. At the beginning of each closed session,
those present shall identify themselves by voice for the audio recording. If
the meeting is videotaped, those present shall individually appear on camera
and identify themselves by voice at the beginning of the closed session. The
meeting Chair shall also announce the times the closed session commences and
ends at the appropriate points on the recording.
   (E)   Back-up equipment/procedure for equipment malfunction. The village
will maintain sufficient tapes, batteries and equipment for the village to
comply with this section. The Village Clerk or his or her designee will
periodically check the equipment to confirm that it is functioning. In the
event that anyone present at a closed session determines that the equipment is
not functioning properly, the closed session will be temporarily suspended to
attempt to correct any malfunction. In the event that an equipment malfunction
cannot be corrected immediately, the closed session will terminate until such
time as the closed session may proceed with a functioning recording device.
   (F)   Procedure for review of closed session minutes and recordings. At one
meeting at least every six months, the agenda shall include the item: “Review
of the minutes and recordings of all closed sessions that have not yet been
released for public review, and determination of which minutes, if any, may be
released.” Minutes shall be reviewed in closed session and shall not be
released unless the corporate authorities of the village find that it is no
longer necessary to protect the public interest or the privacy of an individual
by keeping them confidential. As to any minutes not released, the corporate
authorities shall find that the need for confidentiality still exists as to
those minutes. Minutes of closed sessions shall be kept indefinitely.
Recordings shall be reviewed in a mariner appropriate to the purpose for which
they were intended.
   (G)   Maintenance and public release of recordings and access to tapes. The
audio or video tape recordings of closed sessions shall be maintained for 18
months after the closed session and shall not be released to the public unless
such release is required by a court order or specifically authorized for
release by a vote of the Village Board. Members of the corporate authorities
may listen to the closed session recordings in the presence of the Village
Clerk or his or her designee. Copies of such tapes will not be made or provided
to anyone unless specifically authorized by vote of the Village Board.
   (H)   Procedure for destruction of recordings. The Village Clerk or his or
her designee is hereby authorized to destroy the audio and video recordings of
those closed sessions for which:
      (1)   The corporate authorities of the village have approved the minutes
of the closed sessions as to accurate content, regardless of whether the
minutes have been released for public review;
      (2)   More than 18 months have elapsed since the date of the closed
session;
      (3)   There is no court order requiring the preservation of such
recording; and
      (4)   The corporate authorities of the village have not passed a motion
requiring the preservation of the verbatim recording of that meeting.
(Ord. 2004-0-04, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 33.09 WAGES FOR PERSONS EMPLOYED IN PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by the Prevailing Wage Act (830 ILCS
130), as amended, the general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for
laborers, mechanics and other workers engaged in construction of public works
coming under the jurisdiction of the village is hereby ascertained to be the
same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction work in the county area
as determined by the State Department of Labor as of June of the current year,
a copy of that determination being attached hereto and incorporated herein by
reference. As required by said Act, any and all revisions of the prevailing
rate of wages by the State Department of Labor shall supersede the Department’s
June determination and apply to any and all public works construction
undertaken by the village. The definition of any terms appearing in this
section which are also used in aforesaid Act shall be the same as in said Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the village to the extent required by the
aforesaid Act.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection
by any interested party in the main office of the village this determination or
any revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination or
of the current revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect
shall be attached to all contract specifications.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any
employer, and to any association of employers, and to any person or association
of employees who have filed his, her or their names and addresses, requesting
copies of any determination stating the particular rates and the particular
class of workers whose wages will be affected by such rates.
(Ord. 2009-0-8, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 33.10 ALL-NATURAL HAZARDS MITIGATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The 2022 Lake County All-Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan is hereby adopted
as the official plan of the village.
(Ord. 2024-, passed - -2024)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
33.01 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100 for each offense.
   (C)    Any person violating the provisions of §
33.03 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(Ord. 59-0-1, passed 1-20-1959)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   [Reserved]
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adopting the State Vehicle Code
   
70.02   Prohibiting the use of Jake brakes
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 ADOPTING THE STATE VEHICLE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption of State Vehicle Code. The State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 1-100
et seq., as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby incorporated into
this code and adopted by reference.
   (B)   Citations. In lieu of, or addition to, reference to any section of
said Code or any other village code, ordinance or regulation, any officer of
the village issuing a citation may issue it pursuant to any section of the
State Vehicle Code. All such citations shall be issued in the name of the
village and shall refer to the numbered sections in the State Vehicle Code and
shall also state that such citation is a violation of a village code, ordinance
or regulation.
(Ord. 2001-0-5, passed 6-11-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 PROHIBITING THE USE OF JAKE BRAKES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any driver of any motor vehicle to use Jake
brakes or any other equipment which creates an excessive noise on any public
road within the village limits.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EXCESSIVE NOISE. Noise which is clearly audible to persons with medically
normal hearing at a distance of 75 feet from any motor vehicle or at a level
greater than 86 decibels.
(Ord. 2005-0-9, passed 11-14-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §
70.02 shall be fined $100 for each offense.
(Ord. 2005-0-9, passed 11-14-2005)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking restrictions generally
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PARKING RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a crosswalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (5)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway from moving traffic to less than 18 feet.
   (B)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon those designated streets in the village.
(Ord. 2006-0-6, passed 6-12-2006) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person charged with a parking violation of §
71.01 or the State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq., may avoid
prosecution for violating any of such sections by settling and compromising the
charge for such illegal parking by paying to the village the sum of not less
than $25 within ten days of the time such alleged offense was committed.
Thereafter, the fine shall be not less than $50.
(Ord. 2006-0-6, passed 6-12-2006)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Snowmobiles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OPERATE. To control the operation of a snowmobile.
      OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual control of a snowmobile.
      SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
in a natural terrain steered by wheels, skis or runners.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   On private property of another without the express permission to do
so by the owner or occupant of said property;
      (2)   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual noise so
as to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons;
      (3)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
safety of any person or the property of any other person; or
      (4)   Within the right-of-way of any public street within the village.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to rent any
land for use by a person operating a snowmobile, or to permit such person to
use any land for money or other valuable consideration, or to operate or permit
the operation of snowmobiles for commercial purposes within the village.
   (D)   Each person operating a snowmobile shall strictly observe all traffic
signs and signals and all other traffic rules and regulations applicable
thereto and shall obey the orders and directions of any police officer of the
village authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Ord. 71-0-41, passed 1-18-1972) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
72.01 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 71-0-41, passed 1-18-1972)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Traffic signs
      
II.   Weight limits
SCHEDULE I. TRAFFIC SIGNS.
 
Location                Sign      Penalty                 Ord.
The intersection of
Crawford Road and Kelly Stop sign Fine not exceeding $500 Ord. passed 9-20-1977
Road
 
SCHEDULE II. WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any portion of Kelley
Road or Crawford Road in the village when the gross weight on the surface of
the road through any axle of such vehicle exceeds four tons.
   (B)   Suitable signs indicating the foregoing limitations shall be posted.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
schedule shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 71-0-40, passed 12-21-1971)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   Parking shall not be permitted along U.S. Route 45 from Country Place
Road to North of Independence Boulevard within the village limits of the
village.
   (B)   The Village Board will prohibit future parking at such locations on or
immediately adjacent to U.S. Route 45, as may be determined and directed by the
state to be necessary, to ensure the free flow of traffic and safety to the
motoring public.
   (C)   The Deputy Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to attach a
copy of this schedule to the agreement dated February 12, 2018, by and between
the state and the village.
(Ord. 2018-0-2, passed 2-12-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Animals running at large
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No owner of any animal shall permit the animal to run at large in any
part of the village at any time. Any animal off the premises of the owner and
not under the control of the owner or a member of his or her immediate family
over ten years of age, by leash or halter, shall be considered at large.
   (B)   Any animal found at large in any street of the village contrary to the
provisions of this section shall be impounded according to the directions of
the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 63-0-8, passed 11-19-1963) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of §
90.01 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200 for each offense.
Each day upon which any such offense occurs shall be deemed a separate offense
for the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 63-0-8, passed 11-19-1963)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Littering
   
91.02   Junked motor vehicles
   
91.03   Excessive noise
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful to throw, cast or deposit any empty beer cans, bottles,
containers, paper or other refuse or debris upon the roads, streets or rights-
of-way within the limits of the village or upon any private property without
authority of the owner thereof.
(Ord. 66-0-22, passed 4-19-1966) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any person within the city or
within one-half mile of the city limits to store, keep or maintain outside of a
closed building, any junk, parts, machinery or equipment not in an operable
condition, or motor vehicle not in an operable condition; provided, however,
that this section shall not apply to a properly licensed junkyard which is in
full compliance with all of the ordinances of the city governing the same.
(Ord. 1999-0-9, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   Excessive noise prohibited. It is unlawful for any driver or person in
possession of a motor vehicle on any public road or in any public park to
create any type of excessive electronically amplified noise.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTRONICALLY AMPLIFIED EQUIPMENT. Any electrically or battery-powered
device which has the capacity to broadcast sound, including, but not limited
to, speakers, stereos, radios, CD players, tape players, wire recorders,
musical instrument amplifiers, PA systems and bullhorns.
      EXCESSIVE NOISE. Noise which is clearly audible to persons with medically
normal hearing at a distance of 75 feet from any motor vehicle or at a level
greater than 86 decibels.
(Ord. 2002-0-2, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
91.01 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
91.02 shall be fined in an amount not less than $50 nor more than $1,000 for
each separate offense. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate §
91.03 shall be fined $75 for each offense.
(Ord. 66-0-22, passed 4-19-1966; Ord. 1999-0-9, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 2002-0-
2, passed 7-8-2002)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATION TAX
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS AND GAMES OF CHANCE
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATION TAX
Section
   
110.01   Municipal retailers’ occupation tax
§ 110.01 MUNICIPAL RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in this village at the rate of
0.5% of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business
while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of the
Revised Cities and Villages Act (65 ILCS 20).
   (B)   Every person engaged in such business in the village shall file, on or
before the fifteenth day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act (35 ILCS
120), as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(Ord. 65-0-21, passed 10-19-1965)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS AND GAMES OF CHANCE
Section
Amusements
   
111.01   Application
   
111.02   Licenses
   
111.03   Street shows
   
111.04   Orderly crowd
   
111.05   Inspections
   
111.06   Indecent shows
   
111.07   Riots
   
111.08   Smoking
   
111.09   Signs
   
111.10   Exit lights
Raffles
   
111.25   Purpose
   
111.26   Definitions
   
111.27   Raffle licenses
   
111.28   Limitations
   
111.29   Application
   
111.30   Persons ineligible
   
111.31   Conduct of raffles
   
111.32   Bond
   
111.33   Records
AMUSEMENTS
§ 111.01 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter, except as to licensing and fees, shall
apply to all public shows, theatricals, circuses and other amusements in the
village whether specifically licensed in this subchapter or not.
(Ord. 83-0-12, passed 4-19-1983)
§ 111.02 LICENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement which is open
to the public and for admittance to which a fee is charged, without having
first secured a license therefor.
   (B)   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Clerk and shall
comply with all of the general provisions of the ordinances relating to such
application. For such licenses, the following fees shall be paid.
 
Carnivals                                $50 per day
Exhibitions of inanimate objects         $5 per day
Other amusements                         $5 per day
Seasonal shows, ongoing on a daily basis $100 per season
 
(Ord. 83-0-12, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 STREET SHOWS.
   No permit shall be granted or given for any carnival, exhibition, show or
other amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such place
that the only main accommodation for the public or the audience will be in a
public place, except on the order of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 83-0-12, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 ORDERLY CROWD.
   (A)   The audience of any amusement show or theatrical must be orderly and
quiet at all times, and it shall be unlawful for any person attending such
amusement, show or theatrical to create a disturbance in the audience.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to permit or gather such a crowd to witness any
such amusement or show as to create a dangerous condition because of fire or
other risks.
(Ord. 83-0-12, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the collective duty of the corporate authorities of the village
to see that every exhibition, amusement, theatrical or other public show or
amusement is inspected by the duly appointed village permit inspector, and to
ensure conformity with the provisions concerning such amusements.
(Ord. 83-0-12, passed 4-19-1983)
§ 111.06 INDECENT SHOWS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to present,
exhibit, conduct or take part in any indecent show, theatrical, play, motion
picture, exhibition or other form of public amusement or show.
(Ord. 83-0-12, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 RIOTS.
   It shall be unlawful to present any public amusement or show of any kind
which tends to or is calculated to cause or promote any riot or disturbance.
(Ord. 83-0-12, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08 SMOKING.
   It shall be unlawful to smoke or carry a lighted cigar, cigarette or pipe on
or beneath the stage or in a dressing room of any building used as an assembly
hall with seating accommodations for more than 100 persons or in which
theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures or other entertainments are offered,
presented, operated or exhibited.
(Ord. 83-0-12, passed 4-19-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 SIGNS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of such premises or of the occupant in
charge to provide and place printed signs on which the words “No Smoking” shall
appear in letters at least four inches high, in conspicuous places, at least
two signs being on the stage or in the wings thereof and one in each dressing
room.
(Ord. 83-0-12, passed 4-19-1983)
§ 111.10 EXIT LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant in charge of any building or
hall used as an assembly hall with accommodations for 100 persons or more in
which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures and other entertainment is
offered, operated or presented to provide and place a sign, on which the word
“Exit” shall appear in letters at least six inches high, over every door or
other opening from such hall to every means of egress therefrom, and a light
shall be provided with a red glove and placed at or over such sign, which light
shall be kept burning during the entire period that the hall is open to the
public and until the audience has left the hall.
(Ord. 83-0-12, passed 4-19-1983)
RAFFLES
§ 111.25 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to license and regulate raffles occurring
within the village.
(Ord. 2004-0-7, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 111.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in § 28-2(b) of the Criminal Code of
2012, conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter, in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; and
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
(Ord. 2004-0-7, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 111.27 RAFFLE LICENSES.
   (A)   License required. No person, firm, corporation or other legal entity
shall conduct raffles or chances without having first obtained a license.
   (B)   Fee. Unless waived by the Village Board for good cause shown, a $50
fee shall be paid to the village for each raffle license.
   (C)   Duration. Each license shall be valid for one raffle or for a
specified number of raffles to be conducted during a specified period not to
exceed 180 days and may be suspended or revoked for any violation of this
chapter or the Raffles and Poker Runs Act, 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
   (D)   Licensing. Licensing shall be issued only to the village, bona fide
religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans’
organizations that operate without profit to their members and which have been
in existence continuously for a period of five years immediately before making
application for a license and which have had during that entire five-year
period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects, or to a
nonprofit fund-raising organization that the licensing authority determines is
organized for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an
identified individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial
hardship as the result of an illness, disability, accident or disaster.
(Ord. 2004-0-7, passed 9-13-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.28 LIMITATIONS.
   All raffles shall be subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed $300,000.
   (B)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $150,000.
   (C)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed $2,500.
   (D)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
shall not exceed 180 days.
(Ord. 2004-0-7, passed 9-13-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.29 APPLICATION.
   The license and application for license must specify the area or areas in
which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time period during which
raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time of determination of winning
chances and the location or locations at which winning chances will be
determined.
(Ord. 2004-0-7, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 111.30 PERSONS INELIGIBLE.
   The following are ineligible for any license under this subchapter:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (C)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   (D)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (A)
through (C) above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest or in which
such a person is active or employed;
   (E)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A) through
(C) above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not; and
   (F)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A) through
(C) above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle, as
defined in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-0-7, passed 9-13-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.31 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
by the village.
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   (F)   A person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
raffles or chances only with the permission of a parent or guardian. A person
under the age of 18 years may be within the area where winning chances are
being determined only when accompanied by his or her parent or guardian.
(Ord. 2004-0-7, passed 9-13-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.32 BOND.
   All operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision
of a single raffles manager designated by the organization. The manager shall
give a fidelity bond in an amount not less than $10,000 in favor of the
organization conditioned upon his or her honesty in the performance of his or
her duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in
writing to the village not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation. The
village may waive this bond requirement by including a waiver provision in the
license issued to an organization; provided, that a license containing such
waiver provision shall be granted only by unanimous vote of the members of the
licensed organization.
(Ord. 2004-0-7, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 111.33 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service, or other reason for the deduction, and the
recipient.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization,
pursuant to license therefor issued by the State Department of Revenue, and
placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have separate records of
its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report promptly
after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, and to the licensing
local unit of government, its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from
raffles and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in this
section.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years,
and organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 2004-0-7, passed 9-13-2004)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.001   Definitions
   
112.002   Selling or manufacturing
   
112.003   Drinking in public
   
112.004   Giveaway of alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
112.005   State laws
   
112.006   Temporary liquor licenses
   
112.007   Prohibitions relating to minors and alcohol
Local Liquor Control Commission
   
112.020   Village President designated Commissioner
   
112.021   Powers, functions and duties
   
112.022   Compensation
Licenses
   
112.035   License required
   
112.036   Local liquor licenses and fees
   
112.037   Term; prorating fee
   
112.038   Number of licenses
   
112.039   Records
   
112.040   Transfer of licenses
   
112.041   Change of location
   
112.042   Location restrictions
   
112.043   Revocation or suspension
   
112.044   Application for liquor license
   
112.045   Ineligibility for liquor license
   
112.046   Conditions for issuance, maintenance and renewal of liquor license
Establishments
   
112.060   Consumption on the premises
   
112.061   Sanitary conditions
Sales
   
112.075   Sales of alcoholic liquor
   
112.076   Closing hours
   
112.077   Alcoholic liquor in public places and motor vehicles
Enforcement
   
112.090   Violation determined by Commissioner
   
112.091   Violation determined by court
   
112.092   Complaints
   
112.093   Hearings
   
112.094   Appeals
 
   
112.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, including synthetic
ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and every liquid or solid,
patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable of
being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this chapter
shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5%, or less, of alcohol by
volume.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A private residence, several rooms of which are set aside
for overnight guests whose paid accommodations include breakfast.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes among
other things beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of the state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of regular dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building
or space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests, and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that such CLUB files with the Village President at
the time of its application for a license under this chapter two copies of a
list of names and residences of its members and similarly files within ten days
of election of any additional member his or her name and address; and, provided
further, that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting, and that no member or any officer, agent or employee of the CLUB is
paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other
compensation any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to
the CLUB or the members of the CLUB or its guests introduced by members beyond
the amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by
the members or by its board of directors or other governing body out of the
general revenue of the CLUB.
   COMMISSIONER. The Village Liquor Control Commissioner designated in §§
112.020 through
112.022 as well as any committee or other agency appointed by the Commissioner.
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guest, such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same buildings in
connection therewith and such building or buildings, structure or structures,
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity.
   LICENSED PREMISES or PREMISES. The actual physical location described in a
local liquor license at which liquor will be served under the retail liquor
license once issued and may include either indoor or outdoor dining areas,
except that no outdoor area shall be deemed part of the premises unless
expressly identified in the local liquor license. The terms PUBLIC DINING ROOM
and PUBLIC AND PRIVATE DINING ROOMS shall be included in this definition of
PREMISES.
   LICENSEE. A person holding a liquor license.
   LICENSEE, AGENT OF. Any owner, partner, director, officer, manager, employee
or authorized agent of a licensee but only while engaged in the business of
such licensee or present on the licensed premises of such licensee.
   LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. The State Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
   LIQUOR CONTROL LAWS. This chapter and all other village ordinances,
resolutions, regulations and rules relating to alcoholic liquor; the Liquor
Control Act and all regulations issued thereunder; all federal, state and local
laws imposing or pertaining to fees and taxes relating to alcoholic liquor; and
all other federal and state legislation, regulations and rules applicable to
the sale or use of alcoholic liquor within the village.
   LOCAL LIQUOR LICENSE. A license issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 21 years.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogs head
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, corporation or entity.
   RESTAURANT. A public place primarily kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public for the serving of meals to patrons seated at tables or
booths, and, where complete meals are actually and regularly served, such space
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAIL SALE, SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Sales for use and
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, with or without consideration, and includes all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   STATE LIQUOR LICENSE. A license issued by the State Liquor Control
Commission pursuant to the provisions of the Liquor Control Act.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcoholic liquor, as defined above.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.002 SELLING OR MANUFACTURING.
   (A)   Peddling. It shall be unlawful to peddle or otherwise sell at
locations not specified in a duly authorized local liquor license alcoholic
liquor in the village.
   (B)   Manufacture prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage
in the business of manufacturing alcoholic liquor in the village without the
approval of the Village Board. Said approval or denial shall be based on the
nature, scope and size of the manufacturing and any impact it may have on the
village.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.003 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverages of
any type in any public place or upon any public street, alley or thoroughfare.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.004 GIVEAWAY OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to giveaway or otherwise dispense
free of charge, by the drink or in any other manner, within the village, any
alcoholic beverage except that giving away by a Class A, B or B-1 licensee,
without charge, of wine in small and limited amounts for tasting purposes only,
immediately prior and incidental to, the sale of wine in the original package
for consumption off the premises shall not be considered a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Such giveaway, however, shall be subject to the following conditions
and limitations:
      (1)   The tastings shall be attended by and supervised by a full-time
employee and only in a designated area on the licensed premises as approved by
the Commissioner and designated in the license;
      (2)   The actual amount of wine tasted may not exceed an ounce; and
      (3)   The sample shall be served in a container which shall be disposed
of following sample. Furthermore, it is hereby declared unlawful to advertise
the availability of “tasting” through any public media or other means of
communication other than on the premises itself. Further, the provisions of
this section prohibiting the giveaway or other dispensing of alcoholic
beverages shall not apply to Class F-1 and Class F-2 licenses.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.005 STATE LAWS.
   (A)   State law adopted. All of the provisions, including all words and
phrases, of the Liquor Control Act (235 ILCS 5) and the rules and regulations
issued by the State Liquor Control Commission pertaining to local control of
alcoholic liquor, as the same may be amended from time to time, are hereby
incorporated into and declared to be a part of this chapter as if expressly set
forth herein.
   (B)   Compliance with all regulations required. Nothing in this chapter
shall excuse or release any person from compliance with the requirements of any
other applicable federal, state or local code, ordinance, regulation or rule.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.006 TEMPORARY LIQUOR LICENSES.
   (A)   Sales for consumption on premises restricted. Any person not having a
temporary license shall not sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold or permit the same to be consumed on the
premises where sold.
   (B)   Temporary license. The temporary license shall authorize the licensee
to sell and offer for sale at retail at the place specified in such application
for license only, alcoholic liquors for use and consumption, but not for
resale, in any form for the day specified in the license. The fee for such
temporary license shall be $50 per day. Such temporary license shall not be
issued to the same organization on more than three occasions during each fiscal
year of the village. The temporary license shall be available only to not-for-
profit organizations registered with the state.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   Application for a temporary license required by this section shall
be made to the Village Liquor Control Commissioner in writing on the official
application for the sale of alcoholic beverages as provided by the village,
signed by a duly authorized agent of the applicant, verified by oath or
affidavit and accompanied by a non-refundable filing fee of $250 and shall
contain the following information and statements:
         (a)   The name and address of the organization applicant including the
names and addresses of all officers and directors of the organization;
         (b)   The date and specific time the event is being held and a brief
description of the nature of the event;
         (c)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws
of the state or the United States or any ordinance of the village in the
conduct of the event and use of the license; and
         (d)   The state retailer’s occupation tax number currently assigned to
the organization and a statement that the organization is not currently
delinquent in payments to the State Department of Revenue, the village or any
other governmental entity.
      (2)   The applicant, by submitting the application for the purpose of
receiving a temporary license, agrees to cooperate with the Liquor Control
Commissioner, or his or her designated representative, by providing any
information concerning books and records of the organization seeking the
issuance of the temporary license.
   (D)   Insurance. No license shall be issued until evidence of insurance
coverage for dram shop liability at the required statutory maximum limits set
forth in § 6-21 of the State Liquor Control Act (235 ILCS 5), as amended from
time to time, has been provided to the Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (E)   Application form.
 
VILLAGE OF OLD MILL CREEK
APPLICATION FOR TEMPORARY LIQUOR LICENSE TO BE FILED WITH
THE LIQUOR COMMISSIONER
40870 HUNT CLUB ROAD
OLD MILL CREEK, ILLINOIS 60083
(847) 838-0275
 
1.   Name, address and phone number of the organization applicant:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 
2.   Address of premises for which this temporary license applies:
                                                                                                                                                                         
 
3.   If premises are leased, give name, address and phone number of landlord:
                                                                                                                                               
 
4.   Names and addresses of all officers and directors of the organization:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
5.   Date(s) and Time(s) the event is being held:                                                                                                                                               
 
6.   Brief description of the nature of the event and alcoholic beverage(s) to be served:
                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                      
 
7.   Give the state retailer’s number currently assigned to the organization:
                                                                    
 
 
8.   No license shall be issued until evidence of insurance coverage for dram shop liability at the required statutory maximum limits set forth in § 6-21 of State Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/6-21) as amended from time to time has been provided to the Liquor Control Commissioner.
                                                                      (initial)
 
9.   Is the organization currently delinquent in payments to the State Department of Revenue, the village, or any other governmental entity?                                                          
10.   Is the not-for-profit organization registered with the State of Illinois?                               
 
The temporary license shall authorize the licensee to sell and offer for sale at retail at the place specified in this application for license only, alcoholic liquors for use and consumption, but not for resale, in any form for the day(s) specified in the license. The fee for such temporary license shall be $50 per day. Such temporary license shall not be issued to the same organization on more than three occasions dining each fiscal year of the village. This application must be accompanied by a non-refundable filing fee of $250.
 
   AFFIDAVIT
I, the undersigned, the applicant or authorized representative thereof swear or affirm that the matters stated in the foregoing application are true and correct, are made upon my personal knowledge and information, are made for the purpose of requesting the Commissioner to issue the temporary license herein applied for and that the applicant is qualified and eligible to obtain the license applied for. I further swear or affirm that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the State of Illinois or the United States or any ordinance of the village in the conduct of the event and use of the license. The organization applicant, by submitting the application for the purpose of receiving a temporary license, agrees to cooperate with the Liquor Control Commissioner or his or her designated representative by providing any information concerning books and records of the organization seeking the issuance of the temporary license.
 
                                                          
Signature of Applicant Authorized Agent
 
Subscribed and sworn to before me this               day of               , A.D.               
 
                    
Notary Public
 
(NOTARY SEAL)
 
 
For Office Use Only:
License Number:               Date Issued:               Expires:               
Checked by:               Approved by:               Date:               Fee               Rec’d:               
 
(Ord. 2003-0-8, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 112.007 PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO MINORS AND ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Sales to minors.
      (1)   Sales prohibited. No licensee, and no agent of any licensee, shall
sell, give or deliver any alcoholic liquor to any minor.
      (2)   Responsibility of owner. No licensee shall permit any minor to
remain in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the
room or place where such licensed premises are located; provided that this
division (A)(2) shall not apply if the minor is accompanied by his or her
parent or guardian, or to any licensed premises which derives its principal
business from the sale of services commodities other than alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Secondary transfer prohibited. No person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such
alcoholic liquor to any minor; provided, however, that this division (A)(3)
shall not prohibit the consumption of alcoholic liquor by a minor in the
performance of a religious ceremony or in the home of such minor pursuant to
the approval and supervision of the parent or legal guardian of such minor.
      (4)   Identification required. If a licensee or any agent of a licensee
believes or has reason to believe that a sale or delivery or alcoholic liquor
is prohibited because the prospective recipient may be a minor, then the
licensee or licensee’s agent shall, before making such sale or delivery, demand
adequate written evidence of age.
         (a)   For the purpose of preventing a violation of this section, any
licensee and any agent of a licensee may refuse to see alcoholic liquor to any
individual who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of identity and
age.
         (b)   For the purpose of this section, ADEQUATE WRITTEN EVIDENCE OF
IDENTITY AND AGE means a document issued by a federal, state, county or
municipal government, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator’s
license, a registration certificate issued under the federal Selective Service
Act (235 ILCS 5) or an identification card issued to a member of the armed
forces.
         (c)   Proof that the licensee, or an agent of the licensee, demanded,
was shown and reasonably relied on adequate written evidence of identity and
age in any transaction forbidden by this section is an affirmative defense in
any proceeding for the suspension or revocation of any local liquor license
based on the occurrence of such forbidden transaction. However, it shall not be
an affirmative defense if the licensee, or an agent of the licensee, accepted
any written evidence of identity or age knowing it to be false or fraudulent.
         (d)   Every licensee shall display at all times in a prominent and
conspicuous place within the licensed premises, a printed card supplied by the
Village Clerk reading substantially as follows.
 
WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER 21
YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UP TO $750 UNDER THE ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF OLD
MILL CREEK IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR IF YOU MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE FOR
THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
 
   (B)   Consumption, purchase and possession prohibited. No minor shall
consume alcoholic liquor, purchase alcoholic liquor, accept a gift of alcoholic
liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his or her possession; provided, however,
that this division (B) shall not prohibit the consumption of alcoholic liquor
by a minor in the performance of a religious ceremony or service or in a home
pursuant to the direct supervision and approval of the parent or legal guardian
of such minor.
   (C)   False identification prohibited.
      (1)   Misrepresentation prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any minor to
misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any minor to present or offer, to
any licensee or to the agent of any licensee, any written, printed or
photostatic evidence of identity or age that is false, fraudulent or not his or
her own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase or
otherwise procuring or attempting to procure alcoholic liquor. It shall be
unlawful for any minor to have in his or her possession any false or fraudulent
written, printed or photostatic evidence of identity or age.
      (2)   Transfer and alteration of identification prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any minor to transfer, alter or deface any written, printed or
photostatic evidence of identity or age or to obtain any written, printed or
photostatic evidence of identity or age by means of false or fraudulent
information.
      (3)   Conveyance of false identification prohibited. It shall be unlawful
for any person to sell, give or furnish to any other person any false or
fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence of identity or age. It
shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish to any other person
any evidence of identity or age with the knowledge or intent that such evidence
will be used to circumvent the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Handling prohibited. It shall be unlawful for a person to tend any bar
in a licensed premises when such person is prohibited by law or ordinance from
purchasing, accepting, having in possession or consuming alcoholic liquors.
   (E)   Parental responsibility. It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal
guardian intentionally or knowingly to permit any minor for whom the parent or
guardian is responsible to violate any provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Prohibited gatherings. It shall be unlawful for any person
intentionally or knowingly to permit a gathering of two or more persons at a
residence that he or she occupies where any one or more of such persons so
gathered is a minor if:
      (1)   The person occupying the residence knows that any such minor is in
possession of or is consuming any alcoholic liquor; and
      (2)   The possession or consumption of the alcoholic liquor by such minor
is not otherwise permitted by this chapter.
   (G)   Use of rented room for consumption by minors. No person shall rent a
hotel or motel room from the proprietor or agent thereof for the purpose of or
with the knowledge that such room shall be used for the consumption of
alcoholic liquor by minors.
   (H)   Proof of consumption or possession. There shall be a rebuttal
presumption that a minor has consumed or possessed alcoholic liquor in
violation of this section where either:
      (1)   The presence of alcoholic liquor in a minor’s body is shown by a
measurement of blood alcohol concentration; or
      (2)   The arresting officer:
         (a)   Observes one or more recognized indicia of the presence of
alcoholic liquor in a minor’s body, including, without limitation, an odor of
alcoholic liquor on the minor’s breath or impaired motor coordination or
speech; and
         (b)   Offers the minor an opportunity to submit to a blood, urine or
breath test to determine if alcoholic liquor is present in the minor’s body and
the minor refuses to take such a test.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION
§ 112.020 VILLAGE PRESIDENT DESIGNATED COMMISSIONER.
   The Village President is hereby designated as the Village Liquor Control
Commissioner.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.021 POWERS, FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   The Commissioner shall have the following powers, functions and duties:
   (A)   To administer within the village all liquor laws;
   (B)   To appoint a person or persons to assist him or her in the exercise of
the powers and the performance of the duties herein provided;
   (C)   To conduct hearings as provided in this chapter for the purpose of
fulfilling any of the enumerated powers, functions and duties of the
Commissioner; to hear testimony and take proof of information in the
performance of his or her duties; and for such purposes to issue subpoenas
effective in any part of the state;
   (D)   To examine or cause to be examined, under oath, any licensee and any
applicant for a local liquor license or for renewal thereof and to examine or
cause to be examined the books and records of any such licensee or applicant;
   (E)   To receive fees for local liquor licenses and deliver the same
forthwith to the Village Treasurer;
   (F)   To require two sets of fingerprints of any applicant for a local
liquor license or, in the reasonable discretion of the Commissioner, for a
renewal thereof, one for the village files and one to deliver to the State
Department of State Police, and for purposes of obtaining such fingerprints to
require the applicant to pay such fee as may be required by the State
Department of State Police;
   (G)   To grant or renew local liquor licenses in accordance with the
provisions of the liquor laws;
   (H)   To deny any application for the issuance or renewal of a local liquor
license to any applicant or premises that the Commissioner has determined to be
ineligible therefor in accordance with the provisions of the liquor laws;
   (I)   To keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all local liquor
licenses and to furnish the Village Clerk with a copy thereof; and, on the
issuance or renewal of any local liquor license, or the revocation or
suspension of any existing local liquor license, to give notice of such action
to the Village Clerk within three days of such action;
   (J)   To lawfully enter, or to authorize any law enforcement officer to
lawfully enter, at any time, any licensed premises to determine whether any of
the provisions of the liquor laws have been or are being violated and at the
time of such entry to examine such licensed premises in connection with such
determination;
   (K)   To receive complaints from citizens that any of the provisions of the
liquor laws have been or are being violated and to act on such complaints in
the manner provided in this chapter and the other liquor laws;
   (L)   To examine any licensee on whom notice of revocation or suspension has
been served;
   (M)   To suspend for cause for not more than 30 days any local liquor
license, to revoke for cause any local liquor license and to levy fines against
any licensee, all in accordance with the liquor laws;
   (N)   To report whenever requested by the Village Board all of his or her
acts taken to enforce the liquor laws and, all acts taken in regard to the
collection of local liquor license fees; and
   (O)   To notify the Secretary of State when a club incorporated under the
State General Not-For-Profit Corporation Act (805 ILCS 105) or a foreign
corporation functioning as a club in the state under a certificate of authority
issued under the act has violated the Liquor Control Act (235 ILCS 5) by
selling or offering for sale at retail alcoholic liquor without a retailer’s
license.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.022 COMPENSATION.
   The Commissioner shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
LICENSES
§ 112.035 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Local and state liquor licenses required. It shall be unlawful for any
person not having a current, valid local liquor license and a current, valid
state liquor license to sell or offer for sale in the village any alcoholic
liquor.
   (B)   Sale in violation of license prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
licensee to sell, offer for sale or dispense in the village any alcoholic
liquor except in the manner authorized by, and in compliance with, the terms
and restrictions of the liquor laws and such licensee’s local liquor license.
   (C)   Display of license. Every licensee shall cause his or her current
local liquor license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place
on the licensed premises.
   (D)   Exception to license requirement. Notwithstanding any provisions in
this chapter to the contrary, the occupant of any dwelling unit does not
require a license under this chapter to sell, otherwise transfer or provide
liquor to others without consideration.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.036 LOCAL LIQUOR LICENSES AND FEES.
   (A)   Every person engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the
village shall pay an annual license fee. Such licenses shall be divided into
classes, which classes and the license fees shall be as follows.
      (1)   Class A license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in original package not for consumption on the premises where
sold. The annual fee for such a license shall be $1,300. The Commissioner, upon
application of the holder of a Class A license, may authorize such licensee to
giveaway wine for tasting purposes only on the licensed premises subject to all
of the terms and conditions set out in §
112.004. The annual fee for such tasting privileges shall be $135.
      (2)   Class A-1 license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
beer and wine in original package not for consumption on the premises where
sold. The annual fee for such license shall be $250.
      (3)   Class A-2 license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
wine in original package not for consumption on the premises where sold. The
annual fee for such license shall be $250.
      (4)   Class B license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by a golf course for consumption either on or off the
premises. The annual fee for such license shall be $1,050. The annual fee for
such tasting privileges shall be $135.
      (5)   Class B-1 license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
beer and wine by a golf course for consumption either on or off the premises.
The annual fee for such license shall be $425. The annual fee for such tasting
privileges shall be $135.
      (6)   Class C license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
beer and wine for consumption on the premises of a restaurant only and served
indoors as part of a meal. The annual fee for such license shall be $950.
      (7)   Class C-1 license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises of a restaurant only and
served indoors as part of a meal. The annual fee for such license shall be
$1,050.
      (8)   Class C-2 license. This license shall authorize the sale of beer
and wine for consumption on the premises of a restaurant only and served
indoors, with or without a meal. The annual fee for such license is $1,150.
      (9)   Class C-3 license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises of a restaurant only and
served indoors, with or without a meal. The annual fee for such license shall
be $1,250.
      (10)   Class C-4 license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
beer and wine for consumption on the premises of a restaurant only and served
indoors, with or without a meal, or for consumption off-premises when sold as
part of a carry-out meal. The annual fee for such license shall be $1,350.
      (11)   Class C-5 license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises of a restaurant only and
served indoors, with or without a meal, or for consumption off-premises when
sold as part of a carry-out meal. The annual fee for such license shall be
$1,450.
      (12)   Class C-6 license. This license shall permit the holder of any C,
C-2 or C-4 license to provide beer and wine service outdoors, but only upon
such terms and conditions as the local Liquor Commissioner may establish for
the licensed premises. The annual fee for such license shall be $350.
      (13)   Class C-7 license. This license shall permit the holder of any C-
1, C-3 or C-5 license to provide alcoholic liquor service outdoors, but only
upon such terms and conditions as the local Liquor Commissioner may establish
for the licensed premises. The annual fee for such license shall be $350.
      (14)   Class D license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by a club to its members and their guests for consumption on
club premises. The annual fee for such a license shall be $1,200.
      (15)   Class E license. This license shall authorize the retail sale by
restaurants and hotels having seating accommodations at tables or booths for
100 or more persons of alcoholic liquor by the drink for consumption on the
premises by customers of the restaurant or hotel, such sales shall be with and
incidental to the ordering and serving of a complete meal to such customer,
seated at a table or booth, in the public dining room of the restaurant or
hotel, but only between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m.; and which shall
also authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption in the
public and private rooms of the restaurant or hotel for privately sponsored
parties, lunches, dinners, receptions and similar gatherings where attendance
is limited to invited guests, but only between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 12:
00 a.m. The annual fee for such license shall be $1,450.
      (16)   Class E-1 license. This license shall authorize the retail sale by
restaurants, hotels and bed and breakfasts having seating accommodations at
tables or booths for less than 100 persons of alcoholic liquor by the drink for
consumption on the premises by customers of the restaurant, hotel or bed and
breakfast. Such sales shall be exclusively with and incidental to the ordering
and serving of a complete meal to such customer seated at a table or booth in
the public dining room of the restaurant, but only between the hours of 11:00
a.m. and 12:00 a.m.; and which shall also authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in for consumption in public and private dining rooms of the
restaurant for privately sponsored parties, lunches, dinners, receptions and
similar gatherings where attendance is limited to invited guests, but only
between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. The annual fee for such license
shall be the lesser of $1,150 or $50 per guest room.
      (17)   Class F license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by the drink to its members by a religious, charitable,
fraternal or other not-for-profit organization, other than clubs as defined
herein, which holds periodic meetings of its members. All applications for a
Class F license shall state the names and addresses of all the officers of the
organization and the address of the premises upon which the sale of alcoholic
liquor will be made. The annual fee for such license shall be $50.
      (18)   Class F-1 license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by the drink by religious, charitable, fraternal or other not-
for-profit organizations, for periods not in excess of 48 hours. All
applications for a Class F-1 license shall state the names and addresses of all
officers of the organization, the address of the premises on which the sale of
alcoholic liquor will be made, the estimated attendance upon the premises
during the period of the license and whether such sales will be made to the
public or only to bona fide members of the organization for which the license
is requested. Satisfactory evidence from the owner of the premises shall be
furnished showing the authorization to the applicant for the use of said
premises, including the sale of alcoholic liquor for the period for which the
license is requested. The fee for a Class F-1 license shall be $50 for each 24-
hour period or any part thereof.
      (19)   Class F-2 license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by the drink on village-owned property or on school grounds,
by members and guests of religious, charitable, fraternal or other not-for-
profit organizations, for periods not in excess of 48 hours. All applications
for a Class F-1 license shall state the names and addresses of all officers of
the organization, the address of the premises on which the sale of alcoholic
liquor will be made, the estimated attendance upon the premises during the
period of the license and whether such sales or giveaway will be made to the
public or only to bona fide members of the organization or group for which the
license is requested. Satisfactory evidence from the owner of the premises
shall be furnished showing the authorization to the applicant for the use of
said premises, including the sale of alcoholic liquor for the period for which
the license is requested. The fee for a Class F-2 license shall be $75 for each
24-hour period or any part thereof.
      (20)   Class G license. This license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by the drink by institutions of higher learning. Such sales
shall be limited to periods of time when groups are assembled on the premises
solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquor. The annual fee for such license shall be $50.
      (21)   Class S license. This license is available only to holders of a
valid existing liquor license of any of the foregoing classes for one day/night
special event only. This license shall enable the holder of the underlying
liquor license to serve alcoholic beverages of the type permitted under the
existing license to extend retail liquor sales and service beyond regular hours
permitted by this chapter, to no later than 1:00 a.m. The requirements and
restrictions of the underlying license shall remain in full force and effect
during the effective period of the Class S license. The fee for this license
shall be $50.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be issued or permitted to hold more than one
class of license, or more than one license of any class, with the exception
that:
         (a)   Any person may be issued one Class A-1 or A-2 license on an
annual basis in addition to such person’s already existing license of any
class; and
         (b)   Any Class C, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, C-5 license holder may also
seek a Class C-6 or C-7 license as applicable. Additionally, any person holding
a valid license of any class may also be issued a Class S special event license
up to a maximum of four times per year.
      (2)   Nothing in this division (B) shall prohibit any person from
obtaining one or more Class F-1 or F-2 licenses in any license year.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.037 TERM; PRORATING FEE.
   Each license shall terminate April 30 next following its issuance. The fee
to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months, which
have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the license.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.038 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   There shall be issued in the village:
   (A)   No more than zero Class A licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (B)   No more than five Class A-1 licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (C)   No more than zero Class A-2 licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (D)   No more than zero Class B licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (E)   No more than zero Class B-1 licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (F)   No more than zero Class C licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (G)   No more than zero Class C-1 licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (H)   No more than zero Class C-2 licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (I)   No more than zero Class C-3 licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (J)   No more than zero Class C-4 licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (K)   No more than zero Class C-5 licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (L)   No more than zero Class C-6 licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (M)   No more than zero Class C-7 licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (N)   No more than zero Class D licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (O)   No more than zero Class E licenses combined to be in effect at any one
time;
   (P)   No more than two Class E licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (Q)   No more than zero Class F licenses to be in effect at any time;
   (R)   No more than zero Class F-1 licenses to be in effect at any one time;
   (S)   No more than zero Class F-2 licenses to be in effect at any one time;
and
   (T)   No more than zero Class G licenses to be in effect at any one time.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 2023-1, passed 3-13-2023; Ord. 2024-3,
passed 5-13-2024)
§ 112.039 RECORDS.
   The Commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all
such licenses issued by him or her and shall furnish the Village Clerk,
Treasurer and Chief of Police (if existing) each with a copy thereof. Upon the
issuance of any new license or the revocation of any old license, the
Commissioner shall give written notice of such action to each of these officers
within 48 hours of such action.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.040 TRANSFER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   A license shall be purely a personal privilege good for not to exceed
one year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as provided in this chapter, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be available or transferable,
voluntarily or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall
not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease
upon the death of the licensee, provided that executors or administrators of
the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or
bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may
continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor under order of the
appropriate court and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent
or bankrupt licensee until the expiration of such license, but not longer than
six months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. A refund
shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid for any period in which
the licensee shall be prevented from operating under such license in accordance
with the provisions of this division (A).
   (B)   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof;
provided, that he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the
premises for which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such
purposes; and provided, further, that the renewal privilege herein provided for
shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the
Commissioner from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within his or
her jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.041 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A retail liquor license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor on the
premises described in the application and license. Such location may be changed
only upon the written permit to make such a change issued by the Commissioner.
No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new location is a
proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the law of this state
and for the ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.042 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor within 100 feet of any church building used for worship or
educational purposes, school (other than an institution of higher learning),
hospital, senior citizen housing, daycare center, nursing or personal care
facility or any military or naval station. Notwithstanding the foregoing
sentence, this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant
service, regularly organized clubs or other places where the sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted shall have been established for such purposes prior to the time such
other use was established within 100 feet of the licensed premises; nor to the
renewal of a license for the sale of alcoholic liquor on premises within 100
feet of any church where such church has been established within such 100 feet
since the issuance of the original license.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this division (A) shall restrict the issuance
of a license for the sale of beer and wine for consumption on the premises of
such college or university, at a location upon the main premises of such
college or university approved by the Village Liquor Commissioner, to those
persons among students, faculty and staff of such college or university and
their families or guests to whom such sales are authorized by law.
   (B)   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale of any alcoholic
liquor other than beer and wine at any store or other place of business where
the majority of customers are minors or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such
minor.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.043 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   The Commissioner may suspend, for not more than 30 days, or revoke for
cause, any liquor license for any violation for any provisions contained in
this chapter or the statutes of the state pertaining to the sale of alcoholic
liquor.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.044 APPLICATION FOR LIQUOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application generally. Applications for local liquor licenses shall be
made to the Commissioner on a form prescribed by the Commissioner; shall be in
writing; shall be signed by the applicant if an individual, or by one of the
partners on behalf of all partners if a partnership, or by a duly authorized
agent if a corporation; and shall be verified by an oath or affidavit. Each
application shall specifically identify the applicant and the licensed premises
to which a local liquor license would be issued, and the filing of an
application shall authorize the local Liquor Commissioner or the Commissioner’s
agents to conduct all necessary or appropriate background checks of the
applicant and its agents, owners and representatives.
   (B)   Background information. Each applicant shall include the following
background information:
      (1)   The name, age, address and Social Security number of the applicant;
in the case of a partnership, also of the persons entitled to share in the
profits thereof; in the case of a corporation or club, the names and addresses
of the officers and directors and every person owning or controlling more than
5% of the voting shares of the stock or the ownership interest;
      (2)   In the case of an individual, the citizenship and place of birth of
the applicant, and if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her
naturalization. In the case of a corporation, the date and place of
incorporation and the objects for which it was formed and proof that it is a
corporation in good standing and authorized to conduct business in the state;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been in the business of
the character specified in response to division (B)(3) above;
      (5)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time the
application is made;
      (6)   The location and description of the premises for which a local
liquor license is sought and the specific name of the business that is to be
operated under such local liquor license;
      (7)   The names of each governmental body from which the applicant (and
all other persons identified in division (B)(1) above has received a liquor
license within ten years immediately prior to the date of the present
application; and
      (8)   A telephone number or numbers at which the licensee or the manager
can be contacted 24 hours per day.
   (C)   Statements required. For any license or renewal of license, the
applicant shall be required to make statements regarding such applicant and all
persons to be identified pursuant to division (B)(1) above. If the applicant is
an individual, that individual shall subscribe to all of the statements set out
below. If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall subscribe to all
of the statements set out below; provided, however, that if the applicant is
organized as a limited partnership, then the statement concerning active
involvement provided in division (C)(17) below shall be required only of all
general partners. If the applicant is a corporation, each director and officer
thereof and every person owning or controlling more than 5% of the voting
shares of such corporation shall subscribe to all of the statements set out
below. If the business for which the liquor license is sought will be managed
by a manager or agent, every such manager or agent shall subscribe to all of
the statements set out below:
      (1)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has a current, valid
state liquor license for the premises covered by the application;
      (2)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has ever been
convicted of a felony under any federal or state law;
      (3)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has ever been
convicted of a violation of any federal or state law or local ordinance
concerning the manufacture, possession, sale or dispensation of alcoholic
liquor or has ever forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer
charges for any such violation;
      (4)   A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been convicted of
a gambling offense as proscribed by any state of federal law or regulation or
has ever forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any
such violation;
      (5)   A statement whether the applicant has made similar application for
a similar license for a premises other than described in the application and
the disposition of such application;
      (6)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has had revoked any
liquor license issued under state or federal law or under the ordinances of any
municipality within ten years immediately prior to the date of the present
application;
      (7)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has had suspended
more than once any liquor license issued under state or federal law or under
the ordinances of any municipality within one year immediately prior to the
date of the present application;
      (8)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant is a village
employee or a law enforcing official of the village or any other government or
government agency;
      (9)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been issued a
federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering stamp for the current tax
period;
      (10)   A statement as to whether or not a federal gaming device stamp has
been issued for the current taxable year with respect to the premises for which
the local liquor license is sought;
      (11)   A statement as to whether or not the premises for which a local
liquor license is sought comprises a store or other place of business where the
majority of the customers are under the age of 21 years or where the principal
business transacted consists of the sale of school books, school supplies,
food, lunches or drinks for such customers;
      (12)   A statement as to whether or not the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor on the premises for which a license is sought will violate any provision
of this chapter;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the premises for which a license
is sought is within 100 feet of any church building used for worship or
educational purposes, school (other than an institution of higher learning),
hospital, senior citizen housing, daycare center, nursing or personal care
facility or any military or naval station;
      (14)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant is a permanent
resident of the village; or for any applicant that is partnership, all of the
general partners of the partnership are residents of the village;
      (15)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant beneficially owns
the premises for which a license is sought or has a lease thereon for the full
period for which the license is to be issued;
      (16)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant is the beneficial
owner of the business to be licensed;
      (17)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant will be personally
and actively involved in the operation of the business to be licensed;
      (18)   A statement as to whether or not the business is or will be
managed by a manager or agent;
      (19)   A statement as to the nature of the business and the amount of
anticipated alcoholic liquor sales as a percentage of gross annual sales of the
business;
      (20)   A statement that the applicant is not disqualified from receiving
a license by reason of any matter or item contained in the laws of the state,
this chapter or any other code or ordinance of the village;
      (21)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any federal or
state laws, or this chapter, or any other code or ordinance of the village in
the conduct of the applicant’s business;
      (22)   If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a statement as to
whether or not it is qualified under the State Business Corporations Act of
1983, 215 ILCS 125/3-1 et seq., to transact business in the state;
      (23)   If the business is to be operated pursuant to the local liquor
license and is operating under an assumed name, a statement that the applicant
has complied with the State Assumed Business Name Act (805 ILCS 405) and other
applicable laws; and
      (24)   Such other statements or information as may be necessary to
demonstrate that the applicant, the applicant’s business and the premises from
which such business will be conducted satisfy all conditions and requirements
applicable to the local liquor license being sought.
   (D)   Examination of applicant. At any time during the pendency of an
application, the Commissioner shall have the right to compel the applicant to
submit to any examination and to produce any books and records which, in the
judgment of the Commissioner, are material to the determination of whether the
applicant and the applicant’s business are qualified to receive a local liquor
license or whether the premises sought to be licensed is suitable for such
purposes. The Commissioner shall also have the right to require the applicant
to answer any charges made in any objection to the issuance of the license. The
failure of any applicant to appear at the time and place fixed by the
Commissioner for his or her examination or to produce books and records
requested, unless for good cause shown, shall be deemed to be admission that
the applicant is not qualified to receive a local liquor license and a request
to withdraw the application.
   (E)   Investigation and disclosure of information contained in application;
waiver of claims. By applying for or providing information in support of an
application for a local liquor license, every person so applying or providing
information thereby:
      (1)   Authorizes any person to disclose, and the village to investigate,
all information pertaining to such applications;
      (2)   Waives any and all claims against the village; and
      (3)   Agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the village and its elected
and appointed officials, officers, boards, commissioners, attorneys, employees,
agents and representatives from any and all claims resulting from, or arising
out of, or alleged to result from or arise out of the processing of such
applications and any investigation related thereto. Each such person shall
consent to and sign any written authorization, waiver and indemnification
agreement as the village may require in connection with the processing of such
application, and any investigation related thereto, but no such separate
authorization, waiver or indemnification shall be required to make effective
the terms of this division (E).
   (F)   Denial or issuance of license. If, after review of an application and
all relevant facts, the Commissioner decides that the application should be
denied, the Commissioner shall notify the applicant within a reasonable time,
in writing, stating the reasons for the denial, but otherwise shall issue the
local liquor license as soon as all facts required by this chapter have been
satisfied.
   (G)   Supplemental information following issuance. Any change in information
provided on, or in connection with, any application for a local liquor license
that does or might affect the right of any licensee to continue to hold a
liquor license shall be reported in writing to the Commissioner within ten days
after the change. All such changes shall be subject to review and approval by
the Commissioner in the same manner as the original application. When any such
change affects the ownership of any partnership licensee or any director,
officer, manager or person owning or controlling more than 5% of the shares of
any corporate licensee, all such persons that have not previously submitted
information pursuant to the application process, shall, within ten days after
such change, submit all information required of a new applicant.
   (H)   Application fee. Any application shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable administrative processing fee of $125, which fee shall be applied to
the applicable license fee if the applicant qualifies for a local liquor
license.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.045 INELIGIBILITY FOR LIQUOR LICENSE.
   No local liquor license shall be issued or renewed to:
   (A)   A person who is not a permanent resident of the village; provided,
however, that this division (A) shall not prohibit the issuance of a local
liquor license to a corporation; and provided further, however, that this
division (A) shall not prohibit the issuance of a local liquor license to a
partnership where at least one general partner is a permanent resident of the
village or an area within ten miles of the corporate limits of the village;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper, or is keeping, a
house of ill fame;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or any other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (G)   A person whose local liquor license has been suspended more than once
for cause within one year immediately prior to the present application if the
Commissioner determines that the applicant is no longer worthy of the public
trust;
   (H)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   (I)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of a local liquor
license, would not be eligible for such license upon a first application;
   (J)   A person whose place of business is managed by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the qualifications required of an
individual licensee other than residency in the village;
   (K)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law or local ordinance concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of
alcoholic liquor, or who has forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to
answer charges for any such alleged violation;
   (L)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a local
liquor license is sought or does not have a lease thereon for the full period
for which such local liquor license is to be issued;
   (M)   A person who is not the beneficial owner of the business to be
licensed;
   (N)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any state or federal law or regulation or who has forfeited his or her bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such alleged violation;
   (O)   A person to whom a federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax period;
   (P)   A person applying for a license with respect to premises for which a
federal gaming device stamp has been issued for the current taxable year;
   (Q)   A person applying for a license with respect to premises in which the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor would violate any provision of this code;
   (R)   A person who will not be personally and actively involved in the
operation of the business to be licensed, either directly or through a manager
identified in the license application;
   (S)   A co-partnership, unless all members thereof shall be qualified to
obtain a license; provided, however, that the requirement of active involvement
in division (R) above shall apply to only one partner;
   (T)   A corporation, if any director, officer or manager thereof, or any
person owning or controlling more than 5% of the stock thereof, would not be
eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than citizenship
and residence or the requirement of active involvement in division (R) above;
   (U)   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in the state or is a foreign
corporation that is qualified under the State Business Corporation Act of 1983,
215 ILCS 125/3-1 et seq., to transact business in the state;
   (V)   Any law enforcing public official, any Village President or member of
the Village Board, any chairperson or member of a county board, and no such
official shall be interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor; or
   (W)   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a State Liquor
License.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.046 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE, MAINTENANCE AND RENEWAL OF LIQUOR LICENSE.
   (A)   State license required. All local liquor licenses shall be conditioned
on the acquisition and maintenance in good standing by the applicant and
licensee of a state liquor license. No local liquor license shall authorize the
retail sale of any alcoholic liquor until proof of acquisition of such state
liquor license is furnished to the Commissioner. If any state liquor license
sought or held by a licensee is refused, suspended or revoked, then such
licensee shall be deemed in violation of this chapter and such licensee’s local
liquor license shall be subject to revocation.
   (B)   Insurance required. All local liquor licenses shall be conditioned on
the acquisition and maintenance in good standing by the applicant and licensee
of general liability insurance in the amounts of at least $2,000,000 for injury
or death to any person and $2,000,000 for damage to property and dram shop
liability insurance at least to the maximum amount recoverable under applicable
state statutes. Before any local liquor license may be issued, the applicant
shall furnish the Commissioner with a certificate from an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state certifying that the applicant has such
insurance policies in force for the full period for which the local liquor
license is to be issued.
   (C)   Bond required.
      (1)   All local liquor licenses shall be conditioned on the acquisition
and maintenance in good standing by the applicant and licensee of a surety bond
in favor of the village in the amount of $2,000 to the village.
      (2)   Before any local liquor license may be issued, the applicant shall
furnish such bond. Such bond shall be forfeited automatically on revocation of
the local liquor license for which the bond was furnished if revocation was for
cause.
   (D)   Termination due to individual change. When a local liquor license has
been issued to an individual who is discovered to be or becomes ineligible for
such local liquor license, the licensee shall be deemed in violation of this
chapter, and such licensee’s local liquor license shall be subject to
revocation.
   (E)   Termination due to partnership change. When a local liquor license has
been issued to a partnership and a change of ownership occurs, resulting in any
person that is ineligible to hold a local liquor license acquiring a
partnership interest, the licensee shall be deemed in violation of this
chapter, and such licensee’s local liquor license shall be subject to
revocation.
   (F)   Termination due to a corporate change. When a local liquor license has
been issued to a corporation and a change occurs in any of the directors,
officers, managers, stockholders of more than 5% of the stock, or members with
more than 5% interest resulting in any person that is ineligible to hold a
local liquor license becoming a director, officer, manager, stockholder of more
than 5% or member with more than 5% interest, the licensee shall be deemed in
violation of this chapter, and such licensee’s local liquor license shall be
subject to revocation.
   (G)   Cessation or interruption of business.
      (1)   Any licensee who ceases to do business or closes his or her place
of business for a period of more than 30 days without the prior written consent
of the Commissioner shall be deemed in violation of this chapter, and such
licensee’s local liquor license shall be subject to revocation.
      (2)   A licensee who intends to cease to do business or who intends to
close his or her place of business for more than 30 days shall give the
Commissioner written notice of such cessation or closing as soon as practical
after the decision to cease business or close is made, but in any event before
the cessation or closing.
      (3)   Such notice shall state the expected date of cessation or closing
and the reason therefor.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 112.060 CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to sell or offer for sale any alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises where sold or to permit anyone to
consume alcoholic liquor on such premises except as provided by the
authorization granted under the provisions of this chapter for the several
classes of licenses described herein.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.061 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of such liquor, for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be kept in full compliance with the ordinances regulating the
condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human
consumption.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
SALES
§ 112.075 SALES OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   Sales restricted to licensed premises. A local liquor license shall
permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only at the licensed premises and only in
compliance with the terms of that license.
   (B)   Sales to certain persons.
      (1)   Sales prohibited. No licensee, and no agent of any licensee, shall
sell, give or deliver any alcoholic liquor to any person who is, or who appears
to be, intoxicated or known by the licensee or agent to be a habitual drunkard,
spendthrift, insane, mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental
treatment.
      (2)   Secondary transfer prohibited. No person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall give, sell or deliver such
alcoholic liquor to any person who is, or who appears to be, intoxicated, or
known by the person to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally
ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.076 CLOSING HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for all holders of liquor licenses hereunder, with the
exception of those holding Class D licenses, to sell or offer for sale at
retail any alcoholic liquor in the village between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and
6:00 a.m. on any day, with the exception of holders of the Class S liquor
license. It shall be unlawful for any holder of a Class D license hereunder to
sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor in the village between
the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.077 ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IN PUBLIC PLACES AND MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Consumption and possession of open containers in public places
prohibited. Except as may otherwise be expressly permitted, it shall be
unlawful for any person to consume, or to possess open containers of, alcoholic
liquor in any public building or on any public property or right-of-way.
   (B)   Public intoxication prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
be in an intoxicated condition in any public building or on any public property
or right-of-way.
   (C)   Public disturbance prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
be in an intoxicated state in any private house or place to the disturbance of
any other person.
   (D)   Possession of open liquor in motor vehicles prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, carry or possess any alcoholic liquor in
or about any motor vehicle on any public right-of-way except in the original
package with the seal unbroken.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 112.090 VIOLATION DETERMINED BY COMMISSIONER.
   The Commissioner may suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke any local
liquor license and, in addition to any suspension, may fine any licensee for
any violation of any liquor law (including the failure of the licensee to pay
any license cost or fee or any tax imposed on alcoholic liquor or the sale
thereof) committed or permitted by the licensee or any agent of the licensee,
or which occurs at the licensed premises, or for which the licensee or any
agent of the licensee is otherwise legally responsible.
   (A)   Suspension; revocation; fine. Except as provided in division (B)
below, no local liquor license shall be revoked or suspended, and no fine shall
be imposed on any licensee except after a public hearing before the
Commissioner.
   (B)   Summary suspension. If the Commissioner has reason to believe that any
continued operation of any licensed premises poses a threat to the welfare of
the community, then the Commissioner may, on the issuance of a written order
stating the reasons for such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order a
licensed premises closed for not more than seven days, during which time the
licensee shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard; provided, however, that
if such licensee also conducts another business or businesses on the licensed
premises, no closing order issued pursuant to this division (B) shall be
applicable to such other business or businesses.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.091 VIOLATION DETERMINED BY COURT.
   Whenever any licensee, or an agent of a licensee, shall be found in any
court to have violated any liquor law, the local liquor license of said
licensee may, in the discretion of the Commissioner, be revoked.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.092 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any five residents of the village may file a complaint with the
Commissioner alleging that a licensee has been or is violating any liquor law.
      (1)   Every such complaint shall be in writing, shall be in the form
prescribed by the Commissioner, shall be signed and sworn to by the complaining
residents and shall state the particular liquor law alleged to have been
violated and the facts in detail supporting such allegation.
      (2)   If the Commissioner is satisfied that there is probable cause to
believe a violation has occurred, the Commissioner shall set the matter for
hearing and shall serve notice on the complainant and the licensee of the time
and place of such hearing and of the particular charges in the complaint to be
considered at such hearing.
   (B)   On complaint of the State Department of Revenue, the Commissioner
shall refuse the issuance or renewal of any local liquor license, or shall
suspend or revoke any local liquor license, for any of the following violations
of any tax act administered by the State Department of Revenue:
      (1)   Failure to file a tax return;
      (2)   Filing a fraudulent return;
      (3)   Failure to pay all or any part of any tax or penalty finally
determined to be due;
      (4)   Failure to keep proper books and records;
      (5)   Failure to secure and display a certificate or subcertificate of
registration; and/or
      (6)   Willful violation of any rule or regulation of the State Department
of Revenue relating to the administration and enforcement of tax liability.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.093 HEARINGS.
   (A)   No local liquor license shall be revoked or suspended, and no licensee
shall be fined, except after a public hearing held before the Commissioner. No
such hearing shall be held until at least three days after the licensee has
been given written notice affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and
defend. All such hearings shall be open to the public. The Commissioner shall
reduce all evidence to writing and shall maintain an official record of the
proceedings.
   (B)   Within five days after the hearing, if the Commissioner determines
that the licensee should be disciplined, the Commissioner shall issue a written
order stating the reason or reasons for such determination. The order shall
state that the license has been revoked, or the period of suspension, and the
amount of the fine, if any. The Commissioner shall serve a copy of the order on
the licensee within said five-day period.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.094 APPEALS.
   Appeals from the decision of the Commissioner shall be taken to the State
Liquor Control Commission in the manner provided by law. Every review by the
State Liquor Control Commission shall be limited to a review of the official
record of the proceedings of the Commissioner.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
§ 112.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except to where higher minimum penalties are established by statute,
and in addition to the penalties provided in divisions (B) and (C) below, any
person who violates any provision of this chapter may be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $750 for the first such violation and not less than $100 not
more than $750 for the second and each subsequent violation. Each day on which
a violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   The Commissioner may impose a fine on a licensee pursuant to §§
112.090 through
112.094 in an amount not to exceed $1,000 for each violation. No licensee shall
be fined more than $10,000 during the term of such licensee’s local liquor
license.
   (C)   Each day on which or during which any person violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, and each separate act or transaction in violation
of this chapter, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2006-0-2, passed 3-13-2006)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Resisting a police officer
   
130.02   Obstructing service of process
   
130.03   Obstruction of justice
   
130.04   Vandalism
   
130.05   Disorderly conduct
   
130.06   Disturbing lawful assemblages
   
130.07   Fighting
   
130.08   Possession of cannabis
   
130.09   Weapons
   
130.10   Vagrancy
   
130.11   Drug paraphernalia
   
130.12   Panhandling, hawking or peddling prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 RESISTING A POLICE OFFICER.
   A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by one known to
the person to be a peace officer of any authorized act within the officer’s
official capacity commits the offense of resisting or obstructing a peace
officer.
(Ord. 2003-0-4, passed 6-11-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 OBSTRUCTING SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Whoever knowingly resists or obstructs the authorized service or execution
of any civil or criminal process or order of any court commits the offense of
obstructing service of process.
(Ord. 2003-0-4, passed 6-11-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE.
   A person obstructs justice when, with intent to prevent the apprehension or
obstruct the prosecution or defense of any person, he or she knowingly commits
any of the following acts:
   (A)   Destroys, alters, conceals or disguises physical evidence, plants
false evidence, furnishes false information; or
   (B)   Induces a witness having knowledge material to the subject at issue to
leave the state or conceal himself or herself.
(Ord. 2003-0-4, passed 6-11-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 VANDALISM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized pictorial marking or lettering with any form
of permanent or semi-permanent marking means, including, but not limited to,
paint, spray paint, ink, marking pens or stain.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN. A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor
by a Circuit Court of this state, or an appropriate court of any other
jurisdiction, but does not include a person appointed guardian or given custody
of a minor under the State Juvenile Court Act (705 ILCS 405).
      MINOR. Includes a person who is above the age of 11 years but not yet 19
years of age.
      PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind, including governmental
entities.
      PROPERTY. Any real estate, including improvements thereon, tangible and
intangible personalty.
   (B)   Vandalism prohibited. It shall be unlawful for anyone to willfully or
maliciously injure, deface, destroy, smash eggs against or upon or interfere
with any property belonging to the village, other governmental bodies or any
private person, firm or corporation.
   (C)   Parental responsibility. The parent or legal guardian shall be
presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have failed to
exercise proper parental responsibility, and said minor shall be deemed to have
committed the following described acts with the knowledge and permission of the
parent or guardian, upon the occurrence of the following events.
      (1)   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any code section prohibited
willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property, or shall
have incurred non-judicial sanctions from another governmental agency resulting
from an admission of guilty of violation of code section which prohibits
willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property.
      (2)   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service with a certificate of personal service return, from the
Police Department of this municipality following said adjudication or non-
judicial sanction; provided further, that at any time within one year following
receipt of said notice, said minor is either adjudicated to be in violation of
any code or section as described herein, or shall have incurred non-judicial
sanctions from another governmental agency resulting from an admission of guilt
of violation of any code section as described herein.
   (D)   Graffiti prohibited. It shall be unlawful for anyone to paint, mark or
cause graffiti to be placed on any property owned or possessed by any other
person or entity.
(Ord. 2003-0-5, passed 6-11-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
      (2)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists;
      (3)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed such place;
      (4)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or
public employee or Village Trustee a report to the effect that an offense has
been committed, knowing at the time of such transmission that there is not
reasonable ground for believing that such an offense has been committed; or
      (5)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to collect, gather or be a member of any
disorderly crowd, or any crowd gathered together for an unlawful purpose.
(Ord. 2003-0-6, passed 7-14-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful assemblage or
gathering in the village.
(Ord. 2003-0-6, passed 7-14-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault or battery or to
fight in any public place in the village.
(Ord. 2003-0-6, passed 7-14-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 POSSESSION OF CANNABIS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to possess cannabis.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CANNABIS. Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any part of the plant Cannabis Sativa, whether growing
or not; the seed thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a combination of extraction
and chemical syntheses; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
such mature stalks except the resin extracted therefrom, fiber oil or cake, or
the sterilized seed, or such plant which is incapable of germination.
(Ord. 2003-0-6, passed 7-14-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to carry any concealed weapons in the village
without first having obtained a license to carry such concealed weapons duly
issued under the laws of the state.
   (B)   No person shall carry concealed on or about his or her person a
pistol, revolver, blackjack, sand club, sand bag, metal knuckle or bludgeon.
This provision does not apply to officers while engaged in the performance of
their duties or other duly constituted peace officers and wardens,
superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries, jails and other
institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted of crime; nor
for the following employees or agents while engaged in the discharge of the
duties of their employment: conductors; baggage men; messengers; drivers;
watchmen; special agents; and police officers employed by railroads or express
companies; nor to persons lawfully summoned by an officer to assist in making
arrests or preserving the peace.
   (C)   No person shall conceal, keep, loan or give to any person any
blackjack, sand club, sand bag, metal knuckles, bludgeon or nunchucks (being
two or three pieces of wood, metal, plastic or rubber, joined together by a
chain, tape or wire), and no person shall carry or possess, with the intent to
use the same unlawfully against another, a dagger, dirk, billy, razor,
stiletto, switchblade knife or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instrument of similar character.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CARRY.
         (a)   To hold in one’s hand;
         (b)   To have upon one’s person;
         (c)   To have in one’s clothing, jacket or other personal apparel;
         (d)   To have in any backpack, luggage, briefcase, sport pack, duffel
bag, satchel or other enclosure held or carried on or about the person; or
         (e)   To have or permit the same to be located in any unlocked section
of a person’s automobile, boat, motorcycle or other vehicle.
(Ord. 2003-0-6, passed 7-14-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 VAGRANCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any mendicant or vagrant to frequent any
depot, store, theater, street, alley, sidewalk, park or other public place or
places frequented by the public in the village.
   (B)   Any person soliciting personal charity or gifts for himself or herself
shall be considered to be a mendicant.
(Ord. 2003-0-6, passed 7-14-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind
which are peculiar to and marketed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation
of the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.). It includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Kits peculiar to and marketed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance;
      (2)   Isomerization devices peculiar to and marketed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a
controlled substance;
      (3)   Testing equipment peculiar to and marketed for private home use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis
or controlled substances;
      (4)   Diluents and adulterants peculiar to and marketed for cutting
cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
      (5)   Objects peculiar to and marketed for use in ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil into the human
body, including, where applicable, the following items:
         (a)   Water pipes;
         (b)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (c)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (d)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (e)   Carburetor pipes;
         (f)   Electric pipes;
         (g)   Air-driven pipes;
         (h)   Chillums;
         (i)   Bongs; or
         (j)   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (6)   Any time whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is
for use in violation of this section.
   (B)   No person shall possess any item of drug paraphernalia used for
ingesting or otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled substance into the
human body, or in preparing or cannabis or a controlled substance for that use,
unless otherwise exempt under state law.
(Ord. 2003-0-6, passed 7-14-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 PANHANDLING, HAWKING OR PEDDLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the “Old Mill Creek Panhandling
Ordinance.”
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONTRIBUTIONS. Includes the words food, clothing, money, subscriptions,
property, alms or any other donations.
      HAWKING. Displaying wares and announcing their existence for sale.
      PANHANDLING. Any act of asking strangers for money or other contributions
in public places.
      PEDDLING. To travel about selling small wares.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, individual, corporation or
company to peddle, hawk or panhandle on any street, road, or right-of-way
within the village.
(Ord. 2023-6, passed 11-13-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person adjudged guilty of violating any provision of §§
130.01 through
130.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by incarceration in a penal
institution other than the penitentiary for a period not to exceed six months
and a fine in an amount not less than $50 nor more than $500.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.04(B) shall be liable for complete restitution to the owner or lawful
possessor of the property injured, defaced, destroyed, egged or interfered
with, and shall be fined $75 for each such building or article of personal
property so marked.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.04(C) shall be liable for complete restitution to the owner or lawful
possessor of the property injured, defaced, destroyed, egged or interfered
with, up to, but not exceeding, the limits of parental responsibility provided
in 740 ILCS 115/5, and shall be fined $75 for each such building or article of
personal property so marked, and all parents and/or guardians of the minor
offender shall be jointly and severally liable for all fines and restitution
hereunder.
      (3)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.04(D) shall be liable for complete restitution to the owner or lawful
possessor of the property painted, inked or otherwise marked with graffiti, and
shall be fined $75 for each such building or article of personal property so
marked.
   (D)   (1) Any person that is adjudged guilty officiating any provisions of
§§
130.05 through
130.11 shall be guilty of a petty offense, punishable by a fine only of not
less than $50 nor more than $500.
      (2) Any person adjudged guilty of violating any provisions of §
130.09 shall be fined $75 for each such weapon in his or her possession.
   (E)   Any infraction of the provisions of §
130.12 shall be penalized by a fine of not less than $50 for each day that the
infraction continues.
(Ord. 2003-0-4, passed 6-11-2003; Ord. 2003-0-5, passed 6-11-2003; Ord. 2003-0-
6, passed 7-14-2003; Ord. 2023-6, passed 11-13-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
152.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      
153.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
154.   WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
      
155.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
      
156.   ZONING
      
157.   COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
      
158.   DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   County Building Ordinance adopted
   
150.02   Building codes adopted
   
150.03   Signs
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 COUNTY BUILDING ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Building Ordinance or Building Code of the county, the same being
a public record, at least three copies of which have heretofore been filed with
the Village Clerk at least 30 days prior to the adoption of said ordinance, is
hereby adopted by reference as the Building Ordinance or Building Code of the
village.
   (B)   All fees as may be established by resolution of the President and
Board of Trustees of the village shall be collected by the Building Officer and
by him or her deposited with the Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 60-0-5, passed 7-19-1960)
§ 150.02 BUILDING CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption of IBC. The Board of Trustees hereby adopts the 2018 version
of the International Building Code (IBC), except for any provision imposing
sprinkler requirements, as the minimum construction standards for all new
buildings, except residential buildings, within the Village of Old Mill Creek,
and except as may be modified by subsequent village ordinances.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees hereby adopts the 2018 version of the
International Existing Building Code (IEBC), except for any provision imposing
sprinkler requirements, as the minimum construction standards for all
rehabilitation work in existing buildings, except residential buildings, within
the Village of Old Mill Creek, and except as may be modified by subsequent
village ordinances.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees hereby adopts the 2018 version of the
International Residential Building Code (IRBC), except for any provision
imposing sprinkler requirements, as the minimum construction standards for all
residential construction within the Village of Old Mill Creek, except as may be
modified by subsequent village ordinances.
(Ord. 2009-0-2, passed 2-9-2009; Ord. 2025-2, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 150.03 SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place or maintain any sign, sign post,
handbill or advertisement upon any street or other public property in the
village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any sign or advertisement
upon any building or vacant property within the village without first obtaining
a permit therefor.
   (C)   Applications for sign permits shall indicate the name and address of
the applicant, the size of the proposed sign, the location of the proposed sign
and the legend proposed to be printed on said sign. All applications for
permits under this section shall be directed to the President and Board of
Trustees and referred by them to the Building Commission. No permit fee shall
be charged.
   (D)   No sign shall exceed 24 square feet in area or be more than six feet
wide or six feet high.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to signs indicating an
individual’s name on private property or to signs naming private property or to
“No Trespassing” signs.
(Ord. 67-0-28, passed 8-15-1967) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of the Building Ordinance adopted in §
150.01, including provisions adopted by reference, or who refuses to remedy a
violation of any such provision or to remedy a hazard of fire, explosion,
collapse, contagion or spread of infectious disease found to exist and duly
ordered eliminated, shall be fined not more than $200 for each offense, and
each day upon which such violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (2)   A person, firm or corporation licensed or registered by the state
or a subdivision thereof to do work regulated by §
150.01 or to render professional architectural or engineering service in
connection therewith, who violates the law or ordinance under which licensed or
registered, or who violates the Building Ordinance adopted in §
150.01 while carrying out such work or rendering service in connection
therewith, shall be reported by the Building Officer to the licensing
authority.
   (C)   Any firm, person or corporation violating any provision of, or failing
to perform any duty imposed by the codes adopted in §
150.02 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than $1,000,
and each day upon which a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
150.03 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, and a separate
offense shall have been deemed to occur on each day on which a violation occurs
or continues.
(Ord. 60-0-5, passed 7-19-1960; Ord. 67-0-28, passed 8-15-1967; Ord. 2009-0-2,
passed 2-9-2009)
CHAPTER 151: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Intent
   
151.03   Scope
   
151.04   Franchises, licenses and the like
   
151.05   Encroachments
   
151.06   Annual registration required
   
151.07   Permit required; applications and fees
   
151.08   Action on permit applications
   
151.09   Effect of permit
   
151.10   Revised permit drawings
   
151.11   Insurance
   
151.12   Indemnification
   
151.13   Security
   
151.14   Permit suspension and revocation
   
151.15   Change of ownership, legal status or the like
   
151.16   General construction standards
   
151.17   Traffic control
   
151.18   Location of facilities
   
151.19   Construction methods and materials
   
151.20   Vegetation control
   
151.21   Removal, relocation or modifications of utility facilities
   
151.22   Clean-up and restoration
   
151.23   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
151.24   Deviations
   
151.25   Enforcement
   
151.26   Conflicts with other ordinances or state and federal laws
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and procedures for
construction within rights-of-way and use of village-owned land and rights-of-
way within the village’s jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit
consistent with the preservation of the integrity, safe usage and visual
qualities of the village rights-of-way and the village as a whole.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.02 INTENT.
   In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its authority over
the rights-of-way in the village and, in particular, the use of village-owned
land and the public ways and property by utilities and others, by establishing
uniform standards to address issues presented by utility facilities and the
public, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Preventing interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
   (B)   Preventing the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular, equestrian and pedestrian traffic;
   (C)   Preventing interference with the facilities and operations of the
village and of utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or public property;
   (D)   Protecting against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
   (E)   Protecting against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
   (F)   Preserving the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
   (G)   Preserving open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the village’s residential neighborhoods;
   (H)   Preventing visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
   (I)   Assuring the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.03 SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to all use of, and construction on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across and/or within, village-owned land and the rights-of-way
within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established prior
to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained, repaired
and operated as presently constructed and located, except as may be otherwise
provided in any applicable franchise, license or similar agreement.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.04 FRANCHISES, LICENSES AND THE LIKE.
   In its discretion and as limited by law, the village may require utilities
to enter into a franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of
locating their facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within
village-owned land and the rights-of-way over which the village has
jurisdiction. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. Any such
agreement may contain terms and conditions inconsistent with the regulations
contained in this chapter.
   (A)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event that a
utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (B)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.05 ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   In all cases, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to erect or cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any
encroachment within the limits of a state project right-of-way or roadway
right-of-way where no project right-of-way lines have been established.
   (B)   In addition, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To deposit, throw or place upon any public sidewalk, street, alley,
parkway or public place any waste, garbage, ashes, cinders, barrels,
combustibles or any other article which might obstruct or interfere with the
use of the street or which might cause injury to person, vehicles, animals or
property; and/or
      (2)   To cause, create or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley,
sidewalk, parkway, fire hydrant or public way except as may be authorized by
the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies any right-of-way within the corporate limits of
the village shall register on or before February 1 of each year with the
Village Engineer, providing the utility’s name, address and regular business
telephone and facsimile numbers, the name of one or more contact persons who
can act on behalf of the utility in connection with emergencies involving the
utility’s facilities in the right-of-way and a 24-hour telephone number for
each such person, and evidence of insurance as required in §
151.11.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.07 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any facility on,
over, above, along, upon, under, across or within any village right-of-way
which:
         (a)   Changes the location of the facility;
         (b)   Adds a new facility;
         (c)   Disrupts the right-of-way; or
         (d)   Materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility on, over, above, along, under, across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the Village Engineer and obtaining a
village permit therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (2)   No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the Village Engineer and shall be
filed in such number of duplicate copies as the Village Engineer may designate.
The applicant may designate those portions of its application materials that it
reasonably believes contain proprietary or confidential information as
“proprietary” or “confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials
accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name, address, telephone and facsimile numbers;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, facsimile numbers, e-mail address and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses, telephone and facsimile numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the Village
Engineer:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the State Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, but not limited to, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies and the intended response by the applicant. The
intended response shall include notification to the Village Engineer and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the Village Engineer finds that additional information or
assurances are needed.
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
151.11;
      (8)   Evidence of depositing of the security in the security fund as
required in §
151.13;
      (9)   A request for a deviation, if one is sought, from one or more
provisions of this chapter (see §
151.24); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village Engineer.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the permit application
shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific utility that
is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any certificate of public
convenience and necessity or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
State Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies have
been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control, the county and any other local or state
entities with jurisdiction have been satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the Village Engineer within 30 days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $1,000. No application fee is required
to be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity
infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure
Maintenance Fee Act (35 ILCS 645).
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Village Engineer review of permit applications. Completed permit
applications containing all required documentation shall be examined by the
Village Engineer within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules
and regulations, the Village Engineer shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the Village Engineer is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, the Village Engineer shall
issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be
the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in full
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional Village Engineer review of applications of
telecommunications retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the Village Engineer that it intends
to commence work governed by ordinance for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans, specifications
and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the
facilities and shall be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the
Village Engineer not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work
requiring no excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of
work requiring excavation. The Village Engineer shall specify the portion of
the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the Village Engineer fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either ten
days after service of notice to the Village Engineer by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or
25 days after service of notice by the telecommunications retailer in the case
of work involving excavation for new construction, the telecommunications
retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the Village Engineer,
where a permit is required for work pursuant to this chapter, the
telecommunications retailer shall submit to the Village Engineer an application
for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and documentation available
regarding the facility to be constructed. Such application shall be subject to
the requirements of division (A) above.
   (C)   Additional Village Engineer review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 (65 ILCS 5/11-42-11.2) shall be deemed
granted 45 days after submission to the Village Engineer, unless otherwise
acted upon by the Village Engineer; provided, that the holder has complied with
applicable village codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.09 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit issued by the Village Engineer in accordance with this chapter
authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain activities in accordance with
this chapter on village-owned land and/or rights-of-way and does not create a
property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the rights
of others who may have an interest in such land and/or the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the Village
Engineer with such other village representatives in attendance as the Village
Engineer deems necessary. The meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the
work under the permit and reviewing special considerations necessary in the
areas where work will occur, including, but not limited to, presence or absence
of other utility facilities in the area and their locations, procedures to
avoid disruption of other utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during
construction and access and egress by adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
Village Engineer does not excuse the permittee from complying with other
requirements of the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations.
   (E)   Notice before commencement of construction. A minimum of 24 hours’
prior written notice must be given to the Village Engineer before any work
shall begin pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter.
   (F)   Copy of permit at site location. A copy of the issued permit shall be
kept at the work site at all times.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.10 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the Village Engineer within 90
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for deviation in accordance with §
151.24. If the Village Engineer denies the request for a deviation, then the
permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the
facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.11 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits. Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents and employees, as additional insureds on the policies listed in
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) below:
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
“X,” “C,” and “U” coverages) and products completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         (a)   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each person;
         (b)   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any one
accident; and
         (c)   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
      (2)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property damage for
each accident;
      (3)   Workers’ compensation with statutory limits; and
      (4)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident. If the utility is not providing such
insurance to protect the contractors and subcontractors performing the work,
then such contractors and subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of all of the
policies required by this section to the Village Engineer within ten days
following receipt of a written request therefor from the Village Engineer.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages. The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement: “It is hereby
understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled, nor the intention
not to renew be stated until 30 days after receipt by the Village Engineer, by
registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a written
notice addressed to the Village Engineer of such intent to cancel or not to
renew.” Within ten days after receipt by the Village Engineer of said notice,
and in no event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility
shall obtain and furnish to the Village Engineer evidence of replacement
insurance policies meeting the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (A) above or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
above. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the Village
Engineer evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-
insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division
(A) above, such as evidence that the utility is a “private self-insurer” under
the Workers’ Compensation Act (820 ILCS 305).
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on a utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state. All insurance
carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated “A-” or better and of a class
size “X” or higher by A.M. Best Company.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.12 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected
and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by ordinance or by a franchise, license or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility’s indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.13 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee’s sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The security fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the Village Engineer issued pursuant to
this chapter; and
      (3)   The payment by the permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by the permittee in violation of this chapter, including, but
not limited to, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee
is required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
any ordinance or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the Village Attorney or an unconditional letter of credit in a
form acceptable to the Village Attorney. Any surety bond or letter of credit
provided pursuant to this division (B) shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
Village Engineer and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Provide a location convenient to the Village Engineer and within
the state at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Village Engineer, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the Village Engineer estimates are likely to be
incurred by or on behalf of the village if the permittee fails to perform such
restoration. Where the construction of facilities proposed under the permit
will be performed in phases in multiple locations within the corporate limits
of the village, with each phase consisting of construction of facilities in one
location or a related group of locations, and where construction in another
phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial completion of restoration in
the previous phase or phases, the Village Engineer may, in the exercise of
sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount of security which
shall be applicable to each phase of the construction under the permit. The
amount of the security fund for phased construction shall be equal to the
greatest amount that would have been required under the provisions of this
division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The Village Engineer, upon 14 days’ advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this division (D), may withdraw an amount from the security fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount
within the 14-day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the Village
Engineer determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the
security fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
Village Engineer that an amount has been withdrawn from the security fund, the
permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in division
(C) above.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said return to the Village Engineer; provided, that
any such return of interest does not reduce the security fund below the minimum
balance required in division (C) above.
   (G)   Closing and return of security fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.14 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Village right to revoke permit. The Village Engineer may revoke or
suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the
following reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The Village Engineer shall send
written notice of the village’s intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued
pursuant to this chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or
suspension and the alternatives available to the permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension. While (in its sole discretion and for good cause shown) the Village
Board may extend the time periods provided in this division (C), upon receipt
of a written notice of revocation or suspension from the Village Engineer, the
permittee shall have the following options:
      (1)   Immediately provide the Village Engineer with evidence that no
cause exists for the revocation or suspension;
      (2)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer,
the deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the Village Engineer within five working days after receipt of
the written notice of revocation; or
      (3)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-of-way
to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer providing written proof of such
removal to the Village Engineer within ten days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation.
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the Village Engineer may issue a stop work order immediately
upon discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division
(A) above.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of division (C) above, the Village Engineer or
his or her designee may, at the option of the Village Engineer, correct the
deficiencies, upon not less than 20 days’ notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment or, after not less than 30 days’ notice to the
permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and
property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the
village for all costs of removal.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.15 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP, LEGAL STATUS OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the Village Engineer no
less than 30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right-of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, with respect to the work and facilities in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village’s right-
of-way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer and submitted to
the Village Engineer in accordance with §
151.11.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.16 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   Flagger’s Handbook; and
      (7)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the Village Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply, and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Village Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance or operation of a facility in the
future.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.17 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The village’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s State Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
151.23, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.18 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this division
(A).
      (1)   No interference with village operations. No utility facilities
shall be placed in any location if the Village Engineer determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any village
facilities or will otherwise interfere with village operations.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with, the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 meters) behind the face
of the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 meters) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located, in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
meters) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way
line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 meters) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 meters) from the right-of-way line and any above-
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 meters) of the
right-of-way line or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities. Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      (3)   Ninety-degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90 degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s
rules entitled “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines” (83
I.A.C. part 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 meters) of the right-of-
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The Village Engineer may require the utility to provide a
marker at each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a
power or communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify
the type of facility, the utility and an emergency phone number. Markers may
also be eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 C.F.R. §
192.707 (1989)).
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The Village
Engineer may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way
that are not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The Village Engineer may restrict the location and size of any
freestanding facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The Village Engineer may require any freestanding facility located
within a right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities installed above ground. Above-ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The Village Engineer may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.19 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or jacking operations and
backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations are completed.
While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades.
Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced and maintained so that it
will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it
during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 meters) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (25 millimeters).
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger or
auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the Village Engineer to be preserved or protected shall
be bored under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of § 603 of IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with, requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Village Engineer.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the State
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the Village Engineer to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible for removal and
restoration of any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the
facility. If so ordered by the Village Engineer, the utility, at its expense,
shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed
facility, place and properly compact new backfill material and restore new
pavement, sidewalk, curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by
the Village Engineer.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a deviation to the limitation set forth in this division (A)(4)
is permitted under §
151.24, the following requirements shall apply.
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Engineer.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the Village Engineer.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
Village Engineer.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 meters) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or Village Engineer
approved jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if
pipe is installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous
or mechanical joints are of a type approved by the Village Engineer. Bell and
spigot type pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair; and
cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility.
 
Type of Facility                        Minimum Cover
Communication, cable or video service   18 to 24 inches (0.6 meters, as
lines                                   determined by Village Engineer)
Electric lines                          30 inches (0.8 meters)
Gas or petroleum products               30 inches (0.8 meters)
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                    protection
Water line                              Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                        protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 I.A.C. part 305 (formerly General Order
160 of the State Commerce Commission) entitled “Rules for Construction of
Electric Power and Communications Lines,” and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Deviations may be allowed
if there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy
guards for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities. Cable may be installed by trenching or
plowing; provided, that special consideration is given to boring in order to
minimize damage when crossing improved entrances and side roads. If a crossing
is installed by boring or jacking, encasement shall be provided between jacking
or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated only if: the crossing is installed
by the use of “moles,” “whip augers” or other approved method which compress
the earth to make the opening for cable installation; or the installation is by
the open trench method which is only permitted prior to roadway construction.
Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the Village Engineer. Weather permitting,
utilities shall bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten
business days after placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of “moles,” “whip augers” or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, part 192,
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 C.F.R. part 192), IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems, ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, stormwater sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.
      (6)   Ground mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 millimeters) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Village Engineer. With the approval of the
Village Engineer, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place
of vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted appurtenances shall be
painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, the requirements of the State
Commerce Commission or the standards established by other official regulatory
agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Village Engineer.
When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms or
other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other property.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
Village Engineer shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in
the construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the Village Engineer, be required to be discontinued when such operations would
create hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such
operations may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when
conditions are such that construction would result in extensive damage to the
right-of-way or other property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Village Engineer when
emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities within the corporate limits of the village shall contact J.U.L.I.E.
and ascertain the presence and location of existing above-ground and
underground facilities within the rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed
facilities. The Village Engineer will make village permit records available to
a utility for the purpose of identifying possible facilities. When notified of
an excavation or when requested by the Village Engineer or by J.U.L.I.E., a
utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities within 48
hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with the State
Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.20 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities; compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable state laws and
regulations and, additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village.
   (B)   Other utilities; tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed, pursuant to applicable state laws and regulations specifically
governing the same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The Village Engineer may
require the removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning
would leave them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The Village Engineer
may require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees
of special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles,
side arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
within the corporate limits of the village for any purpose, including the
control of growth, insects or disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Village Engineer that such spraying is the only practicable method of
vegetation control.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the Village
Engineer, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance or installation
of any village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or
upon, the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the Village Engineer, any utility that owns, controls or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the village, as the Village Engineer may determine to be necessary,
appropriate or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the village shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the village, the utility shall notify the Village Engineer of
such abandonment within 90 days. Following receipt of such notice, the Village
Engineer may direct the utility to remove all or any portion of the facility,
if the Village Engineer determines that such removal will be in the best
interest of the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the
Village Engineer does not direct the utility to remove that abandoned facility,
by its having given the Village Engineer the aforesaid notice of abandonment,
the abandoning utility shall be deemed to have consented to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.22 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer. This includes
restoration of entrances and side roads.
   (B)   Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using materials and
methods approved by the Village Engineer. Such cleanup and repair may be
required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding or any
other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially
equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the project. The
time period provided in this section may be extended by the Village Engineer
for good cause shown.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.23 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the Village Engineer and at the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way,
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Village Engineer or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file with the Village Engineer a
written description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48
hours after an emergency repair.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.24 DEVIATIONS.
   (A)   Request for deviation. A utility requesting a deviation from one or
more of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Village
Engineer as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each
provision of this chapter from which a deviation is requested and the reasons
why a deviation should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant deviations. The Village Engineer shall decide
whether a deviation is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified
in the deviation request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of deviation. The Village Engineer may
authorize a deviation only if the utility requesting the deviation has
demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a deviation is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting a deviation. As a condition for
authorizing a deviation, the Village Engineer may require the utility
requesting the deviation to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may
or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a deviation, made by the Village
Engineer under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to
the Village Board, or such other board or commission as it may designate. The
application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Village Clerk
within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement, decision or
determination. The Village Board shall commence its consideration of the appeal
at the Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least seven days
after the filing of the appeal. The Village Board shall timely decide the
appeal.
(Ord. 2008-0-2, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 151.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-0-4, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 151.26 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER ORDINANCES OR STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   (A)   This chapter supersedes all ordinances or parts thereof adopted prior
hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (B)   In the event that applicable federal or state laws or regulations
conflict with the requirements of this chapter, the utility shall comply with
the requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent possible without
violating federal or state laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2008-0-4, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fines in the amount
of $750 per day. There may be times when the village will incur delay or other
costs, including third party claims, because the utility will not or cannot
perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless the utility shows
that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action is
appropriate, the utility shall bear the village’s costs of damages and its
costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating or removing the
facility that is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or
commission may review or overrule a permit-related cost apportionment of the
village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that does not pay the costs
apportioned to it.
(Ord. 2008-0-4, passed 4-14-2008)
CHAPTER 152: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Historic Preservation Commission
   
152.04   Surveys and research
   
152.05   Landmarks
   
152.06   Historic District
   
152.07   Certificate of appropriateness
   
152.08   Certificate of economic hardship
   
152.09   Natural destruction or demolition
   
152.10   Fees
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the protection, enhancement,
perpetuation and use of improvements of special character or historical
interest or value in the interest of the health, prosperity, safety and welfare
of the people of the village by:
   (A)   Providing a mechanism to identify and preserve the historic and
architectural characteristics of the village which represent elements of the
village’s cultural, social, economic, political and architectural history;
   (B)   Promoting civic pride in the beauty and noble accomplishments of the
past as represented in the village’s landmarks and Historic Districts;
   (C)   Stabilizing and improving the economic vitality and value of the
village’s landmarks and historic areas;
   (D)   Protecting and enhancing the attractiveness of the village to
residents, visitors and shoppers; and
   (E)   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration of structures,
areas and neighborhoods and thereby preventing future urban blight.
(Ord. 1999-0-2, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITION. Any act or process which changes one or more of the exterior
architectural features of a structure designated for preservation by adding to,
joining with or increasing the size or capacity of the structure.
   ALTERATION. Any act or process that changes one or more of the exterior
architectural features of a structure, including, but not limited to, the
erection, construction, reconstruction or relocation of any structure.
   ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCE. Site where artifacts, features, structures and
organic and environmental remains are found together.
   AREA. A specific geographic division of the village.
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   BUILDING. Any structure created for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals or property of any kind and which is permanently affixed to
the land.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. A certificate from the Historic Preservation
Commission authorizing plans for alterations, construction, relocation or
demolition of a landmark or site within a designated Historic District.
   COMMISSION. The Village Historic Preservation Commission.
   COMMISSIONERS. Voting members of the Village Historic Preservation
Commission.
   CONSTRUCTION. The act of adding an addition and/or alteration to an existing
structure or the erection of a new principal or accessory structure on a lot or
property.
   DEMOLITION. Any act or process that destroys in part or in whole a landmark
or site within a Historic District.
   DESIGN GUIDELINE. A standard of appropriated activity that will preserve the
historic and architectural character of a structure or area.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE. The architectural and general composition
of the exterior of a structure, including, but not limited to, the kind, color
and the texture of the building material and the type, design and character of
all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs and appurtenant elements.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A district designated as a Historic District by ordinance
of the Village Board and which may contain within definable geographic
boundaries one or more landmarks and which may have within its boundaries other
properties or structures that, while not of such historic and/or architectural
significance to be designated as landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the
overall visual characteristics of the landmark or landmarks located within the
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   LANDMARK. Any building, structure or site which has been designated as a
landmark by ordinance of the Village Board, pursuant to procedures prescribed
herein, that is worthy of rehabilitation, restoration and preservation because
of its historic and/or architectural significance to the village.
   OWNER OF RECORD. The person, corporation or other legal entity listed as
owner on the records of the County Recorder of Deeds.
   REHABILITATION. The process of returning a property to a state of utility,
through repair or alteration, which makes possible an efficient contemporary
use while preserving those portions and features of the property which are
significant to its historic, architectural and cultural values.
   RELOCATION. Moving of a structure on its site or to another site.
   REPAIR. Any change that does not require a building permit, that is not
construction, relocation or alteration.
   STRUCTURAL CHANGE. Any change or repair in the supporting members of a
building, structure, roof or exterior walls which would expand the building in
height, width or bulk of the building.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent or temporary location on or in the ground, including, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, buildings, fences, gazebos,
advertising signs, billboards, backstops for tennis courts, radio and
television antennae, including supporting towers, swimming pools, satellite
dishes, solar panels and wind generation.
(Ord. 1999-0-2, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 152.03 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   The Village Historic Preservation Commission shall consist of three voting
members, at least one of which must be a resident of the Millburn Historic
Area, at least two of which must be residents of the Millburn Historic Area or
of the remaining village territory, and of which all three must be residents of
Lake County, Illinois. The voting members shall be appointed by the President
and approved by the Village Board. The Building Commissioner of the village or
his or her representative shall be an ex- officio, non-voting member of this
Commission.
   (A)   Qualifications. The members shall be appointed on the basis of
expertise, experience or interest in the area of architectural history,
building construction or engineering, finance, historical and architectural
preservation, neighborhood organizing or real estate.
   (B)   Terms. Members of the Commission shall be appointed for terms of two
years. Of those members first taking office, the two members who live within
Old Mill Creek shall be appointed for two years and the remaining member shall
be appointed for one year. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term
only. Members shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   Officers. Officers shall consist of a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson
and a secretary elected by the Preservation Commission who shall serve a term
of one year and shall be eligible for re-election. The Chairperson shall
preside over meetings. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson
shall perform the duties of the Chairperson. If both are absent, a temporary
Chairperson shall be elected by those present. The secretary to the
Preservation Commission shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Take minutes of each Preservation Commission meeting;
      (2)   Be responsible for publication and distribution of copies of the
minutes, reports and decisions of the Preservation Commission to the members of
the Preservation Commission 24 hours prior to the next meeting;
      (3)   Give notice as provided herein or by law for all public hearings
conducted by the Preservation Commission;
      (4)   Advise the President of vacancies on the Preservation Commission
and expiring terms of members; and
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the Village Board a complete record of the
proceedings before the Preservation Commission on any matter requiring Board
consideration.
   (D)   Meetings.
      (1)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members. All decisions
or actions of the Historic Preservation Commission shall be made by a majority
vote of those members present and voting at any meeting where a quorum exists.
Meetings shall be held at regularly scheduled times to be established by
resolution of the Commission at the beginning of each calendar year or at any
time upon the call of the Chairperson. There shall be a minimum of four
meetings per year.
      (2)   No member of the Historic Preservation Commission shall vote on any
matter that may materially or apparently affect the property, income or
business interest of that member. No action shall be taken by the Commission
that could in any manner deprive or restrict the owner of property in its use,
modification, maintenance, disposition or demolition until such owner shall
first have had the opportunity to be heard at public meeting of the
Preservation Commission, as provided herein. The Chairperson, and in his or her
absence the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses. All meetings of the Preservation Commission shall be open to the
public. The Preservation Commission keeps minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote, indicating such fact and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the Preservation Commission and shall be a public record.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the Village Historic
Preservation Commission shall be:
      (1)   To adopt its own procedural regulations;
      (2)   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify historically and
architecturally significant properties, structures and areas;
      (3)   To investigate and recommend to the Village Board the adoption of
ordinances designating properties or structures having special historic,
community or architectural value as landmarks;
      (4)   To investigate and recommend to the Village Board the adoption of
ordinances designating properties or structures having special historic,
community or architectural value as Historic Districts;
      (5)   To keep a register of all properties and structures that have been
designated as landmarks or Historic Districts, including all information
required for each designation;
      (6)   To determine an appropriate system of markers and make
recommendations for the design and implementation of specific markings of the
streets and routes leading from one landmark or Historic District to another;
      (7)   To advise owners of landmarks and property or structures within
Historic Districts on physical and financial aspects of preservation,
renovation, rehabilitation and reuse, and on procedures for inclusion on the
State or National Register of Historic Places;
      (8)   To inform and educate the citizens of the village concerning the
historic and architectural heritage of the village by publishing appropriate
maps, newsletters, brochures and pamphlets, and by holding programs and
seminars;
      (9)   To hold public hearings and to review applications for
construction, alteration, relocation or demolition affecting proposed or
designated landmarks or structures or Historic Districts and issue or deny
certificates of appropriateness for such actions;
      (10)   To require applicants to submit plans, drawings, elevations,
specifications and other information as may be necessary to make decisions;
      (11)   To develop specific guidelines for the alteration, demolition,
construction or relocation of landmarks or property and structures within
Historic Districts;
      (12)   To review proposed zoning amendments applications for special use
permits or variances that affect proposed or designated landmarks and Historic
Districts. Such review shall be made prior to the date of the hearing by the
Village Plan Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (13)   To administer on the behalf of the village any property or full or
partial interest in real property, including a conservation right, as that term
is used in 765 ILCS 120/1 et seq., which the village may have or accept as a
gift of otherwise upon designation by the Village Board;
      (14)   To accept and administer on behalf of the village, upon
designation by the Village Board, such gifts, grants and money as may be
appropriate for the purpose of this chapter;
      (15)   To call upon available village staff members as well as other
experts for technical advice;
      (16)   To testify before all boards and commissions, including the
Village Plan Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals, on any matter
affecting historically and architecturally significant property and landmarks;
and
      (17)   To periodically review the Village Comprehensive Plan and the
Village Development Code and to recommend to the Village Plan Commission and
the Village Board any amendments appropriate for the protection and continued
use of landmarks or property and structures within Historic Districts.
(Ord. 1999-0-2, passed 6-14-1999; Ord. 2025-3, passed 6-9-2025; Ord. 2025-4,
passed 8-1-2025)
§ 152.04 SURVEYS AND RESEARCH.
   (A)   (1)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall undertake an ongoing
survey and research effort in the village to identify neighborhoods, areas,
sites, structures and objects that have historic, community, architectural or
aesthetic importance, interest or value.
      (2)   As part of the survey, the Historic Preservation Commission shall
review and evaluate any prior surveys and studies by any unit of government or
private organization and compile appropriate descriptions, facts and
photographs.
   (B)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall identify potential
landmarks and adopt procedures to nominate them in groups based upon the
following criteria:
      (1)   The potential landmarks in one identifiable neighborhood or
district geographical area of the village;
      (2)   The potential landmarks associated with a particular person, event
or historical period;
      (3)   The potential landmarks of a particular architectural style or
school or of a particular architect, engineer, builder, designer or
craftsperson; and/or
      (4)   Such other criteria as may be adopted by the Preservation
Commission to assure systematic survey and nomination of all potential
landmarks within the village.
(Ord. 1999-0-2, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 152.05 LANDMARKS.
   Any person, group of persons or association, may apply to the Village
Historic Preservation Commission for the designation of a landmark.
Applications for a nomination shall be filed with the Village Clerk. Persons
wishing guidance or advice prior to completing an application may contact the
Historic Preservation Commission.
   (A)   Nomination of a landmark. At a minimum, the application should include
the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the property owner;
      (2)   The PIN, description and common street address of the property;
      (3)   A written statement describing the property and setting forth
reasons in support of the proposed designation;
      (4)   Documentation that the property owner has been notified or consents
to the application for designation;
      (5)   A list of significant exterior architectural features that should
be protected;
      (6)   A site plan and photographs of the landmark including a front, both
sides and rear elevation drawings; and
      (7)   A filing fee shall be included.
   (B)   Criteria for a landmark. Nominations shall be made to the Historic
Preservation Commission on a form provided by the Village Clerk. A filing fee
shall be required.
      (1)   The Commission shall, upon investigation as it deems necessary,
make a preliminary determination as to whether a property, structure or area
possesses the integrity of design, workmanship, materials, location, setting
and feeling and meets one or more of the following criteria:
         (a)   Significant value as part of the historic, heritage or cultural
characteristics of the community, county, state or nation;
         (b)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the development of the community, county, state or country;
         (c)   Representative of the distinguishing characteristics of
architecture inherently valuable for the study of a period, type, method of
construction or use of indigenous materials;
         (d)   Notable work of a master builder, designer, architect or artist
whose individual work has influenced the development of the community, county,
state or country;
         (e)   Its unique location or singular physical characteristics that
make it an established or familiar visual feature;
         (f)   Its character as a particularly fine or unique example of a
utilitarian structure, including, but not limited to, farmhouses, gas stations
or other commercial structures, with a high level of integrity or architectural
significance; and
         (g)   That the area that has yielded or may be likely to yield
information important in history or prehistory.
      (2)   A preliminary determination as to whether a property, structure or
area meets one or more of the foregoing criteria shall be made within 15 days
of filing of a nomination with the Commission.
   (C)   Designation procedure for a landmark.
      (1)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall schedule a public
hearing within 60 days after the filing of an application with the Commission.
      (2)   Any person, group of persons or association, including, but not
limited to, the Village Historic Preservation Commission, may request a
Historic Landmark designation for any structure, building or site within the
boundaries of the village which may have historic or architectural significance
as defined herein.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall supply, upon request, the application
forms. Completed forms shall be submitted to the Historic Preservation
Commission for its consideration.
      (4)   Notice of date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing shall
be sent by certified mail to owner(s) of record and to the nominator(s) as well
as to the adjoining property owners, not less than 15 nor more than 30 days
prior to the date of the hearing. A public hearing notice also shall be
published in a newspaper having general circulation in the village. The notice
shall state the location of the property and a statement summarizing how the
proposed landmark meets the criteria set forth in division (B) above.
      (5)   Upon receipt of the application, the secretary of the Commission
shall schedule a public hearing to be held within 45 days after preliminary
approval of application.
      (6)   During the public hearing, the Commission shall review and evaluate
the application according to the criteria established by ordinance.
      (7)   If the Historic Preservation Commission finds at the time that the
application merits further consideration, then the Commission may table the
request until its next regularly scheduled meeting.
      (8)   Legal notice shall be sent to the legal owner that a certificate of
appropriateness shall be required for alteration, construction, relocation or
demolition of a proposed landmark from the date when the nomination form is
presented to the Commission until the final disposition of the request. If the
Commission decides that the landmark should be designated, it shall do so by a
resolution passed by a majority of the Commission.
      (9)   A decision shall be made by the Historic Preservation Committee
within 30 days following the date of the closing of the public hearing. The
secretary of the Commission shall prepare the Commission’s recommendation and
all available information for submission to the Village Board within the same
30 days.
      (10)   The owner(s) of record shall be notified promptly by a letter
containing information of the Commission’s decision.
      (11)   A simple majority vote by the Village Board is necessary for
approval of a landmark designation. If the Village Board approves the
application for a designation, a notice will be sent to the property owner,
Historic Preservation Commission, the Building Department and the Village
Clerk’s office and shall be recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds. If the
Village Board denies the petition, no petitioner or applicant can file for 90
days to the secretary of the Commission.
      (12)   Buildings designated as Historic Landmarks shall be subject to the
guidelines of this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-0-2, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 152.06 HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   Nomination of a Historic District. Nominations shall be made to the
Historic Preservation Commission on a form provided by the Village Clerk. A
filing fee shall be required.
   (B)   Criteria for a Historic District. The following criteria shall be
utilized by the Village Historic Commission in determining the designation of
Historic Districts:
      (1)   The names and addresses of the property owners;
      (2)   A map delineating the boundaries of the area to be designated;
      (3)   A written statement describing the area and properties within the
Historic District and setting forth reasons in support of the proposed
designation;
      (4)   A list and photographs including all significant exterior
architectural features of all properties in the district that should be
protected;
      (5)   The Historic District contains one or more landmarks along with
such other buildings, places or areas within its definable geographic
boundaries which, while not of such historic significance to be designated as
landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the overall visual characteristics of the
landmark or landmarks located in such district;
      (6)   A significant number of structures meeting any of the standards of
§
152.05(B);
      (7)   Establishing a sense of time and place unique to the village;
      (8)   Exemplifying or reflecting the cultural, social, economic,
political or architectural history of the nation, the state or the village;
and/or
      (9)   A preliminary determination as to whether a district or an area
meets one or more of the foregoing criteria shall be made within 60 days of the
filing of a nomination with the Commission.
   (C)   Designation for a Historic District.
      (1)   Any person, group of persons or association, including, but not
limited to, the Village Historic Commission, may present to the Commission a
petition requesting that a defined geographic area be designated as a Historic
District. The Village Clerk shall supply, upon request, the application forms.
Completed forms shall be submitted to the Historic Preservation Commission for
its consideration. The petition shall contain the names of no less than 51% of
the property owners.
      (2)   Notice of date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing shall
be sent by certified mail to the owner(s) of record and to the nominator(s) as
well as to the adjoining property owners, not less than 15 nor more than 30
days prior to the date of the hearing. A public notice also shall be published
in a newspaper having general circulation in the village. The notice shall
state the location of the properties and a statement summarizing how the
proposed district meets the criteria set forth in division (B) above.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the application, the secretary of the Commission
shall schedule a public hearing to be held within 30 days from after
preliminary approval of application.
      (4)   During the public hearing, the Commission shall review and evaluate
the application according to the criteria established by ordinance.
      (5)   If the Historic Preservation Commission finds at the time that the
application merits further consideration, then the Commission may table the
request until its next regular scheduled meeting.
      (6)   A decision shall be made within 30 days following the date of the
closing of the public hearing.
      (7)   Following the public hearing, the secretary of the Commission shall
prepare the Commission’s evaluation, recommendation and all available
information for submission to the Village Board within 30 days.
      (8)   If the Commission decides that the proposed Historic District
should be designated, it shall do so by a resolution passed by a majority of
the Commission.
      (9)   The owner(s) of record shall be notified promptly by a letter
containing information of the Commission’s decision.
      (10)   A simple majority vote by the Village Board is necessary for
approval of an historic preservation designation. If the Village Board approves
the application for a designation, a notice will be sent to the property owner,
the Historic Preservation Commission, the Building Department and the Village
Clerk’s office and recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds that the area has
been designated as such and that buildings located within the boundaries of the
Historic District shall be subject to issuance of certificate of
appropriateness. If the Village Board denies the petition, no petitioner can
file for 90 days to the secretary of the Commission.
(Ord. 1999-0-2, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 152.07 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Certificate required.
      (1)   A certificate of appropriateness issued by the Commission shall be
required before a moving or building permit or demolition permit is issued for
any designated historic landmark or any building, structure or site or part
thereof in the Historic District. It is required if the building, structure or
site will be altered, extended or repaired in such a manner as to produce a
major change in the exterior appearance of such building or structure.
      (2)   Such major changes include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Major changes by addition, alteration, maintenance,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, renovation or repair;
         (b)   Any new construction and demolition in whole or in part
requiring a permit from the village;
         (c)   Moving a building;
         (d)   Any construction, alteration, demolition or removal affecting a
significant exterior architectural feature as specified in the ordinance
designating the landmark or Historic District; and
         (e)   An exception to the certificate of appropriateness shall be made
if the applicant shows to the Commission that a failure to grant the permit
will cause an imminent threat to life, health or property.
   (B)   Standards for certificate of appropriateness. In making a
determination whether to approve or deny an application for a certificate of
appropriateness, the Village Historic Preservation Commission shall be guided
by the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation, as follows.
      (1)   A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a
new use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the
building and its site environment.
      (2)   The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and
spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
      (3)   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development,
such as adding conjectural features or architectural elements from other
buildings, shall not be undertaken.
      (4)   Most properties change over time; those changes that have acquired
historic significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.
      (5)   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
that characterize a building, structure or site shall be treated with
sensitivity.
      (6)   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color,
texture and other visual qualities and where possible, materials. Replacement
of missing features shall be substantiated by documentary physical or pictorial
evidence.
      (7)   Any treatment, that causes damage to historic materials shall not
be used. The surface cleaning of the structure, if appropriate, shall be
undertaken using the gentlest means possible.
      (8)   Significant archaeological resources affected by a project shall be
protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures shall be undertaken.
      (9)   New additions, exterior alterations or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new
work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
      (10)   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
   (C)   Application for certificate of appropriateness. Every application for
a demolition permit or a building permit, including plans and specifications
shall be forwarded by the Building Department to the Historic Preservation
Commission within 15 days following receipt of the application by the Building
Department. The application for issuance of a certificate of appropriateness
must include:
      (1)   The street address of the property involved;
      (2)   The boundary description of the property involved;
      (3)   A brief description of the present improvements situated on the
property;
      (4)   A detailed description of the construction, alteration, demolition
or use proposed, together with architectural drawings or sketches if those
services have been utilized by the applicant. If not, the application must
include a sufficient description of the construction, alteration, demolition
and use;
      (5)   The owner’s name;
      (6)   The developer’s name, if different than the owner;
      (7)   The architect’s name; and
      (8)   The required filing fee.
   (D)   Design guidelines. Design guidelines for applying the criteria for
review of certificates of appropriateness shall, at a minimum, consider the
following architectural criteria.
      (1)   Height. The height of any proposed alteration or construction
should be compatible with the style and character of the landmark and with
surrounding structures in a Historic District.
      (2)   Proportions of windows and doors. The proportions and relationships
between doors and windows should be compatible with the architectural style and
character of the landmark.
      (3)   Relationship of building masses and spaces. The relationship of a
structure within a Historic District to the open space between it and adjoining
structures should be compatible.
      (4)   Roof shape. The design of the roof, facia and cornice should be
compatible with the architectural style and character of the landmark.
      (5)   Landscaping. Landscaping should be compatible with the
architectural character and appearance of the landmark.
      (6)   Scale. The scale of the structure after alteration, construction or
partial demolition should be compatible with its architectural style and
character and with surrounding structures in a Historic District.
      (7)   Directional expression. Facades in Historic Districts should blend
with other structures with regard to directional expression. Structures in a
Historic District should be compatible with the dominant horizontal or vertical
expression of surrounding structures. The directional expression of a landmark
after alteration, construction or partial demolition should be compatible with
its original architectural style and character.
      (8)   Architectural details. Architectural details, including types of
materials, colors and textures, should be treated so as to make the landmark
compatible with its original architectural style and character of a landmark or
Historic District.
      (9)   New structures. New structures in a Historic District shall be
compatible with the architectural styles and design, in said districts. For
reference, see the Village Development Code.
   (E)   Hearing on application. Applications for a certificate of
appropriateness are available from the Village Clerk. Such applications shall
be completed and returned to the Village Clerk and then forwarded to the
Village Historic Preservation Commission. The Commission shall review for
completeness and for appropriateness and then schedule a public meeting for
consideration of the application within 15 days of receipt of a completed
application. A public notice for consideration of the application shall be made
not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days before hearing, in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village, or, if the Historic Preservation Commission
finds at the time that the application needs further consideration, then the
Commission may table the request for up to 30 days.
   (F)   Issuance of a certificate of appropriateness. The Village Historic
Preservation Commission shall notify the applicants of its decision within five
days after the public meeting. Upon approval of the application, the Commission
shall issue a signed certificate of appropriateness to the applicant with
copies forwarded to the Building Department. A certificate of appropriateness
shall be invalid if changes in the documents reviewed by the Commission are
necessary in obtaining a building permit or if the building permit issued for
the same work becomes invalid. The certificate of appropriateness remains valid
for the same period of validity as the building permit (one year).
   (G)   Appeals for denial of a certificate of appropriateness. In the event
of denial of an application for a certificate of appropriateness, the
Commission shall notify the applicant in writing of the disapproval, and the
reasons therefor, and shall recommend changes, if any, in the proposed action
that would cause the Commission to reconsider its denial. Within 15 days of
receipt of the notification of disapproval, the applicant may resubmit an
amended application that takes into consideration the recommendations of the
Historic Preservation Commission. The application shall be considered to be
withdrawn if no written modification or request for public hearing is received.
Within 15 days of receipt of a written modification, the Commission must either
issue the certificate of appropriateness or hold a hearing.
   (H)   Findings on appeal. The Village Historic Preservation Commission shall
select a reasonable time and place for the hearing of the appeal and give due
notice of the hearing to the applicant by certified mail, said mailing to be
made at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. Notice of the time and
place of such public hearing shall be published at least once, not less than 15
days nor more than 30 days before the hearing, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village. The Chairperson shall conduct the hearing, and the
Village Historic Preservation Commission and the applicant shall have the right
to introduce evidence and cross-examine witnesses. A recorded or written
transcript of the hearing shall be made and kept. The Commission shall vote,
announce its decision, make its recommendation and notify the village and the
applicant within five days after the conclusion of the public hearing, unless
the time is extended by mutual agreement between the Commission and the
applicant. In the event of a denial of appeal by the Village Preservation
Commission, the applicant may appeal the decision to the Village Board, whose
decision in this matter shall be final, subject only to judicial review as
provided by law.
(Ord. 1999-0-2, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 152.08 CERTIFICATE OF ECONOMIC HARDSHIP.
   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this chapter to the contrary, the
Commission may issue a certificate of economic hardship to allow the
performance of work for which a certificate of appropriateness has been denied.
   (A)   Application. Applicants claiming economic hardship shall be required
to apply to the Village Board to determine eligibility for rehabilitation
assistance. The eligibility for and availability of financial aid shall be
considered by the Commission in making its decision. An applicant for a
certificate of economic hardship may submit any or all of the following
information in order to assist the Commission in making its determination on
the application:
      (1)   The amount paid for the property, the date of purchase and the
party from whom purchased (including a description of the relationship, if any,
between the owner and the person from whom the property was purchased);
      (2)   The assessed value of the land and improvements thereon according
to the two most recent assessments;
      (3)   Real estate taxes for the previous two years;
      (4)   Remaining balance on mortgage, if any, and annual debt service, if
any, for the previous two years;
      (5)   All appraisals obtained within the previous two years by the owner
or applicant in connection with this purchase, financing or ownership of the
property;
      (6)   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any;
      (7)   Any consideration by the owner as to profitable adaptive uses for
the property;
      (8)   If the property is income-producing, the annual gross income from
the property for the previous two years, itemized operating and maintenance
expenses for the previous two years and annual cash flow before and after debt
service, if any during the same period;
      (9)   Form of ownership or operation of the property, whether sole
proprietorship, for-profit or not-for-profit corporation, limited partnership,
joint venture or other; and
      (10)   Any other information, including the income tax bracket of the
owner, applicant or principal investors in the property, reasonably necessary
for a determination as to whether the property can be reasonably used or yield
a reasonable return to present or future owners.
   (B)   Relaxation of provisions. If the Commission finds that without
approval of the proposed work, the property cannot obtain a reasonable economic
return therefrom, then the application shall be delayed for a period not to
exceed three months. During this period of delay, the Commission shall
investigate plans and make recommendations to the Village Board to allow for a
reasonably beneficial use or a reasonable economic return or to otherwise
preserve the subject property. Such plans and recommendations may include, but
not be limited to, a relaxation of the provisions of this chapter, financial
assistance, building code modifications and/or changes in zoning regulations.
   (C)   Certificate issuance. If, by the end of this three-month period, the
Commission has found that without approval of the proposed work, the property
cannot be put to a reasonable beneficial use or the owner cannot obtain a
reasonable economic return therefrom, then the Commission shall issue a
certificate of economic hardship approving the proposed work. If the Commission
finds otherwise, it shall deny the application for a certificate of economic
hardship.
   (D)   Appeals.
      (1)   When a certificate of appropriateness or a certificate of economic
hardship is approved or denied for either a landmark or a structure within a
Historic District, the applicant or any interested party may, within 30 days,
appeal the Commission’s decision to the Village Board. The Board may receive
comments on the contents of the record but no new matter may be considered by
the Board. The Village Board may affirm the decision or recommend changes by a
majority vote of the Board after due consideration of the facts contained in
the record submitted to the Board by the Commission. The Board may overturn the
Commission’s decision by a majority vote of a quorum of the Board.
      (2)   If the Board decides that a certificate of economic hardship should
be issued, the secretary shall notify the applicant and the Building Department
within seven days of the Board’s decision, and the Building Department then
shall issue the permit within 15 days.
      (3)   If the Board concurs with the Commission’s decision not to issue a
certificate of economic hardship, the secretary shall notify the applicant by
certified mail and the Building Department within seven days.
(Ord. 1999-0-2, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 152.09 NATURAL DESTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION.
   (A)   In the case of partial or complete natural destruction or demolition
of a structure and/or site within an Historic Preservation District or of a
landmark, the owner will be required to obtain a certificate of appropriateness
from the Commission prior to reconstruction.
   (B)   Although exact duplication of the previous structure may not be
required, the exterior design of the property shall be in harmony with:
      (1)   The exterior design of the structure prior to damage; and
      (2)   The character of the Historic Preservation District.
(Ord. 1999-0-2, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 152.10 FEES.
   The Preservation Commission may establish an appropriate system of
processing fees for the review of nominations and certificates of
appropriateness.
(Ord. 1999-0-2, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who undertakes or causes an alteration, construction, demolition
or relocation of any nominated or designated landmark or property within a
nominated or designated landmark or designated Historic District without a
certificate of appropriateness shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more
than $500. Every day such violation shall continue to exist shall constitute a
separate violation. The Preservation Commission may institute any appropriate
action or proceeding in the name of the village to enjoin, correct or abate any
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-0-2, passed 6-14-1999)
CHAPTER 153: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
153.01   Purpose and scope
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Permitted use
   
153.04   Permit required
   
153.05   Landscape screening
   
153.06   Alternate placements
   
153.07   Height limitations
   
153.08   Requirements
   
153.09   Completeness of application
   
153.10   Application process
   
153.11   Tolling
   
153.12   Consolidated applications
   
153.13   Collocation completion deadline
   
153.14   Duration of permits
   
153.15   Means of submitting applications
   
153.16   Application fees
   
153.17   Exceptions to applicability
   
153.18   Annual recurring rate
   
153.19   Aerial facilities
   
153.20   Abandonment
   
153.21   Transfers
   
153.22   Indemnification
   
153.23   Insurance
§ 153.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act, Public Act 100-0585.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Otherwise, all terms in this chapter have the meaning provided in § 10 of the
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (Public Act 100-0585).
   ALTERNATIVE ANTENNA STRUCTURE. An existing pole or other structure within
the public right-of-way that can be used to support an antenna and is not a
utility pole or a village-owned infrastructure.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless communications
services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing or mechanical
codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to
those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to an authority for a
permit to collocate small wireless facilities, which may include a request that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well
as any applicable fee for the review of such application.
   AUTHORITY. A unit of local government that has jurisdiction and control for
use of public rights-of-way as provided by the State Highway Code (605 ILCS 5)
for placements within public rights-of-way or has zoning or land use control
for placements not within public rights-of-way.
   AUTHORITY UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by an authority in
public rights-of-way.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace small wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support
structure or utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(33), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS). A type of personal wireless
telecommunication facility consisting of a network of spatially separated
antenna nodes connected to a common source via a transport medium that provides
wireless service within a geographic area. Generally serves multiple carriers.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property or site, or
group of buildings, properties or sites that are either listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with §§ VI.D.l.a.i through
VI.D.l.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement, codified in 47 C.F.R. part
1, Appendix C; or designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site
or Historic District by an ordinance adopted by the authority pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the State Historic Preservation Office or where such
certification of the preservation program by the state.
   LANDSCAPE SCREENING. The installation of at-grade plantings, shrubbery,
bushes or other foliage intended to screen the base of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility from general public view.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MONOPOLE. A structure composed of a single spire, pole or tower designed and
used to support antennas or related equipment and that is not a utility pole,
an alternative antenna structure or a village-owned infrastructure.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by an authority to perform an
action or initiate, continue or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust or other entity or organization, including an authority.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNA. An antenna that is part of a
personal wireless telecommunications facility.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT. Equipment, exclusive of an
antenna, that is part of a personal wireless telecommunications facility.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY. An antenna, equipment and
related improvements used, or designed to be used, to provide wireless
transmission of voice, data, video streams, images or other information,
including, but not limited to, cellular phone service, personal communication
service, paging and Wi-Fi antenna service.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical or other emergency services to respond
to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley or public utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include authority-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL CELL FACILITIES. A personal wireless telecommunications facility
consisting of an antenna and related equipment either installed singly or as
part of a network to provide coverage or enhance capacity to the village in a
limited defined area. Generally single-service provider installation.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and all other wireless
equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the facility is
cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-
off switch and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services. Applicants shall be required to provide satisfactory proof to the
village that they meet or exceed both of these limitations.
   TOWER. Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice
towers, guy towers or monopole towers, and that is not a utility pole, an
alternative antenna structure or a village-owned infrastructure. Except as
otherwise provided for by this chapter, the requirements for a TOWER and
associated antenna facilities shall be those required in this chapter.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control or a similar function.
   VARIANCE or VARIATION. A grant of relief by the Village President or his or
her designee.
   VILLAGE-OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE. Infrastructure in public rights-of-way within
the boundaries of the village, including, but not limited to, streetlights,
traffic signals, towers, structures or buildings owned, operated or maintained
by the village.
   WI-FI ANTENNA. An antenna used to support Wi-Fi broadband Internet access
service based on the IEEE 802.11 standard that typically uses unlicensed
spectrum to enable communication between devices.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
equipment associated with wireless communications; and radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies and
comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration. WIRELESS
FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does not
include: the structure or improvements on, under or within which the equipment
is collocated; or wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable
that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial; or
fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but is
acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the authority.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.03 PERMITTED USE.
   Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses when located
on real property and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
herein regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to zoning
review or approval if they are collocated in rights-of-way in any zone or
outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial or
industrial use.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   An applicant is required to obtain one or more permits from the village to
collocate a small wireless facility. An application is received and processed
and permits are issued subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
authority utility poles for future public safety uses, but a reservation of
space may not preclude the collocation of a small wireless facility unless the
village reasonably determines that the authority utility pole cannot
accommodate both uses.
   (B)   Application requirements.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall be required to provide the following
information when seeking a permit to collocate small wireless facilities on a
utility pole or wireless support structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for an authority utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989 (225 ILCS
340/4);
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type, model numbers and size for the antennas and
all other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the
requirements herein to the best of the applicant’s knowledge.
      (2)   Personal wireless telecommunication facilities can only be mounted
to village-owned infrastructure, including, but not limited to, streetlights,
traffic signal, towers or buildings, if authorized by a license or other
agreement between the owner and the village. In the event that the proposed
small wireless facility is to be attached to an existing pole owned by an
entity other than the village or attached to an existing pole located on public
right-of-way that may be part of a larger property that is paying real estate
taxes, or a new structure to be located on public right-of-way that may be part
of a larger property that is paying real estate taxes, the wireless provider
shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of the owner or real
estate tax payer of such existing pole to the proposed collocation or the new
pole to be located on public right-of-way that may be part of a larger property
that is paying real estate taxes.
      (3)   Personal wireless telecommunication facilities, including all
related equipment and appurtenances, must be a color that blends with the
surroundings of the pole, structure tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted and use non-reflective materials which blend with the materials and
colors of the surrounding area and structures. Any wiring must be covered with
an appropriate cover.
      (4)   A personal wireless telecommunication antenna may include a cap or
other antenna panel covering or shield, to the extent such covering would not
result in a larger or more noticeable facility, and, if proposed, such covering
must be of a color that blends with the color of the pole, structure, tower or
infrastructure on which it is mounted.
      (5)   No guy or other support wires will be used in connection with a
personal wireless telecommunication facility unless the facility is to be
attached to an existing utility pole, alternative antenna support structure,
tower or village-owned infrastructure that incorporated guy wires prior to the
date that an applicant has applied for a permit.
      (6)   Other than signs required by law or regulations or identification
and location markings, installation of signs on a personal wireless
telecommunication facility are prohibited.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.05 LANDSCAPE SCREENING.
   (A)   Landscape screening, when permitted in the right-of-way, must be
provided with a clearance of three feet in all directions from the base of the
facility. For a covered structure, the maximum reasonably achievable screening
must be provided between such facility and the view from adjoining properties
and public or private streets.
   (B)   In lieu of the operator installing the screening, the village, at its
sole discretion, may accept a fee from the operator of the facility for the
acquisition, installation or maintenance of landscaping material by the
village.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.06 ALTERNATE PLACEMENTS.
   (A)   With respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless
facility associated with a new utility pole, the village may propose that the
small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed collocation, which
the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the alternate structure
on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate location and structure
does not impose technical limits or additional material costs as determined by
the applicant.
   (B)   No new monopole or other tower to support personal wireless
telecommunication facilities in excess of 45 feet is permitted to be installed
on rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the village unless the Village
Board finds, based on clear and convincing evidence provided by the applicant,
that locating the personal wireless telecommunications facilities on the right-
of-way is necessary to close a significant coverage in the applicant’s services
or to otherwise provide adequate services to customers, and the proposed new
monopole or other tower within the right-of-way is the least intrusive means to
do so.
   (C)   The village may require the applicant to provide a written
certification describing the property rights, technical limits or material cost
reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the criteria in this section.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.07 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The village shall limit the maximum height of a small wireless
facility to ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on
which the small wireless facility is collocated.
   (B)   Subject to any applicable waiver, zoning or other process that
addresses wireless provider requests for an exception or variance and does not
prohibit granting of such exceptions or variances, the village shall limit the
height of new or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on
which small wireless facilities are collocated to the higher of:
      (1)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole, other
than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place on
the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village; provided, that the village may designate which intersecting right-of-
way within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
      (2)   Forty-five feet above ground level.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.08 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless facilities
shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for
public safety communications. A wireless provider shall install small wireless
facilities of the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable
interference with a public safety agency’s communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency. If a small wireless facility causes such interference,
and the wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by
the public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall take
all reasonable steps necessary to correct and eliminate the interference,
including, but not limited to, powering down the small wireless facility and
later powering up the small wireless facility for intermittent testing, if
necessary. The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not making a good faith
effort to remedy the problem in a manner consistent with the abatement and
resolution procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established
by the FCC, including 47 C.F.R. §§ 22.970 through 22.973 and 47 C.F.R. §§
90.672 through 90.675.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall comply with requirements that are imposed
by a contract between the village and a private property owner that concern
design or construction standards applicable to utility poles and ground-mounted
equipment located in the right-of-way.
   (C)   The wireless provider shall comply with applicable spacing
requirements in applicable codes and ordinances concerning the location of
ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way if the requirements
include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses wireless provider
requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit granting of such
exceptions or variances.
   (D)   The wireless provider shall comply with local code provisions or
regulations concerning undergrounding requirements that prohibit the
installation of new or the modification of existing utility poles in a right-
of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or
other process that addresses requests to install such new utility poles or
modifies such existing utility poles and does not prohibit the replacement of
utility poles.
   (E)   The wireless provider shall comply with generally applicable standards
that are consistent with Public Act 100-0585 and adopted by the village for
construction and public safety in the rights-of-way, including, but not limited
to, reasonable and nondiscriminatory wiring and cabling requirements, grounding
requirements, utility pole extension requirements and signage limitations. Such
requirements shall be those contained in this code, or those included as
conditions of permit approval at the time of permit review. The Public Works
Director and Village Engineer are authorized and directed to establish any such
required or recommended permit conditions.
   (F)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities on
village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or transmission
system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or the electric
supply zone of the pole. However, the antenna and support equipment of the
small wireless facility may be located in the communications space on the
village utility pole and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable,
if the wireless provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the
top of the pole. For the purpose of this division (F), the terms COMMUNICATIONS
SPACE, COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   (G)   The wireless provider shall comply with the applicable codes and local
code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
   (H)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards that
are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable stealth,
concealment and aesthetic requirements that are identified by the village in an
ordinance, written policy adopted by the governing board of the authority, a
comprehensive plan or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers
of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a Historic
District.
   (I)   Subject to §
153.03, and except for facilities excluded from evaluation for effects on
historic properties under 47 C.F.R. § 1.1307(a)(4), the village requires
reasonable, technically feasible and nondiscriminatory design or concealment
measures in a Historic District or historic landmark. Any such design or
concealment measures, including restrictions on a specific category of poles,
may not have the effect of prohibiting any provider’s technology. Such design
and concealment measures shall not be considered a part of the small wireless
facility for purposes of the size restrictions of a small wireless facility.
This division (I) may not be construed to limit an authority’s enforcement of
historic preservation in conformance with the requirements adopted pursuant to
the State Agency Historic Resources Preservation Act (20 ILCS 3420) or the
National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 54 U.S.C. §§ 300101 et seq., and
the regulations adopted to implement those laws.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.09 COMPLETENESS OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the village must
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the village must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the village fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after when all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the village’s permit
application form are submitted by the applicant to the village.
   (B)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.10 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   The village shall process applications as follows.
   (A)   The first completed application shall have priority over applications
received by different applicants for collocation on the same utility pole or
wireless support structure.
   (B)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 90 days. However, if an applicant intends to
proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant
must notify the village in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed
approved remedy no sooner than 75 days after the submission of a completed
application. The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the ninetieth
day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
   (C)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that includes
the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days. However, if an applicant intends to
proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant
must notify the village in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed
approved remedy no sooner than 105 days after the submission of a completed
application. The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the one
hundred twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth
day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt
of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   The village shall approve an application unless the application
does not meet the requirements of this chapter. If the village determines that
applicable codes, local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety, or the requirements of §
153.09 require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced
before the requested collocation, approval may be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the provider. The village must document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial was
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
village denies an application.
      (2)   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the village
and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial
is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The
village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. However, the
applicant must notify the village in writing of its intention to proceed with
the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted with
the resubmitted application. Any subsequent review shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application cure does
not apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.11 TOLLING.
   The time period for applications may be further tolled by: the express
agreement in writing by both the applicant and the village; or a local, state
or federal disaster declaration or similar emergency that causes the delay.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.12 CONSOLIDATED APPLICATIONS.
   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities within the
jurisdiction of a single authority shall be allowed to file a consolidated
application and receive a single permit for the collocation of up to 25 small
wireless facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same
type of small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the village may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.13 COLLOCATION COMPLETION DEADLINE.
   (A)   Collocation for which a permit is granted shall be completed within
180 days after issuance of the permit unless the village and the wireless
provider agree to extend this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work
for an authority utility pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul
availability at the site; provided, that the wireless provider has made a
timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the permit for commercial
power or backhaul services and the additional time to complete installation
does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit
shall be void unless the village grants an extension in writing to the
applicant. The applicant shall provide documentation to the village evidencing
its compliance with these timelines upon request, and the failure or refusal of
the applicant to provide such documentation shall constitute grounds for
voiding a permit.
   (B)   A permit which is issued and for which construction is not timely
implemented and completed as required herein shall be void and of no further
force or effect after the passage of the time periods described above, without
requirement of any village notice or due process.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.14 DURATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of five years, and the
permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the village makes a
finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or modified utility pole
do not comply with the applicable codes or local code provisions or
regulations.
   (B)   If Public Act 100-0585 is repealed as provided in § 90 of the Act,
renewals of permits shall be subject to the applicable authority code
provisions or regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.15 MEANS OF SUBMITTING APPLICATIONS.
   Applicants shall submit applications, supporting information and notices by
personal delivery only, with an electronic copy of all plans and documents
provided to the village in the format required by the Public Works Director.
The village may require that permits, supporting information and notices be
submitted by personal delivery at the village’s designated place of business.
Fifteen paper copies of all documents submitted for permit application shall be
provided at the time of delivery of the personally delivered application.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.16 APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   Application fees are subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   The village will charge an application fee of $650 for an
application to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure and $350 for each small wireless
facility addressed in an application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      (2)   The village will charge an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section must be accompanied by the
required application fee.
   (B)   The village shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way for:
      (1)   Routine maintenance;
      (2)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with the requirements under division (A) above; or
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
However, the village shall require a permit to work within rights-of-way for
activities that affect traffic patterns or require lane closures. Such permit
shall be required under the provisions of this chapter as contemplated by the
remaining portions thereof.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.17 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
   (A)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole, or wireless support
structure, without the consent of the property owner;
   (B)   Property owned, leased or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the State Highway Code; or
   (C)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201 of the
State Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter rail
service, or an electric utility as defined in § 16-102 of the Public Utilities
Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service or
electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an electric or
gas public utility or such utility’s wireless facilities if the facilities are
being used, developed and maintained consistent with the provisions of
subsection (i) of § 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act. For the purpose of
this division (C), PUBLIC UTILITY has the meaning given to that term in § 3-105
of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
relieve any person from any requirement:
      (1)   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service; or
      (2)   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.18 ANNUAL RECURRING RATE.
   (A)   The village shall charge an annual recurring rate to collocate a small
wireless facility on a village utility pole located in a right-of-way that
equals $200 per year or the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the
wireless provider’s use of space on the village utility pole.
   (B)   Rates for collocation on village utility poles located outside of a
right-of-way are not subject to these limitations and shall be imposed by the
village by virtue of a separate colocation agreement between the village and a
given provider.
   (C)   Collocation on other village-owned facilities shall also require a
separate colocation agreement between the village and the provider.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.19 AERIAL FACILITIES.
   For village utility poles that support aerial facilities used to provide
communications services or electric service, wireless providers shall comply
with the process for make-ready work under 47 U.S.C. § 224 and its implementing
regulations.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.20 ABANDONMENT.
   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period of 12
months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of the facility must remove
the small wireless facility, within 90 days after receipt of written notice
from the village notifying the owner of the abandonment. The notice shall be
sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, by the village
to the owner at the last known address of the owner. If the small wireless
facility is not removed within 90 days of such notice, the village may remove
or cause the removal of such facility pursuant to the terms of its pole
attachment agreement for authority utility poles or through whatever actions
are provided for abatement of nuisances or by other law for removal and cost
recovery. Any owner of such a facility shall, upon request, provide
documentation to the village evidencing its full compliance with the terms of
this chapter, including, but not limited to, evidence of ongoing operation or
abandonment.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.21 TRANSFERS.
   Any wireless provider operating small wireless facilities under the terms of
this chapter shall be required to provide written notice to the village if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdictional boundary
of the village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of
the new wireless provider and such other information as the Public Works
Director shall require.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.22 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village harmless against
any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
authority improvements or rights-of-way associated with such improvements by
the wireless provider or its employees, agents or contractors arising out of
the rights and privileges granted under this chapter and Public Act 100-0585. A
wireless provider shall further waive any claims that it may have against the
village with respect to consequential, incidental or special damages, however
caused, based on any theory of liability. Under no circumstances shall the
village be liable to a wireless provider for any lost profits, property damage,
replacement or restoration of collocated wireless provider equipment.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 153.23 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Any wireless provider operating small wireless facilities under the
terms of this chapter shall be required to implement and maintain, at the
wireless provider’s own cost and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Worker’s compensation insurance, as required by law; and
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the authority improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of authority
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall name the village as an additional primary
named insured on the commercial general liability policy, without right of
subrogation and provide certification and documentation of inclusion of the
village in a commercial general liability policy as reasonably required by the
village.
(Ord. 2018-0-3, passed 8-20-2018)
CHAPTER 154: WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
154.01   County Watershed Development Ordinance adopted
§ 154.01 COUNTY WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set out herein, that
certain ordinance known as the Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance,
approved as amended by the County of Lake, State of Illinois, three copies of
which have been, for a period of not less than 30 days prior to the effective
date hereof, and now are on file in the office of the Deputy Village Clerk.
   (B)   In the event that the rules, regulations, terms or conditions imposed
pursuant to the Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable rules, regulations, terms or
conditions imposed by any other applicable rule, regulation, resolution,
ordinance, statute or law, then the most restrictive rules, regulations, terms
or conditions shall govern.
(Ord. 2013-0-2, passed 8-12-2013)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
   
155.01   Compliance required
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Procedure
   
155.04   Preliminary plat
   
155.05   Final plat
   
155.06   Agreements as to improvements
   
155.07   Required land improvements
   
155.08   Parks, school sites and other public areas
   
155.09   Lot size and area
   
155.10   Ground floor area of dwellings
   
155.11   Occupancy permits
   
155.12   Building permit required for construction
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No plat or subdivision of land within the village or within one and one-half
miles of the corporate limits thereof shall be approved excepting in full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11- -1964)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way which affords a secondary means of access to abutting
property.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land, so
designated on the plat of the proposed subdivision, between which, and the
adjacent boundary of the street upon which the lot abuts, the erection of an
enclosed structure or portion thereof is prohibited.
   BUTT LOTS. Lots the rear lot lines of which abut the side lot lines of other
lots platted in the same block and not separated therefrom by an alley or other
open space.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from minor streets to the
major street system, including the principal entrance streets of residence
development and the primary circulating streets within such a development.
   CROSSWALK. A public or private right-of-way across a block to be used by
pedestrians and or for underground utilities.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street having one open end and being terminated at the
other by a vehicular turnaround.
   EASEMENT. The quantity of land set aside or over which a liberty, privilege
or advantage in land without profit, existing distinct from the ownership of
the land, is granted to the public or some particular person or part of the
public.
   FINAL PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision which has been accurately
surveyed, and such survey marked on the ground so that streets, alleys, blocks,
lots and other divisions thereof can be identified.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of the lot measured along the minimum building setback
line, except for lots which front on the concave side of a curving street,
where the width of lot shall be measured 60 feet back from the front lot line.
   MAJOR STREET. A public thoroughfare with a high degree of traffic continuity
having a width established at 80 feet or more by the thoroughfare plan
established in the official plan of the village.
   OWNER. Includes the plural as well as the singular and may mean either a
natural person, firm, association, partnership, private corporation, public or
quasi-public corporation or combination of any of them.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The Village Plan Commission.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A map or plan of a proposed land division or subdivision.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords primary access by
pedestrians and vehicles to abutting property.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land;
provided, however, that divisions of land for agricultural purposes, in parcels
of five acres or more not involving the development or construction of any non-
agricultural buildings or any new street or easement of access, shall be
exempted.
   TENTATIVE APPROVAL. An approval with or without recommended alterations
given to a preliminary plat by the Plan Commission and provides the necessary
authority to proceed with the preparation and presentation of the final plat.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Old Mill Creek, Illinois.
(Ord. passed 11- -1964)
§ 155.03 PROCEDURE.
   Before subdividing any tract of land, a subdivider shall:
   (A)   File, at least ten days before a regular Plan Commission meeting, five
copies of the preliminary plat to the Plan Commission for examination and
subsequent recommendations of approval or disapproval. The Plan Commission
shall, within 15 days from the date of the next regular or special Plan
Commission meeting following such filing, forward its recommendations for
approval or disapproval to the Village Board;
   (B)   Within one year after receiving tentative approval of the preliminary
plat by the Plan Commission, the original and five copies of the final plat
shall be submitted to the Plan Commission for recommended final approval by the
Village Board;
   (C)   After receiving recommended final approval by the Plan Commission, the
original and one copy of the final plat shall be presented to the Village Board
for its final approval; and
   (D)   Following final approval by the Village Board, the final plat as
approved may be legally recorded in compliance with the laws of the state.
Approval of the final plat by the Village Board shall be null and void if the
plat is not recorded within 90 days after the date of approval, unless
application for an extension of time is made in writing during said 90-day
period to the Village Board and granted.
(Ord. passed 11- -1964)
§ 155.04 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The preliminary plat shall contain the information herein specified and
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Description and delineation:
      (1)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
      (2)   Location of the subdivision by section, township and range or by
other legal description;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the owner and the designer of the
subdivision; and
      (4)   Date of preparation, scaled 100 feet to the inch and Northpoint
(designated as true North).
   (B)   Existing conditions:
      (1)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision indicated by solid heavy line
and the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby;
      (2)   Location, width and names of all existing or prior platted streets
or other public ways, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks and other
public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, houses or permanent
easements and section and corporation lines, within and adjacent to the tract;
      (3)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground
facilities within the tract and to a distance of at least 100 feet beyond the
tract boundaries indicating pipe sizes, grades, manholes and exact location;
      (4)   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided or subdivided
land, showing ownership where possible; and
      (5)   Contour at vertical intervals of not more than two feet. High water
levels of all water courses, if any, shall be indicated in same datum used for
contour elevations.
   (C)   Proposed subdivision plan:
      (1)   Layout of streets showing location and widths of streets,
crosswalks and easements;
      (2)   Layout, numbers and typical dimensions of lots;
      (3)   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use or set aside for use of property owners in the subdivision;
      (4)   Building setback lines, showing dimensions;
      (5)   Easements for public utilities where alleys are not provided; and
      (6)   Typical street cross-sections.
(Ord. passed 11- -1964)
§ 155.05 FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat shall contain all information required on the preliminary
plat (except contours) plus the following: description and delineation:
   (A)   Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and
curves used to describe boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be
reserved for public use and other important features;
   (B)   An identification system for all lots and blocks and names of streets.
Lot lines to show dimensions in feet and hundredths;
   (C)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines or
official monuments (not less than three) which shall be accurately described in
the plat;
   (D)   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and
lengths of all arcs;
   (E)   Accurate location of all monuments, which shall be concrete, six
inches by 30 inches, with iron pipe cast in center. Permanent stone or concrete
monuments shall be set at each corner or angle on the outside boundary. Pipes
or other physical markers shall be placed at each intersection of street
centerlines. All U.S., state, county or other official benchmarks, monuments or
triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property, shall be preserved in
precise position;
   (F)   Pipes or other physical markers shall be placed at each lot corner;
   (G)   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be dedicated
or reserved for public use with the purposes indicated thereon, and of any area
to be reserved by deed, covenant for common uses of all property owners;
   (H)   Certification by a licensed surveyor to the effect that the plat
represents a survey made by him or her and that monuments and markers shown
thereon exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic details are
correct;
   (I)   Notarized certification, by owner or by any mortgage holder on record,
of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other public
areas;
   (J)   Certifications showing that all taxes and special assessments due on
the property to be subdivided have been paid in full;
   (K)   Proper form for the approval by the Village Board with space for
signatures;
   (L)   Approval by signature of village, county and state officials concerned
with the specification of utility installations; and
   (M)   Approval by signature of the Plan Commission. This approval of the
final plat shall not be deemed to constitute or affect an acceptance by the
public of the dedication of any street or other proposed public way or space
shown on the plat.
(Ord. passed 11- -1964)
§ 155.06 AGREEMENTS AS TO IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The final plat to be placed on record shall be accompanied by a
statement signed by the owner and subdivider, setting forth the following:
      (1)   Plans and specifications for such improvements previously approved
by the Village Engineer clearly describing the same; and
      (2)   An agreement executed by the owner and subdivider wherein they
agree to make and install the improvements provided for in §
155.08, in accordance with the plans and specifications accompanying the final
plat and that all such improvements shall be inspected during the course of
construction by an inspector appointed by the Village Board, salaries and other
costs in connection with such inspections to be paid by the owner and
subdivider, such costs to be based on the reasonable, customary charges for
such service.
   (B)   In the event that the Village Board, by motion, approves the action of
the Plan Commission in approving the final plat, it shall withhold its approval
of the plat until an agreement signed by the subdivider, as provided in
division (A)(2) above, shall be given, supported by a bond executed by an
acceptable surety company in an amount equal to the estimated cost of
construction of the required improvements (which estimated cost shall be
determined by the Village Engineer). The surety will be subject to the
condition that the improvements will be completed within two years after
approval of the final plat. As an alternative, the subdivider may deposit cash
with the village in place of said surety bond.
(Ord. passed 11- -1964)
§ 155.07 REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS.
   No final plat of subdivision of land shall be approved without receiving a
statement signed by the Village Engineer certifying that the improvements
described in the subdivider’s plans and specifications, together with
agreements, meet the minimum requirements of all ordinances of the village and,
as established by the Village Engineer, that they comply with the following.
   (A)   Sewers.
      (1)   Sanitary sewers shall be installed to serve all properties in the
subdivision.
      (2)   Storm sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision
to carry off water from all inlets and catch basins and be connected to an
adequate outfall. The stormwater drainage system shall be separate and
independent of the sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   Street improvements.
      (1)   Grades of streets shall not be in excess of 3% on major or
collector streets, nor in excess of 5% on other streets.
      (2)   All streets within the corporate limits of the village other than
state and county highways shall be improved with pavements bounded by integral
concrete curbs and gutters, to an overall width in accordance with the
following minimum dimensions.
 
Type of Street Dedicated Street Width  Pavement Width
Collector      60 feet                 26 feet
Cul-de-sac     50 feet                 26 feet
Major          Conform to thoroughfare Conform to thoroughfare plan
 
      (3)   Pavements shall be six-inch thick Portland cement concrete or be
surfaced with bituminous concrete not less than two inches thick over a base of
crushed stone or gravel installed in two courses, not less than eight inches
thick after compaction.
      (4)   Curbs and gutters on minor residential streets shall be concrete of
the integral rolled type unit, not less than 18 inches in over-all width, and
not less than six inches thick where curb abuts the street pavement.
      (5)   Stormwater inlets and catch basins shall be provided within the
roadway improvement at points specified by the Village Engineer.
      (6)   All curb corners shall have a radius of not less than 15 feet and
at intersections involving collector or major streets of not less than 25 feet.
      (7)   In subdivisions outside the corporate area, but within the one and
one-half mile area, street improvements shall conform to standards of
improvements as outlined in this chapter for subdivisions within the corporate
area.
   (C)   Public utilities.
      (1)   All utility lines for telephone and electric service shall be
placed in rear-line easements when carried on overhead poles.
      (2)   Where telephone and electric service lines are placed underground
entirely throughout a subdivided area, said conduits or cables shall be placed
within easements or dedicated public ways in a manner which will not conflict
with other underground services. Further, all transformer boxes shall be
located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
   (D)   Sidewalks. Concrete sidewalks to a width of not less than five feet
offset one foot from the abutting lot lines shall be required.
(Ord. passed 11- -1964)
§ 155.08 PARKS, SCHOOL SITES AND OTHER PUBLIC AREAS.
   Where a proposed park, playground, school site or other public use area
shown in the general village plan for the village and adjacent unincorporated
areas within one and one-half miles from the corporate limits is located in
whole or in part in a subdivision, the Plan Commission or the Village Board may
require the reservation of such area, in whole or in part, within such
subdivision. The acquisition of such area shall be secured and the securing
thereof commenced within one year from the date of approval of the final plat.
If such area has not been secured or if proceedings to secure such area have
not been commenced within one year from the date of the approval of the final
plat, then the area so designated may be used by the owners thereof in any
manner consistent with the ordinances of the village, including, but not
limited to, this chapter, the official map and Chapter 156.
(Ord. passed 11- -1964)
§ 155.09 LOT SIZE AND AREA.
   See the Development Code for details.
(Ord. passed 11- -1964)
§ 155.10 GROUND FLOOR AREA OF DWELLINGS.
   See the Development Code for details.
(Ord. passed 11- -1964)
§ 155.11 OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   See the Development Code for details.
(Ord. passed 11- -1964; Ord. 1995-0-1, passed 2-13-1995)
§ 155.12 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   As a condition of the issuance of a building permit for the construction of
a residence, the building permit applicant shall be required to donate monies
to the village as follows.
   (A)   The applicant for a building permit shall pay to the village the sum
of $400 per permit on behalf of and for the benefit of the Elementary School
District in which the property for which the permit is sought is located.
   (B)   The elementary school district that is located within the village is
Millburn Community Consolidated School District 24.
   (C)   Said money shall be forwarded by the village to the appropriate
elementary school district for its general operation fund at the time of
issuance of a certificate of occupancy. This payment is designed to partially
reimburse the School District for expenditures made on behalf of new pupils
from new residences within the village.
(Ord. 79-0-, passed 8-21-1979)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined not more than $500 for each offense.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to comply with any of the requirements of §
155.11(B) shall constitute a violation, and any person upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $200 for each offense, or imprisoned in the County
Jail for a period of not more than six months, or both. Proceedings may be
commenced by warrant, arrest or summons. Each day the violation continues shall
be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises or part
thereof and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who
commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violations may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and subject to the above penalties.
      (3)   The village may also take other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 11- -1964; Ord. 1995-0-1, passed 2-13-1995)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Title; scope
   
156.02   Incidental uses
   
156.03   Temporary uses
   
156.04   Exceptions and restrictions
   
156.05   Applications and permits
   
156.06   Definitions
Districts
   
156.20   Village divided into districts
   
156.21   R-1 Districts
   
156.22   R-2 Districts
   
156.23   R-3 Districts
   
156.24   R-4 Districts
   
156.25   C Districts
   
156.26   M Districts
   
156.27   B-1 Districts
   
156.28   I-1 Districts
Uses and Standards
   
156.40   Airports and landing fields
   
156.41   Nonconforming uses and buildings
   
156.42   Minimum setback from the front road or street
   
156.43   Minimum side yards
   
156.44   Vehicle parking space
   
156.45   Water supply and sewage disposal
Administration and Enforcement
   
156.60   Board of Appeals
   
156.61   Enforcement
   
156.62   Amendments
 
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 TITLE; SCOPE.
   (A)   Short title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
Zoning Ordinance of the village.
   (B)   Scope of regulations. Except as provided by this chapter and except
after obtaining written permission from the enforcing officer, it shall be
unlawful within the corporate limits of the village:
      (1)   To establish any use of a building, structure or land, either by
itself or in addition to another use;
      (2)   To expand, change or re-establish any nonconforming use;
      (3)   To erect a new building or structure or part thereof;
      (4)   To rebuild, structurally alter, add to or relocate any building or
structure or part thereof;
      (5)   To reduce the open space or plot area required for a building or
structure, or to include any part of such open space or plot area as that
required for an adjoining building or structure; and
      (6)   To provide or connect onto water supply or sewage disposal
facilities.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.02 INCIDENTAL USES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise prohibited or restricted, a permitted use also allows
uses, buildings and structures incidental thereto if located on the same site
or building plot. However, such incidental uses, buildings and structures shall
not be established or erected prior to the establishment or construction of the
principal use.
   (B)   A professional office or home occupation, as defined in §
156.06, may be conducted in connection with any residence.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.03 TEMPORARY USES.
   Permitted anywhere is a temporary yard for a contractor’s plant required for
highway construction, if not nearer than 800 feet to any residence other than
that of the lessor of the site.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.04 EXCEPTIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The following uses being exempted by the zoning statute are
permitted in any district:
         (a)   Poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals or any
other similar distributing equipment of a public utility; and
         (b)   Buildings, structures or land used for agriculture.
      (2)   For the purpose of the exemptions in this division (A), AGRICULTURE
shall mean the growing of crops in the open, the raising, boarding and breeding
of animals for hire, sale, training or racing and such stock, animal and
poultry raising as are incidental to the acreage farmed, and shall include the
selling by the producer of products raised on the premises provided contiguous
space for the parking of customers’ vehicles is furnished off the public right-
of-way.
      (3)   A residence and its water supply and sewage disposal facilities in
connection with an agricultural use shall not be exempt, nor shall the feeding
or disposal of community or collected garbage be exempt, either as a principal
use or as incidental to another use.
   (B)   Other restrictions. This chapter shall not nullify the more
restrictive provisions of covenants, agreements, resolutions, other ordinances
or laws but shall prevail notwithstanding such provisions which are less
restrictive.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.05 APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Applications for permits, as required by §
156.01(B), shall be filed in written form with the enforcing officer, shall
state the legal description of the property as of public record and the name of
the owner and applicant, shall describe the uses to be established or expanded
and shall give such other information as may be required for the enforcement of
this chapter. Each copy of the application shall be accompanied by a
dimensioned drawing of the building plot showing the location of buildings and
structures, lot areas to be used, auto parking areas and water supply and
sewage disposal facilities.
   (B)   The enforcing officer shall issue a written permit or denial thereof
with reasons in writing, within 15 days from the date of the acceptance of the
application. In event the permit or denial thereof is not issued within 15
days, the applicant may appeal directly to the Zoning Board of Appeals which
shall order the issuance of the permit or denial thereof with reason in
writing.
   (C)   Except where an extension has been obtained in writing from the
enforcing officer, permits heretofore and hereafter issued shall expire within
90 days if a substantial beginning has not been made in the construction or
establishment of the use applied for and within one year if not completed.
Permit fees and other fees shall be as established by resolution of the Village
Board.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FAMILY. Excepting domestic employees, any number of persons related by blood
or marriage, or not to exceed five persons not so related, living together in a
room or rooms comprising a single housekeeping unit shall be considered a
FAMILY.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation for gain or support conducted entirely and
only by members of the family within a residential or incidental building and
provided that no article is sold or offered for sale except such as may be
produced in the household by members of the family.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. When conducted in a residential district a professional
office shall be incidental to the residential occupation, shall be conducted
entirely within a residential building and shall include only the offices of
doctors or practitioners, ministers, architects, landscape architects, lawyers,
authors, artists, musicians and other professional occupations occasionally
conducted within residences. Such professional use may be advertised by a sign,
shingle or brass plate not more than 12 inches square.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
or structure, including, among others, any change in the bearing walls,
columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything erected, the use of which requires more or less
permanent location on or in the ground, or attached to something having a
permanent location on or in the ground, including, but without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, advertising signs, billboards and poster panels.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
DISTRICTS
§ 156.20 VILLAGE DIVIDED INTO DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, all land lying within the limits of
the village is hereby divided into the following districts, listed in order
from the, highest class to the lowest class and designated as follows:
      (1)   R-1 (Residence, five acres);
      (2)   R-2 (Residence, three acres);
      (3)   R-3 (Residence, two acres);
      (4)   R-4 (Residence, 40,000 square feet);
      (5)   C (Golf courses and Clubs)
      (6)   M (Miscellaneous Special Use);
      (7)   B-1 (Business);
      (8)   B-2 (Business, Tavern and Amusement);
      (9)   I-1 (Industry, Light); and
      (10)   A special Airport Area overlying the above districts within which
airports and landing fields may be located as provided in §
156.28.
   (B)   The boundaries of such districts and of the special Airport Area are
hereby established as shown on the Zoning Plan consisting of one page, which
plan accompanies and is hereby made a part of this chapter. Any land whose
classification is not shown thereon and land hereafter annexed to the village
shall be classified as in the R-1 District until differently classified by
amendment.
   (C)   The Zoning Plan, as adopted, is a part of the official records in the
office of the Village Clerk. A copy of the plan is in the office of the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.21 R-1 DISTRICTS.
   In the R-1 Districts (Residence, five acres), the only uses which may
hereafter be established are:
   (A)   Single-family residences, each one on a building plot or tract not
less than 300 feet average width and five acres in area, excepting any smaller
lot or parcel of land of public record on the adoption date of this chapter;
   (B)   Churches;
   (C)   Public and community parks excluding commercial enterprises therein;
   (D)   Community water works;
   (E)   Public fire stations;
   (F)   Farms; and
   (G)   Schools, public or private.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.22 R-2 DISTRICTS.
   In the R-2 Districts (Residence, three acres), the only uses which may
hereafter be established are those permitted in the R-1 Districts and in
addition the following:
   (A)   Single-family residences each one on a building plot or lot not less
than 250 feet average width and three acres in area, excepting any smaller lot
or parcel of land of public record on the adoption date of this chapter;
   (B)   Colleges, not including private music, dancing, business and
vocational schools and colleges;
   (C)   General hospitals for humans; and
   (D)   Schools conducted not-for-profit, but not including private, music,
dancing, business and vocational schools.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.23 R-3 DISTRICTS.
   In the R-3 Districts (Residence, two acres), the only uses which may
hereafter be established are those permitted in the R-2 Districts and in
addition the following: single-family residences, each one on a building plot
or lot not less than 250 feet average width and two acres in area, excepting
any smaller lot or parcel of land of public record on the adoption date of this
chapter.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.24 R-4 DISTRICTS.
   In the R-4 Districts (Residence, 40,000 square feet), the only uses which
may hereafter be established are those permitted in R-3 Districts.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.25 C DISTRICTS.
   In the C Districts (Golf Courses and Clubs), the only uses which may
hereafter be established are those permitted in R-1 Districts and in addition
the following:
   (A)   Golf courses; and
   (B)   Clubs incorporated and operated not-for-profit.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.26 M DISTRICTS.
   In the M Districts (Miscellaneous Special Use), the only uses which may
hereafter be established are those permitted in the R-3 Districts and in
addition the following:
   (A)   Specialized poultry, pigeon, rabbit and other animal farms, but not
including the feeding or disposal of community or collected garbage;
   (B)   Apiaries;
   (C)   Mushroom barns;
   (D)   Green houses;
   (E)   Nurseries;
   (F)   Dog kennels;
   (G)   Removal of black dirt or top soil, stone, gravel and clay (sites of
fixed plants for processing such materials shall be classified in the I-
1 Districts;
   (H)   Sale of products from any of the above uses;
   (I)   Storage of farm products;
   (J)   Riding stables;
   (K)   Veterinary establishments;
   (L)   Filling of holes, pits, quarries or lowland with non-odorous and
noncombustible material free from garbage and food wastes;
   (M)   Skeet or trap shooting if not nearer than 800 feet to any residence
other than the lessor or owner of the site;
   (N)   Institutions;
   (O)   Cemeteries; and
   (P)   Helicopter landing ports or fields.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.27 B-1 DISTRICTS.
   In the B-1 Districts (Business), the only uses which may hereafter be
established are those permitted in the R-3 Districts without reference to the
plot size requirements of §
156.26 and, in addition, the following:
   (A)   Residential apartments and duplex or group houses at the rate of not
more than one living unit for each 2,500 square feet of lot or building plot;
   (B)   Hotels and motels at the rate of not more than one hotel room for each
500 square feet of lot or building plot;
   (C)   Bus stations;
   (D)   Retail business and service establishments, excluding those listed in
lower class districts;
   (E)   Animal hospitals;
   (F)   Greenhouses;
   (G)   Nurseries;
   (H)   Restaurants;
   (I)   Professional and business offices;
   (J)   Advertising signs, but excluding billboards and poster panels;
   (K)   Private music, dancing, business and vocational schools or colleges;
   (L)   Lodge halls;
   (M)   Commercial swimming pools; and
   (N)   Theaters.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.28 I-1 DISTRICTS.
   In the I-1 Districts (Industry, Light), the only uses which may hereafter be
established are those permitted in the M and B-1 Districts and in addition the
following:
   (A)   Building material and fuel yards;
   (B)   Truck or bus storage yards or terminals;
   (C)   Railroad yards;
   (D)   Distribution yards for gasoline and fuel oil by tank trucks;
   (E)   Municipal sewage disposal plants;
   (F)   Incinerators for municipal garbage; and
   (G)   Other light industrial and manufacturing uses, but expressly
prohibiting those uses which are especially detrimental to property or to the
health and safety of persons beyond the district, by reason of the emission of
odor, dust, gas, fumes, smoke, noise, vibration or waste material and, in
addition, expressly prohibiting the following:
      (1)   Iron and steel mills;
      (2)   Cement mills;
      (3)   Asbestos manufacturing;
      (4)   Locomotive plants;
      (5)   Fixed plants for processing stone, gravel or clay;
      (6)   Auto dismantling and storage of junk or non-operable motor
vehicles;
      (7)   Other heavy industrial uses and manufacturing; and
      (8)   Uses which highly pollute the air with ill-smelling or noxious
wastes, including, among others, glue factories, tanneries, oil refineries,
garbage dumps and combustible refuse dumps.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
USES AND STANDARDS
§ 156.40 AIRPORTS AND LANDING FIELDS.
   (A)   Generally. Any airport or airplane landing fields, including flying
schools, hereafter established shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   The area of the site shall be at least 160 acres, be located within
the special Airport Area designated on the Zoning Plan and be at least three
miles away from the nearest boundary of all existing airports or landing
fields, or those hereafter established, which meet the requirements of this
section.
      (2)   Landing strips, runways or all-way landing areas shall be dustless
and shall have not less than 1,800 feet of effective length for landing or
take-off. In no event shall any part of a runway or landing area which is
within 200 feet of the property line be deemed a part of the effective length
thereof.
      (3)   Automobile parking space for and readily available to spectators,
patrons and employees shall be provided on the premises and off the highway
right-of-way.
   (B)   Building heights near airports and landing fields. Within 5,000 feet
of the boundaries of an airport or airplane landing field hereafter
established, which meets the requirements of §
156.28, the height of any building, structure or part thereof hereafter erected
shall not be greater than 20 feet, plus five feet for each 100 feet of distance
from the nearest boundary of such airport or landing field.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.41 NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Any use, building or structure lawfully existing or under construction
on the adoption date of this chapter or of a later amendment thereto, which
does not conform to the provisions herein, shall be known as nonconforming.
Such nonconforming use, building or structure may be continued, maintained or
changed to a conforming use, but a nonconforming use shall not be:
      (1)   Changed to a use of a lower class;
      (2)   Expanded;
      (3)   Re-established if discontinued or changed to a conforming use for
one year or more; or
      (4)   Continued if the building or structure is destroyed or damaged to
the extent of 50% or more of its value.
   (B)   A building or structure for a nonconforming use under construction on
the adoption date of this chapter or of a later amendment thereto creating the
nonconformity shall be completed within one year. A complete record of the
location value, nature and extent of all nonconforming uses shall be made and
kept by the enforcing officer.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.42 MINIMUM SETBACK FROM THE FRONT ROAD OR STREET.
   (A)   Every part of a building or structure hereafter created or relocated
shall be located or set back from the established centerline of every federal
aid, state bond issue, state aid and section line road or street at least 80
feet; from the established centerline of every half section line road or street
at least 70 feet, and from the established centerline of every other road or
street fronting a lot or building plot, at least 63 feet; provided, that where
special setbacks are noted on the Zoning Plan, such special setbacks shall be
observed.
   (B)   The following are exceptions to the provisions of division (A) above:
      (1)   Where more than 30% of the frontage on one side of a duly recorded
subdivision block is occupied by residences, the average setback of such
existing residences shall be maintained by all new structures; provided, that
such required setback shall not be less than 50 feet nor greater than 100 feet
from the established centerline of the road or street;
      (2)   No part of a new or relocated residence need be set back from a
residence existing in the same block on the adoption date of this chapter more,
than one foot for each three feet of distance between such buildings or parts
thereof;
      (3)   Steps, open terraces and underground structures;
      (4)   Fences, hedges and shrubbery; provided, that such obstructions
located on land at road or street corners within the vision triangle provided
by the required building setback and side yard shall preserve a clear view
between points four feet above the crown of each intersecting roadway;
      (5)   Eaves, chimneys, bay windows and other ordinary building
projections may extend into the required setback area but not more than 18
inches; and
      (6)   Gasoline pumps and air and water services of retail service
stations; provided, that the centers thereof shall be at least 13 feet distant
from the street or road right-of-way line.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.43 MINIMUM SIDE YARDS.
   (A)   In the R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 Districts, any building or structure or
part thereof hereafter erected shall be provided with an open space or yard
along each line of the building plot which is a side line of either the plot
used or plot adjoining as follows:
      (1)   In R-1 Districts, 50 feet;
      (2)   In R-2 Districts, 35 feet;
      (3)   In R-3 Districts, 35 feet; and
      (4)   In R-4 Districts, 25 feet.
   (B)   In addition, any residence erected or relocated in all other districts
shall be provided with an open space or yard at least 20 feet wide along each
line of the building plot which is a side line of either the plot used or plot
adjoining.
   (C)   Exceptions are as follows:
      (1)   On a lot or parcel of land of public record on the adoption date of
this chapter as less than 100 feet wide, each of such yards need not be wider
than 10% of the width of the lot or parcel;
      (2)   Incidental or accessory buildings located more than 50 feet back of
required road or street setback lines need not provide any such yards;
      (3)   Steps, open terraces and underground structures;
      (4)   Eaves, chimneys, bay windows and other ordinary building
projections may extend into the required yards but not more than 18 inches; and
      (5)   Fences, hedges and shrubbery, provided that such obstructions
located on land at road or street corners within the vision triangle provided
by the required building setback and side yard shall preserve a clear view
between points four feet above the crown of each intersecting roadway.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.44 VEHICLE PARKING SPACE.
   Motor vehicle parking spaces shall be provided off the street of highway
rights-of-way for each housekeeping unit in residential uses hereafter
established; and, in the case of other uses hereafter established or expanded,
for employees, for customers who usually park their motor vehicles, one hour or
longer, and for customers served in their motor vehicles, in such proportion as
to assure free and uninterrupted movement of traffic on the public street or
highway.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.45 WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   Every residence, business, trade or industry hereafter established and
requiring water supply and sewage disposal facilities shall provide such
facilities conforming to standards of design and location approved by the State
Department of Public Health, and any new water supply and sewage disposal
facilities hereafter provided for existing uses shall conform to such
standards.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.60 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Appointment; appeals. The President of the Village Board shall appoint
a Zoning Board of Appeals consisting of seven members, each of whom shall be a
resident of the village to serve respectively for the following terms: one for
one year; one for two years; one for three years; one for four years; one for
five years; one for six years; and one for seven years, the successor to each
member so appointed to serve for a term of five years. It shall be the duty of
the Zoning Board of Appeals to hear and decide any appeal from an order,
decision or interpretation of the enforcing officer, or any matter referred to
it or upon which it is required to pass under this chapter, as prescribed by
statute.
   (B)   Variations. Where, in a specified case, after written denial of a
permit by the enforcing officer, an application for a variation is made in
writing to the Zoning Board of Appeals explaining that because of certain
exceptional conditions peculiar to applicants property or its environment the
strict application of the regulations of this chapter would result in practical
difficulties and particular hardship upon the owner, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall consider the case at a public hearing, 15 days’ notice of which
shall have been given as prescribed by statute, and shall determine whether or
not the facts are such as to warrant a variation from the Comprehensive Zoning
Plan. If the Zoning Board of Appeals determines, by a concurring vote of not
less than four members, that the proposed variation or some modification of it
will not reduce the minimum areas or dimensions, nor increase the maximum
dimensions by more than 25%, impair an adequate supply of light and air to
adjacent property, increase the congestion in public streets unreasonably,
increase the hazard of fire, endanger the public safety, diminish or impair the
values of property within the surrounding area, or in any other respect impair
the public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare of the people, it shall
adopt a motion embodying such findings and shall direct the issuance of a
permit.
   (C)   Appeals to court. Within 30 days after the filing of any decision or
variation of the Zoning Board of Appeals in the office of said Zoning Board,
any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved by such decision of
variation, or any officer, department, board or bureau of the county, may
appeal to a court of record in the manner prescribed by statute.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.61 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the enforcing officer who
shall be appointed by the President of the Board of Trustees of the village and
be approved by the Village Board. Proper authorities of the village or any
person affected may institute any appropriate action or proceeding against a
violator as provided by statute.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.62 AMENDMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter and the districts and special Airport Area
created by the Zoning Plan may be amended by ordinance adopted by the Board of
Trustees of the village after a duly advertised public hearing, held by the
Zoning Board of Appeals, as prescribed by statute. The notice of hearing on an
amendment of the Zoning Plan, in addition to publication required by law in an
official newspaper (if any be so required) shall be posted on the road or
street frontage of property proposed to be reclassified, and in three prominent
places in the municipality, 15 days in advance of the hearing. Notice of all
hearings shall be sent to each civic or property owners’ organization
requesting notices of hearings on amendments.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation, or agents, employees or contractors of
such, who violate, disobey, omit, neglect or refuse to comply with or who
resist enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $200 or imprisonment for not more than six months,
or both, for each offense, and each day a violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 60-, passed 8-16-1960)
CHAPTER 157: COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
Section
   
157.01   Comprehensive Land Use Plan adopted by reference
   
Appendix A: Comprehensive Land Use Plan
§ 157.01 COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Village of Old Mill Creek Comprehensive Land Use Plan is hereby adopted
by reference as set forth in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991; Ord. 2011-0-1, passed 5-9-2011)
APPENDIX A: COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
Section
Article 1. Introduction
   
1   Plan introduction
Article 2. Area Context
   
2.1   Village setting
   
2.2   Area growth
   
2.3   Planning area
   
2.4   Transportation system
   
2.5   Utility system
   
2.6   Environmental system
Article 3. Planning Goals
   
3.1   Land use goals
   
3.2   Open space/land conservation goals
   
3.3   Environmental quality goals
   
3.4   Corporate development goals
   
3.5   Residential development goals
   
3.6   Retail development goals
   
3.7   Village Center development goals
   
3.8   Transportation goals
   
3.9   Community infrastructure goals
   
3.10   Community services and facilities goals
Article 4. Land Use Plan
   
4.1   Master Plan Vision
   
4.2   Land area/density calculations
   
4.3   Phasing and annexation
Article 5. Open Space/Conservation
   
5   Open space/conservation
Article 6. Corporate Development
   
6   Corporate development
Article 7. Residential Development
   
7.1   Low density
   
7.2   Medium density
   
7.3   High density
   
7.4   Residential area design
   
7.5   Residential density summary
Article 8. Retail Development
   
8   Retail development
Article 9. Village Center
   
9   Village Center
Article 10. Transportation
   
10   Transportation
Article 11. North Route 173 Conceptual Land Use Plan
   
11   North Route 183 Conceptual Land Use Plan
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTION
§ 1 PLAN INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   This document represents the Comprehensive Land Use Plan of the
village. The Plan provides the Village Board of Trustees, Plan Commission,
Zoning Board of Appeals, property owners and residents with a long-range guide
for the future growth of the village and its surrounding area.
   (B)   In response to the rapid and unplanned development of the region, the
village, along with Tempel Farms, the village’s largest property owner,
initiated the planning process that resulted in this plan. The mission of the
village and Tempel Farms has been to establish a positive, sensible direction
for both the conservation and development of the 8,000-acre village area over a
period of approximately 20 years.
   (C)   By carefully building its understanding of development issues and
capacity for planning, the village is taking a proactive rather than reactive
role toward guiding the area’s growth. The Plan Commission intends to use the
Land Use Plan to organize and review future development projects, conservation
programs and annexation proposals.
   (D)   Lohan Associates, a nationally recognized planning and architecture
firm, conducted the planning process. This process included studies by SDI,
civil engineers, Barton-Aschman, transportation engineers, planning resources,
environmental planners and Landauer Associates, real estate analysts.
   (E)   The Plan is based on this planning team’s comprehensive assessment of
the land use, transportation, utility, environmental and real estate market
issues affecting the village area. That assessment, which has been summarized
in a separate companion document, titled “Comprehensive Land Use Plan,
Technical Report,” providing detailed information about land use and
infrastructure conditions.
   (F)   The Land Use Plan is also based on numerous meetings held by the Plan
Commission during the past two years. During these meetings, area growth issues
were reviewed, land conservation and development goals formulated and
alternative land use scenarios assessed. The result of this process is the land
use direction recommended in this document.
   (G)   The next steps in the village’s planning process will include the
preparation of a set of companion documents to further define and eventually
implement the approved Land Use Plan. These documents include:
      (1)   A new Village Zoning Code with permitted and special uses, planned
development procedures and specific standards for:
         (a)   Building locations, setbacks and other bulk requirements;
         (b)   Architectural design;
         (c)   Roads and parking;
         (d)   Lighting, landscaping and signage;
         (e)   Open space;
         (f)   Land conservation;
         (g)   Stormwater management; and
         (h)   Traffic management.
      (2)   A utilities plan to more specifically address sewer and water
service for the recommended development areas; and
      (3)   A community facilities and services plan to address the location,
size and timing of municipal buildings, parks, schools and emergency services.
   (H)   The village will also continue to participate in the Route 45/Route
173 Corridors Task Force, organized in late 1990 by the Plan Commission along
with the County Planning Department. The purpose of the Task Force is to
encourage local municipalities and the county to work together in a spirit of
cooperation on development issues and planning opportunities within these
undeveloped road corridors.
   (I)   The village’s Land Use Plan is not considered an end product, but an
important first step in an ongoing process of rational, balanced and creative
decision making regarding the future of the village. The recommendations of the
plan will be reviewed on a regular basis and refined as the follow-up studies
and plan are completed and development patterns become established.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1120.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1122.jpg]
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991; Ord. 2011-0-1, passed 5-9-2011)
ARTICLE 2. AREA CONTEXT
§ 2.1 VILLAGE SETTING.
   (A)   The Village of Old Mill Creek is located in North Central Lake County.
The village is approximately bounded by the Tri-State Tollway (Interstate 94)
on the east, Crawford Road on the west and Sand Lake Road on the south. The
northern boundary of the village is approximately halfway between State Route
173/Rosecrans Road and Kelley Road. For reference, see the area location map.
   (B)   The village, with a population of 85, is a rural undeveloped community
of approximately 4,520 acres. It includes a number of houses and agricultural
buildings, large farm fields and a horse farm for the world famous Tempel
Lipizzan horse breed.
   (C)   The village area is one of the most beautiful settings in the state,
with winding water courses, rolling hills, broad fields and woodlands. Mill
Creek, which is a major drainage shed, is located on the west and south edges
of the village. These features, along with the horse farm, provide the village
with a distinct equestrian and country image.
   (D)   The area consists of several large contiguous land parcels which form
a vast undeveloped area. These large open properties represent an opportunity
to plan a coordinated, environmentally sensitive community on a large scale,
which preserves the beauty of its setting.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 2.2 AREA GROWTH.
   (A)   While the village and Tempel Farms have remained undeveloped,
properties immediately to the south along State Route 132/Grand Avenue are
experiencing large-scale construction. New development is moving westward from
Lake Michigan and northward from Chicago’s suburbs toward the village as the
east and south sides of the county rapidly grow. Much of the region’s growth
has been unplanned, resulting in an uncoordinated mix of land uses and negative
development impacts.
   (B)   The village is immediately surrounded by unincorporated Lake County.
The municipalities located nearby include Antioch to the northwest, Lindenhurst
to the west, Gurnee to the south and Wadsworth to the east. For reference, see
the area location map. Each of these communities has recently annexed land in
the direction of the village, keeping pace with the area’s growth patterns.
Each municipality has prepared or is preparing comprehensive plans.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 2.3 PLANNING AREA.
   (A)   The village’s Comprehensive Land Use Plan addresses the existing
village jurisdiction as well as the surrounding unincorporated and undeveloped
land. This overall area, which is approximately 8,000 acres and 13 square
miles, is bordered by the Tollway on the east, U.S. Route 45 on the west, Route
173 on the north and the edge of the developed land along Route 132 on the
south. One exception to these defined boundaries is the southeast parcel or the
Route 173/Tollway interchange, which is also included in the planning area. For
reference, see also Figure 1, Area Location Map and Figure 2, Planning Area/
Aerial Photo. The planning area includes Tempel Farms’ 6,300 acres, of which
4,520 acres are located in the village.
   (B)   This larger area was considered because it represents a zone of
development influence around the village as well as a rare opportunity to
comprehensively plan 8,000 contiguous and undeveloped acres. Within this area,
the Land Use Plan accommodates the future annexation of Tempel owned land and
the potential annexation of other adjacent unincorporated land into the
village.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991; Ord. 2003-0-3, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 2.4 TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Overall, the village has excellent access within the regional road
network serving the county via the Tollway. However, with the exception of the
Tollway and Route 132, the local road network does not have the capacity to
handle the potential development of the village, the surrounding undeveloped
land and the growth of nearby municipalities.
   (B)   As additional area development occurs, there will be a need to widen
and improve existing roads, including the signalization of key intersections.
Future development will also require improved access to the Tollway.
   (C)   The village currently does not have commuter rail service. As the
area’s population increases, there is potential for extending a commuter rail
line on the north/south Amtrak line, which exists immediately east of the
Tollway.
   (D)   The Village of Antioch is currently working with Metra to extend the
Milwaukee North commuter line from Libertyville and Grayslake through Lake
Villa to Antioch using an existing freight rail line. If a station was
developed in Lake Villa, it would be approximately eight miles from the center
of the village.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 2.5 UTILITY SYSTEM.
   (A)   Water supply.
      (1)   At this time, the capacity and water quality of the area’s shallow
groundwater wells will probably not be sufficient to serve the projected
development of the overall area. The continued use of shallow wells appears to
be feasible only on a limited basis for low intensity, small scale development
and/or for the early phase of the village’s growth. A new municipal system will
eventually be needed.
      (2)   There are several options available to the village for connections
to Lake Michigan water. They would involve the extension of large water mains
from existing municipal systems located south and east of the village. An
additional potential source of water is being constructed by a consortium of
communities located south of the village. The consortium, called the Central
Lake County Joint Action Water Agency, is bringing a new water main to the
central part of the county from the lakefront.
      (3)   A utilities plan will be prepared during Phase 2 of the village’s
planning process which will assess the following source options for
establishing a municipal water system:
         (a)   Deep wells;
         (b)   Zion municipal water system;
         (c)   Waukegan municipal water system;
         (d)   North Chicago municipal water system; and
         (e)   Central Lake County joint action water agency system.
   (B)   Sewer service.
      (1)   There is a lack of wastewater treatment plants and sewer lines in
the village area. The continued use of septic systems appears to be feasible
only on a limited basis for low intensity, small scale development and/or for
the early phases of the village’s growth. A new village sewer system will
eventually be needed.
      (2)   At this time, land applied wastewater treatment systems appear to
be cost-effective alternatives to the construction of new sewer plants. Such
systems have successfully been used for small as well as large-scale
residential and office development projects.
      (3)   The North Shore Sanitary District (NSSD) sewage treatment plant
located in Gurnee may have enough capacity to serve the southern edge of the
village planning area. With expansion, this plant may have potential to serve
more of the development planned for the village.
      (4)   A utilities plan will be prepared during Phase 2 of the village’s
planning process which will assess the following options for establishing a
village sewer system:
         (a)   Land applied treatment systems;
         (b)   A new village sewer plant; and
         (c)   Expansion of the NSSD service area boundaries and sewer plant in
Gurnee.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1991)
§ 2.6 ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Mill Creek traverses the area and serves an extensive drainage shed
for North Central Lake County. Point and non-point pollution throughout this
40,000-acre drainage shed has negatively affected the water quality of Mill
Creek. The overall creek system needs appropriate protection and eventually a
maintenance program to improve its condition.
   (B)   There are several locations within the village planning area which
have extensive floodplains and wetlands. For reference, see also the planning
area/aerial photo and the development constraints map. These environmentally
sensitive lands need appropriate protection and enhancement. There is potential
to create large conservation zones throughout the area, which could also
include wetlands mitigation projects and shared drainage systems.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
ARTICLE 3. PLANNING GOALS
§ 3 PLANNING GOALS.
   (A)   The planning goals listed below have been established to provide an
overall direction for the Land Use Plan and for the village’s future decisions
regarding conservation and development.
   (B)   The planning goals generally define what the Board of Trustees and
Plan Commission desire regarding the future character and quality of the
village.
   (C)   More specific policies will be generated as the village’s zoning code,
development standards, community facilities/services plan and utilities plan
are prepared.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 3.1 LAND USE GOALS.
   Land use goal are as follows:
   (A)   Establish the village as a planned country community with a mix of
land uses providing living, working, shopping, recreation and land conservation
opportunities;
   (B)   Provide for development that is appropriately scaled in height and
bulk to the rural setting of the village; and
   (C)   Expand the village’s boundaries to coordinate and control the
conservation and development of adjacent properties.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 3.2 OPEN SPACE/LAND CONSERVATION GOALS.
   Open space/land conservation goals are as follows:
   (A)   Preserve and enhance ecologically sensitive areas such as wetlands,
floodplains, woodlands, wildlife habitats and the Mill Creek corridor;
   (B)   Establish a large-scale land conservation network, possibly with
private easements, that is interconnected throughout the village. Such a
network should have limited access, focus on preservation and provide areas for
wetlands mitigation and other natural restoration projects;
   (C)   Provide open space for land conservation within each development area
which preserves ecologically sensitive land and which may connect with the
village-wide conservation network;
   (D)   Provide active open space for parks and community recreation within
each development area which is convenient, accessible and usable; and
   (E)   Foster a sense of land stewardship amongst existing and future
residents, property owners, business owners, developers and public officials.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 3.3 ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY GOALS.
   Environmental quality goals are as follows:
   (A)   Preserve and enhance the rural character, natural features and
landscape patterns of the village;
   (B)   Enhance and establish view corridors to preserve scenic vistas and to
define neighborhoods, land uses and the overall community;
   (C)   Minimize physical change to the existing topography and vegetation.
Natural features should delineate the specific location and pattern of
development;
   (D)   Control the quality of architecture and where possible, preserve the
village’s historic and rural buildings; and
   (E)   Control the location, type, amount and quality of signage. Preserve
and enhance the Millburn Historic District.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 3.4 CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT GOALS.
   Corporate development goals are as follows:
   (A)   Encourage development of a range of corporate office, research,
training, data processing and hotel/conference facilities to provide a balanced
tax base and local employment opportunities;
   (B)   Locate new corporate facilities close to Route 173 and to the Tollway,
with improved access to these roadways; and
   (C)   Encourage development of corporate facilities in high quality, campus-
like settings to encourage large-scale land conservation.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 3.5 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT GOALS.
   Residential development goals are as follows:
   (A)   Encourage development of a range of housing opportunities, including
single-family detached homes, single-family attached homes, condominiums,
apartments, senior care facilities, country estates and large farms;
   (B)   Encourage creative, pedestrian-oriented residential subdivisions which
cluster homes around parks, schools and community facilities and which
emphasize the historical and community tradition of small towns;
   (C)   Encourage residential subdivisions which have significant open space;
   (D)   Concentrate higher density residential development near arterial roads
and retail centers; and
   (E)   Limit the location, type, amount and quality of multi-family housing,
in keeping with the village’s small town character.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 3.6 RETAIL DEVELOPMENT GOALS.
   Retail development goals are as follows:
   (A)   Provide for new shopping opportunities in clustered locations adjacent
major arterial roads and around major intersections;
   (B)   Encourage pedestrian-oriented, mixed-use retail centers; and
   (C)   Discourage strip shopping centers and isolated free-standing stores
and service facilities along arterial roads.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 3.7 VILLAGE CENTER DEVELOPMENT GOALS.
   Village Center development goals are as follows:
   (A)   Establish a special location in the northeast corner of the village
for development of a pedestrian-oriented civic center as the symbolic “heart”
of the community; and
   (B)   Encourage a low density mix of land uses within the Village Center,
including community, municipal, cultural, retail, residential and medical
facilities.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 3.8 TRANSPORTATION GOALS.
   Transportation goals are as follows:
   (A)   Minimize the dominance of the automobile and the creation of new
roads;
   (B)   Establish a simple, coordinated arterial road system which
accommodates new growth, minimizes traffic congestion and emphasizes traffic
safety;
   (C)   Discourage outside or cut-through traffic within the center of the
village on east/west and north/south roads;
   (D)   Establish a simple, coordinated and linked collector street network
between each development area within the village;
   (E)   Establish a simple, easily understood collector and local street
network within each development area;
   (F)   Preserve, where appropriate, the historical and rural character of the
village’s existing road network;
   (G)   Support the continued development of the Waukegan Regional Airport;
and
   (H)   Encourage extension of commuter rail service to the village area on
the existing rail lines located east and west of the village.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 3.9 COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE GOALS.
   Community infrastructure goals are as follows:
   (A)   Anticipate the short-range and long-range infrastructure requirements
of the new growth planned for the village area;
   (B)   Establish a cost-effective sewage treatment system capable of handling
the wastewater needs projected for the village’s planned development;
   (C)   Establish a sewage system which is flexible enough to initially be
implemented on a small scale and expanded to meet the village’s growth needs.
User access to the system, whether it is a public or private system, should be
approved by the village;
   (D)   Establish a cost-effective municipal water system capable of handling
the water service needs projected for the village’s planned development;
   (E)   Establish a water system which is flexible enough to initially be
implemented on a small scale and expanded to meet the village’s growth needs;
   (F)   Establish coordinated networks of roads, sewers and water lines.
Eliminate overhead utility lines; and
   (G)   Encourage an ongoing village review process which coordinates all
infrastructure maintenance and development, including roads, sewers, water
lines, electric lines, gas lines and telecommunication lines.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 3.10 COMMUNITY SERVICES AND FACILITIES GOALS.
   (A)   Anticipate and facilitate the short-range and long-range community
services and facilities requirements of new growth, including schools, parks,
emergency services and municipal administration.
   (B)   Establish appropriate community and municipal services and facilities
through a long-range planning and funding program.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1124.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1126.jpg]
ARTICLE 4. LAND USE PLAN
§ 4.1 MASTER PLAN VISION.
   (A)   The Village Land Use Plan is a guide for the long-range conservation
and development of the village and immediate surrounding land. It represents a
vision for the future growth of the 8,000-acre village area as a “planned
community” with an estimated population of 12,700 to 16,600 people. Over time,
the plan, along with the detailed development standards which will be prepared
in the next phase of planning, will encourage the establishment of a community
with a quality and character that is innovative and special.
   (B)   Inspiration for this future community has been derived from Midwestern
farm communities, historic New England towns and European villages where there
is a strong community identity, a heart or center of town and a clear
juxtaposition between developed areas and the “countryside.” This direction,
which is currently being called “neotraditional” town planning, focuses on
creating more organized, recognizable and meaningful social and physical
environments.
   (C)   Inspiration also came from large American “new towns,” in that the
Land Use Plan organizes a mixed-use self-supporting community. As this
community develops over time, a variety of residential, recreation, shopping
and employment opportunities will become available, offering a large palette of
amenities and features for people and businesses who want more out of their
living and working environments.
   (D)   The village’s planning process and goals have also been influenced by
the many key aspects or “patterns” which exist in the landscape of the village.
These aspects include:
      (1)   Mill Creek and its natural ecosystem;
      (2)   Wetlands and floodplains;
      (3)   Extensive stands of mature trees;
      (4)   Agricultural fields, barns and clapboard structures;
      (5)   Green pastures with grazing horses and white wooden fences; and
      (6)   Rural roads and open scenic vistas.
   (E)   The 20-year vision for the village is that of an environmentally
sensitive, country community, with the following land uses:
      (1)   A unique interconnected open space, or “Village Greenway,” located
along Mill Creek and throughout the area, which will provide for large-scale
land conservation and definition for all land uses;
      (2)   A large, coordinated Corporate Campus, along Route 173 and the
Tollway;
      (3)   Several residential zones around the Greenway, along Route 45 and
within the center of the village;
      (4)   Special retail centers concentrated at major intersections along
Route 45;
      (5)   A mixed-use Village Center as its civic and functional heart;
      (6)   The large Tempel horse farm as its cultural and symbolic image;
      (7)   A Community Retail District located along Route 173 near the
Tollway; and
      (8)   A Business Park District located along the Tollway.
   (F)   This vision is outlined on a grand scale in Figure 4, which presents
the Comprehensive Plan as a land use, open space and road framework for the
area. Eventually, guidelines will be created to translate this macro-level plan
into more specific open space, building, landscaping and transportation
standards to ensure a consistent level of development quality within each land
use zone.
   (G)   With an overall plan, steady guidance by the village and cooperation
from property owners, the village can become a comprehensively planned
community that will be in sharp contrast to the typical, uncontrolled suburban
development surrounding it.
   (H)   It is rare when over 8,000 acres are planned at one time and their
long-range development controlled according to one overall vision. With
organized land uses, development controls, linked open spaces, defined edges
(Route 45, Route 173, Tollway) and defined entrances at each major road, the
community will be highly recognizable. Controlling the location and density of
development, along with conserving large open spaces and maintaining the visual
integrity of its scenic views and rural features, will allow the area’s
“country character” to be preserved and maintained.
   (I)   A more specific discussion of the unique features and components of
the Village Land Use Plan is presented in the remaining sections of this
document.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991; Ord. 2003-0-3, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 4.2 LAND AREA/DENSITY CALCULATIONS.
   (A)   A summary of the estimated land acreages and development densities
recommended in the Land Use Plan by each land use category is listed below for
reference. It is important to note that the land calculations, densities and
population projections presented here and in the discussion of each plan
component are general, macro-level estimates. They do not represent final or
precise calculations. Each estimate will be refined and adjusted as development
standards and sub-area plans are prepared and individual development projects
are proposed.
   (B)   It is important to note that two population figures are presented in
the summary. An estimate of 21,583 people was determined by calculating the
number of acres in the planned residential zones and then the recommended
development densities, i.e., one unit per acre, two units per acre and so
forth. This estimate represents the full potential build-out of the Land Use
Plan’s defined residential zones.
   (C)   Since real estate market conditions control the pace of new
development, a more probable estimate of the village’s future population was
calculated according to an analysis of trends in the county residential market.
It was generally estimated that in 20 years, approximately 12,700 to 16,600
people could eventually live within the expanded 8,000-acre village.
Estimated Land Area Summary1
Land Use Existing Unincorporated Remaining      Route 173 Study Total Future
         Village2 Tempel Land3   Planning Area4 Area            Village
Estimated Land Area Summary1
Land Use      Existing    Unincorporated Remaining      Route 173  Total Future
              Village2    Tempel Land3   Planning Area4 Study Area Village
Business Park - - -       - - -          - - -          52 acres   52 areas
Community     - - -       - - -          - - -          23 acres   23 areas
Retail
Corporate     584 acres   363 acres      534 acres      - - -      1,481 acres
Campus
Residential
Zones
   Low     2,964 acres 213 acres      234 acres      - - -      3,411 acres
density
   Medium  137 acres   703 acres      378 acres      - - -      1,218 acres
density
   High    - - -       55 acres       24 acres       - - -      79 acres
density
Special
Retail        - - -       13 acres       63 acres       - - -      76 acres
Centers
Village       24 acres    - - -          - - -          - - -      24 acres
Center
Village       916 acres   291 acres      584 acres      - - -      1,791 acres
Greenway
Total acreage 4,625 acres 1,638 acres    1,817 acres    75 acres   8,155 acres
(estimated)
1. Macro-level estimates of acreage from large-scale drawings.
2. Existing incorporated village.
3. Unincorporated Tempel owned land contiguous to the village.
4. The other unincorporated land within the overall planning area.
5. Total projected acreage when the village annexes the remaining planning area
west to Route 45 and north to Route 173. Does not include developed land which
currently exists on the north side of Route 132.
Density Calculation Summary1
Land Use Existing Unincorporated Remaining     Route 173 Study Total Future
         Village  Tempel Land    Planning Area Area            Village
Density Calculation Summary1
             Existing     Unincorporated Remaining  Route 173    Total Future
Land Use     Village      Tempel Land    Planning   Study Area   Village
                                         Area
Business     - - -        - - -          - - -      1,132,560    1,132,560
Park                                                s.f.         s.f.
Community    - - -        - - -          - - -      500,940 s.f. 500,940 s.f.
Retail
Corporate    4,580,000    2,850,000 s.f. 4,200,000  - - -        11,630,000
Campus       s.f.                        s.f.                    s.f.
Residential
Zones
   Low    1,670 d.u.   107 d.u.       117 d.u.   - - -        1,894 d.u.
density
   Medium 411 d.u.     1,944 d.u.     1,043 d.u. - - -        3,398 d.u.
density
   High   - - -        440 d.u.       192 d.u.   - - -        632 d.u.
density
Special
Retail       - - -        - - -          - - -      - - -        250,000 s.f.
Centers
Village      150,000 s.f. - - -          - - -      - - -        150,000 s.f.
Center
Village      1,374 d.u.   437 d.u.       876 d.u.   - - -        2,687 d.u.
Greenway
   Bonus
density
Total
residential  3,454 d.u.   2,927 d.u.     2,228 d.u. - - -        8,611 d.u.
density
Total
population   8,635        7,318          5,570      - - -        21,528
by density2
Population projected by real estate market analysis             12,700 to
                                                                 16,600
1. s.f. = square feet of building space and d.u. = dwelling units
2. Population projected using 2.5 people per household or dwelling unit.
 
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991; Ord. passed 5-3-1993; Ord. 2003-0-3, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 4.3 PHASING AND ANNEXATION.
   (A)   The Land Use Plan, which addresses an area larger than the existing
village jurisdiction, will be formally addressed in a series of steps or phases
within the context of the village’s boundaries and adjacent unincorporated
properties. Upon adoption of the Land Use Plan and a Zoning Code, the village
will consider annexation agreements involving adjacent Tempel land and the
other unincorporated land within the planning area. For reference, Figure 5,
Land Use Plan: Phasing/Annexation highlights the plan within the village’s
boundaries, adjacent Tempel land and the other unincorporated land.
   (B)   As annexation occurs, the village will expand its municipal boundaries
to Route 173 on the north and Route 45 on the west. These roads provide
appropriate edges and borders for the village, which will allow it to control
the quantity and quality of development to the north and west and to eventually
provide efficient municipal services.
   (C)   With “square” and even boundaries, the village can minimize the land
use, infrastructure and municipal services problems that plague most of the
municipalities in the region which have fragmented, uneven borders. Eventually,
the village will consider the potential for expanding further north of Route
173 and east of Route 45 to the Wisconsin border.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1128.jpg]
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
ARTICLE 5. OPEN SPACE/CONSERVATION
§ 5 OPEN SPACE/CONSERVATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMERALD NECKLACE. A term used years ago to describe continuous open
spaces or greenbelts that were designed to ring large cities and towns. The
Village Land Use Plan delineates a similar emerald necklace which follows Mill
Creek, continues east and north through the village and connects to the large
wetlands in its northeast corner.
   (B)   This interconnected open space forms a large greenbelt around and
through the center of the village, creating a continuous “Village Greenway”
approximately ten miles long.
   (C)   The Greenway serves several significant purposes, including:
      (1)   Preserving Mill Creek, ponds, wetlands and floodplains which have
the highest environmental sensitivity;
      (2)   Providing an open green buffer between the other land uses
recommended in the plan and defining sub-areas or zones for development;
      (3)   Preserving large areas which are regulated by public agencies;
      (4)   Providing large areas for potential shared wetlands mitigation from
wetlands outside the Greenway; shared drainage systems; and prairie, savannah
and woodland restoration projects;
      (5)   Preserving wildlife habitats, especially for species needing a
larger range of movement and food source;
      (6)   Preserving visually attractive areas or scenic corridors which are
not considered environmentally constrained;
      (7)   Creating a network of connected open spaces which in appropriate
locations may be used for limited hiking, bicycling and horseback riding; and
      (8)   Providing the village and future developers with an open space and
conservation image that is very unique and rarely found in most communities.
   (D)   The Village Greenway will be established over time through the use of
private easements. It will be kept in a natural state, with limited human
access and use.
   (E)   (1)   Active park and recreation space will be located only within
each residential zone and not within the Greenway.
      (2)   The only physical changes to the Greenway which will be considered
are mitigation, drainage and restoration projects and possibly small, simple
trails for hiking, bicycling and horseback riding.
   (F)   (1)   Eventually, as each recommended land use zone within the plan is
developed, smaller, environmentally sensitive areas, stormwater drainage
channels and scenic view corridor, can be preserved and possibly linked
directly to the Greenway.
      (2)   In this regard, the Greenway will function as the framework for an
even larger interconnected open space system.
      (3)   The village’s development standards will establish requirements for
open space and land conservation within each development area, including open
space connections to the Greenway.
   (G)   (1)   The overall size of the Village Greenway is projected to be
approximately 1,800 acres as generally delineated in the Land Use Plan.
      (2)   A more defined location, following Mill Creek and the approximate
centerline shown in the plan, will be determined when the village’s development
standards are prepared and specific site parcel plans are proposed by
developers.
   (H)   (1)   To facilitate creation of such a large and unique open space
system, the village intends to use a technique called the “transfer of
development rights.” With this approach, the Greenway will be designated for a
residential density of one and one-half units per acre.
      (2)   As an incentive to preserve the Greenway land, owners of property
in this specially designated open space will be able to use these units as a
bonus for new development on any other parts of their property zoned for
residential uses. Such development cannot be greater than an average of one
unit per acre over the approved density for each residential zone. For example,
density of an area zoned for two units per acre can only be increased with
bonus units to three units per acre.
   (I)   In the future, when development occurs and land is transferred to the
Greenway system, the village intends to organize a comprehensive approach for
land management and maintenance. Such an approach will involve a conservation
plan and an appropriate entity for administration.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1130.jpg]
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
ARTICLE 6. CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT
§ 6 CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Land Use Plan delineates an area on the north and east sides of
the village for a large, interconnected high quality corporate campus. This
campus is planned as one coordinated development zone for a variety of
corporate facilities and possibly large educational facilities. It has been
located along the Tollway and Route 173 which are major arterial roads.
   (B)   Internally, the entire campus is linked together by a new corporate
drive, which will be designed as a heavily landscaped country boulevard. This
new road will greatly improve area access for corporations, reduce traffic in
the center of the village and provide a common front door or main street for
each new corporate facility.
   (C)   Corporate facilities allowed in this zone are:
      (1)   Headquarters;
      (2)   General office and administration;
      (3)   Data processing;
      (4)   Training; and
      (5)   Research and laboratories.
   (D)   Support uses for corporate facilities allowed in this zone include:
      (1)   Hotels and conference centers;
      (2)   Commercial/retail/service facilities (within corporate, hotel or
conference buildings only, not freestanding);
      (3)   Educational facilities (technical, vocational, college,
university);
      (4)   Golf courses; and
      (5)   Limited production testing facilities.
   (E)   The overall corporate zone is approximately 1,400 acres, with a
planned potential density of 11,290,000 square feet. This density is
approximately one-half of the typical suburban office development and
represents a floor-area-ratio of 0.18 versus 0.33 for typical development.
   (F)   A floor-area-ratio is a ratio of building space to land area used to
calculate development density. This lower density along with a requirement for
underground and structured parking will provide more open space between
buildings and minimize impacts on environmentally sensitive wetlands, woodlands
and floodplains. It is consistent with a growing trend toward less dense, more
open corporate and research complexes.
   (G)   Each facility will be developed in a campus like setting with minimal
change to the natural setting of the village. Building heights will be limited
to a maximum of 45 feet, corresponding to the approximate height of the area’s
trees. This will allow for three- to four-story buildings, depending on site
topography. Entrance drives, landscaping, signage and drainage will be
controlled and coordinated throughout the entire corporate zone.
   (H)   Over time, the corporate campus could become one of the most desirable
locations for businesses due to the following:
      (1)   It will be part of a large planned community, with coordinated and
controlled development around it;
      (2)   The beautiful setting of the village;
      (3)   The village’s location halfway between Chicago and Milwaukee, with
access to two major airports;
      (4)   Its close proximity to the Waukegan Regional Airport, which has
corporate jet facilities;
      (5)   Its direct access to an interstate expressway and 4.3 miles of
Tollway frontage;
      (6)   Its close proximity to new residential communities with a variety
of housing opportunities;
      (7)   Its close proximity to the Village Greenway and potential
recreation opportunities such as golf courses;
      (8)   The potential for a new commuter rail station to be located nearby;
and
      (9)   The potential for a village bus service that links residential,
shopping and corporate areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1132.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1134.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1136.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1138.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1140.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1142.jpg]
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991; Ord. passed 1-11-1993; Ord. passed 5-3-1993)
ARTICLE 7. RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
§ 7 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   There are several residential zones located in the Land Use Plan. The
Plan delineates these zones for “low,” “medium” and “high” density development
as it is the intention of the village to encourage a wide range of housing
types. These zones will accommodate the following:
      (1)   Single-family residential, with a variety of lot sizes;
      (2)   Multi-family residential, limited in height and bulk; and
      (3)   Senior care facilities, near support amenities.
   (B)   Additional uses which will be allowed in the residential zones
include:
      (1)   Parks and recreation facilities;
      (2)   Educational facilities;
      (3)   Institutional campuses (technical, vocational, college,
university);
      (4)   Equestrian facilities; and
      (5)   Golf courses.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 7.1 LOW DENSITY.
   (A)   Low density residential communities are recommended for the center or
core of the village, inside the Greenway. This location is the furthest from
major arterial roads and provides the village with its rural character and
scenic vistas.
   (B)   In this location, “rural residential” development will be allowed
including large lot homes, small farms, estates, golf course subdivisions and
clustered homes with large open spaces. Such an approach is intended to
preserve the open character of the village’s center, including the rural roads.
   (C)   This low density core area is approximately 3,454 acres. With a long-
range allowable density of one-half unit per acre for 3,081 acres and one unit
per acre for 373 acres (in the village’s southeast corner), this area
represents a potential density of approximately 1,916 dwelling units.
   (D)   A special zoning designation will be created for the 2,634 acres in
the center of the village to further encourage the preservation of its open,
rural character. This zoning designation will establish a pool of dwelling
units for each property based on the allowable average density of one-half unit
per acre. Each owner of property within this central zone will be allowed to
allocate dwelling units to any location within the owner’s property, provided
that no parcel of land is developed with a density greater than one unit per
acre. This flexible zoning approach is intended to encourage the clustering of
homes to preserve large open spaces.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 7.2 MEDIUM DENSITY.
   (A)   Medium density development of two and three dwelling units per acre is
recommended on the outer edges of the Village Greenway, adjacent to Route 45, a
major arterial road. These zones will accommodate single-family homes and
townhouses, with a variety of lots sizes, possibly in cluster arrangements and/
or on golf courses.
   (B)   Overall, the medium density residential zones comprise approximately
1,218 acres. With a long-range projected density of two and three units per
acres, this zone represents a potential density of approximately 3,398 dwelling
units.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 7.3 HIGH DENSITY.
   (A)   The highest density residential zones are also located outside the
Greenway adjacent to Route 45 but are concentrated at main intersections. These
zones have a density of eight dwelling units per acre.
   (B)   These zones can accommodate small apartment buildings, townhouses,
homes on small lots and senior housing facilities. They are clustered close to
the intersections where the Land Use Plan concentrates retail activity so that
denser, more pedestrian-oriented mixed-use environments can be created.
   (C)   The retail centers will directly support increased densities, and
residents in these zones will have easy access to shopping and service
facilities. With direct links via internal collector streets, residents can
walk or drive to the retail centers without traveling onto Route 45.
   (D)   The area adjacent to the Millburn Historic District is recommended for
a density of three units per acre. It is recommended that a residential
community be clustered around the Historic District to help preserve it and to
give it vitality. Allowing increased density and clustering in that location
will provide another opportunity for a more pedestrian-oriented development.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 7.4 RESIDENTIAL AREA DESIGN.
   (A)   With an overall residential acreage of approximately 4,751 acres
delineated in the Land Use Plan, the village will have over a 20-year period,
numerous neighborhoods with various identities, sizes and designs.
   (B)   In the tradition of historic small towns and urban neighborhoods,
every new neighborhood in the village should be planned with a center or focal
point around which roads, streets and open spaces can be developed. Depending
on the population density of each neighborhood, these centers or focal points
could have the following features:
      (1)   Tot lots/playgrounds;
      (2)   Neighborhood and community level parks;
      (3)   Pre-schools and elementary schools;
      (4)   Daycare centers; and
      (5)   Small convenience stores.
   (C)   Small, fragmented residential development projects should be avoided.
Each project, whether it is one small estate or a large subdivision, should
consider the design of the whole residential zone it is located in regarding
open space systems, street/road layouts and community facilities.
   (D)   To avoid the confusing and often inefficient design of the typical
residential subdivision, development standards will be prepared which will
encourage the following design elements:
      (1)   More accessible and usable open spaces;
      (2)   Pedestrian-oriented, simple grid street layouts, where appropriate;
      (3)   Special, identifiable focal points and/or activity centers;
      (4)   Sensitive lot layouts, delineated by natural conditions;
      (5)   Clustering of homes to preserve land for conservation; and
      (6)   Special architectural themes.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
§ 7.5 RESIDENTIAL DENSITY SUMMARY.
   In summary, the Land Use Plan delineates the acreages and densities listed
below for overall residential development, including the Village Greenway
development bonus. Please note that two and one-half people per household was
used to estimate the 8,000-acre village area’s future population. Recent
population studies have indicated that households are getting smaller and that
by the year 2000, approximately two and one-half people will be the average.
Residential Development Calculations
Density Level Estimated Acreage1 Dwelling Units2 Projected Population3
Residential Development Calculations
Density Level            Estimated Acreage1 Dwelling Units2 Projected
                                                            Population3
Low density              3,454 acres        1,916 units     4,790
   Center/core
   0.5-1 units per acre
Medium density           1,218 acres        3,398 units     8,495
   Route 45
   2-3 units per acre
High density
   Routes 45/173, 45/179 acres           632 units       1,580
   8 units per acre
Village Greenway         1,791 acres        2,687 units     6,718
   Conservation bonus
   1.5 units per acre
Total residential        6,542 acres        8,633 units     21,583 people4
1. Macro-level estimates of acreage from large-scale drawings.
2. Dwelling units calculated as recommended density times acreage, i.e., 2
units per acre density times 150 acres equals 300 dwelling units.
3. Population projected using 2.5 people per household or dwelling unit,
i.e., 300 dwelling units times 2.5 people equals 750 people.
4. Represents potential population of the village with full annexation of
planning area according to the Land Use Plan’s delineated densities.
Note: Population as projected by real estate market analysis for the
planning area for the next 20 years is 12,700 to 16,600 people.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1144.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1146.jpg]
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
ARTICLE 8. RETAIL DEVELOPMENT
§ 8 RETAIL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   It is the intention of the village to control the location, intensity
and quality of new retail development in the village area. Shopping centers
have been proliferating throughout the region. They are usually uncoordinated
in regard to surrounding land uses and often poorly designed. Located along
almost every major road, they often dominate the image of a town or
neighborhood.
   (B)   Route 173 and Route 45 represent the entrances or “front doors” into
the village, as well as to the surrounding villages of Lindenhurst and Antioch
from the Tollway. It is important that retail development not be allowed to
spread uncontrolled along these corridors, which would create a negative
physical image for the municipalities as well as adversely affect pedestrian
and traffic movement.
   (C)   To avoid the chaotic signage, low quality architecture and inefficient
traffic circulation of strip commercial development, the village will
concentrate all retail activity (except for the Village Center) in three
locations. The Land Use Plan locates these “Special Retail Centers” at the
following locations:
      (1)   The intersection of Route 45 and Route 132;
      (2)   At the Millburn Historic District on Route 45; and
      (3)   The southeast corner of the Route 173 and Tollway interchange.
   (D)   The Route 45 locations were chosen because of their direct access to
major arterial roads and proximity to the higher density residential zones
recommended in the Land Use Plan. Strip shopping centers and free-standing
retail facilities will not be supported on internal local roads or on the
village side of Route 45 and Route 173, except at the planned intersection
locations.
   (E)   Limited retail establishments will be allowed in the Village Center
and in special circumstances directly within corporate buildings in the
Corporate Campus (not free-standing). Depending on the actual densities of each
residential zone, a limited number of convenience type stores may be allowed to
serve those residential neighborhoods farthest from the main intersections.
Such stores will only be allowed if they are clustered in the centers of
neighborhoods adjacent to other activity generators such as parks, schools and
community buildings.
   (F)   The two areas located in the Land Use Plan for concentrated retail
activity have been designated to serve the shopping needs of the area’s
residents and employees. They are called “Special Retail Centers” to indicate
the village’s intentions to encourage the following design elements:
      (1)   Minimal curb cuts and coordinated entrances and driveways;
      (2)   Small landscaped parking lots;
      (3)   Coordinated, high quality architecture, signage and landscaping;
      (4)   Clustered buildings with pedestrian-oriented streets; and
      (5)   Direct street and pedestrian connections to adjacent residential
neighborhoods.
   (G)   The following uses will be allowed within these Special Retail
Centers:
      (1)   Retail and service establishments;
      (2)   Support offices above shops or freestanding;
      (3)   Neighborhood and community level parks;
      (4)   Recreation facilities;
      (5)   Churches and synagogues;
      (6)   Apartments above shops;
      (7)   Apartments and townhouses (adjacent Millburn Historic District);
      (8)   Senior care facilities;
      (9)   Healthcare facilities;
      (10)   Educational facilities;
      (11)   Cultural/entertainment facilities; and
      (12)   Bed and breakfast inns.
   (H)   The center located at the intersection of Route 45 and Route 132 is
projected to be approximately 15 acres with approximately 50,000 to 100,000
square feet of retail space. This density will allow for a variety of
convenience level shopping and service needs oriented toward the drive-by
traffic on the arterial roads and toward the adjacent high density residential
zone.
   (I)   The Special Retail Center at the Millburn Historic District is
projected to be approximately 60 acres and is located on the east side of a
rerouted Route 45. This location is central to the large medium density
residential zones located along Route 45 in the Land Use Plan. It is
recommended that the Historic District be preserved by rerouting Route 45
around it with a bypass road, similar to other crossroads in small communities
around the country.
   (J)   The recommended density for retail development at Millburn is
approximately 150,000 square feet. This density will allow for a variety of
community level shopping and service needs, including a large grocery store and
drug store.
   (K)   New commercial and residential buildings should be sensitively in-
filled around the district’s existing historic structures to create more
activity and re-establish the surrounding neighborhood. The existing leg of
Route 45 which runs through the Historic District should be converted into a
low speed, pedestrian friendly, “main street” where new, small scale, retail
activity can be concentrated.
   (L)   Millburn Road should remain a local rural route and connect only to
old Route 45, and not directly to the new bypass, Route 45. Village residents
could access the new Route 45 at the ends of old Route 45. Larger stores should
be constructed on the north open end of the district. With careful planning and
design, the small town character of the Millburn Historic District can be
preserved and enhanced.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1148.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1150.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1152.jpg]
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991; Ord. 2003-0-3, passed 3-10-2003)
ARTICLE 9. VILLAGE CENTER
§ 9 VILLAGE CENTER.
   (A)   A Village Center is planned as the functional and civic “heart” of the
village. It is located in the Land Use Plan in the northeast corner of the
village, on Hunt Club Road between Route 173 and Kelley Road.
   (B)   This location was chosen because of its proximity to both corporate
and residential zones as well as its unique, attractive setting along the
Village Greenway. The Village Center will provide a more convenient, internal
destination within the village than the Route 45 retail centers for local
residents and corporate employees to shop, dine or visit municipal offices. Its
proximity to the new corporate drive, with the potential for a direct road
connection, will enhance the viability of the shops and restaurants which will
be encouraged to locate there. Should the village eventually extend north to
the state line, this will also be a central location for the larger municipal
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The Hunt Club Road location was also recommended because of the
natural setting of the village’s northeast corner. Located adjacent to the
Greenway and a large wetlands area, the Village Center is intended to be
specially designed as a historic “town center” or “town green.” It is
envisioned as a pedestrian-oriented place for civic and cultural functions
which also provides opportunities for shopping, dining and living.
   (D)   The Village Center, unlike the typical suburb with scattered shopping
and civic facilities, will concentrate and accommodate a diverse range of uses
promoting civic and commercial vitality and interaction. These uses could
include:
      (1)   Retail establishments:
         (a)   Convenience shopping; and
         (b)   Specialty shopping.
      (2)   Civic buildings:
         (a)   Municipal hall;
         (b)   Police station;
         (c)   Fire station;
         (d)   Library;
         (e)   Post Office;
         (f)   Community center; and
         (g)   Museums/cultural centers.
      (3)   Apartments above shops;
      (4)   Support offices, freestanding or above shops;
      (5)   Small health clinics;
      (6)   Churches and synagogues;
      (7)   A village green and playgrounds; and
      (8)   Bed and breakfast inns.
   (E)   The concentration and diversity of uses will be the key to an active,
vital center. Locating shops, restaurants, small offices, residences and
cultural/civic uses together within walking distance of each other, will create
a special synergy for the village and reduce vehicular trips on its roads. It
will be the place where public and special events can occur, such as holiday
celebrations and community meetings.
   (F)   The design of the Village Center should respect its rural setting and
emphasize it as a quaint, attractive gathering place, not dominated by the
automobile. The Village Center should be clustered around the long double row
of trees which exist just east of Hunt Club Road in the planned location. This
will allow it to have a formal village green as well as the natural open
setting of the Village Greenway.
   (G)   It is recommended that the Village Center be no larger than 150,000
square feet, including all civic and cultural buildings. A medium density
residential zone of approximately 121 acres has been located around it in the
Land Use Plan to allow a small, pedestrian scale neighborhood to be created
which is directly linked to the Center.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991)
ARTICLE 10. TRANSPORTATION
§ 10 TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   Road system.
      (1)   The Comprehensive Land Use Plan is primarily based on the grid-
shaped road system which exists in and around the village. To serve the full
potential build-out of the development density recommended in the Land Use
Plan, a road network has been organized which comprehensively addresses long-
range traffic improvements.
      (2)   At this time, these improvements have been considered at a large
scale to serve the village area as well as the general growth anticipated
immediately outside the planning area along the Route 45 and Route 173
corridors. The recommendations will be refined as the village’s development
standards are prepared and the Route 45/Route 173 Corridors Task Force
continues its studies of common land use and traffic issues.
      (3)   The Land Use Plan delineates several road improvements which
include: the new corporate drive; widening Route 173 and Route 45; a full
Tollway interchange at Route 173; and the realignment of Route 45 around the
Millburn Historic District. With these changes, the area’s overall road
capacity will be significantly improved.
      (4)   Locating higher density residential, commercial and corporate uses
on the perimeter, adjacent existing arterial roads, also facilitates phasing of
the improvements. This will reduce the need for large up-front expenditures for
new road improvements.
      (5)   Listed below are the general improvements recommended for each
road. It is recommended that the recognized historic roads, Hunt Club Road,
Crawford Road, Kelley Road and Millburn Road, be preserved where possible as
rural routes within the village. For reference, also see Article 4 which
highlights the recommended road improvements.
   (B)   Tri-State Tollway (Interstate 94).
      (1)   The existing six lanes of the Tollway have a large, unused capacity
and widening is not anticipated; and
      (2)   Upgrade the Route 173 interchange to a full interchange.
   (C)   Route 173 (Rosecrans Road). Eventually expand this two-lane road into
a six lane road as corporate facilities and overall regional growth patterns
become established. Such an improved roadway will also provide an alternative
to Route 132 for traffic traveling to the Tollway, from west of the village.
   (D)   State Route 132 (Grand Avenue). Continue to expand this road to six
lanes to handle the development that is rapidly occurring there as well as the
future growth of the overall area.
   (E)   U.S. Route 45.
      (1)   Expand this two-lane road to four lanes north of Grass Lake Road;
      (2)   Expand the two lanes to six lanes south of Grass Lake Road;
      (3)   Reroute the road as a bypass around the Millburn Historic District
and create a new signalized intersection with Grass Lake Road; and
      (4)   In the near future, improve signalization and turning movements and
control speed limits around the Grass Lake Road and Millburn Road intersections
to alleviate existing traffic safety problems.
   (F)   New corporate drive.
      (1)   Construct a new, phased four-lane road through the Corporate Campus
to efficiently route office traffic to the Tollway and to other arterial roads
and to serve as a “main street” for new corporate facilities; and
      (2)   The new road should connect directly to Wadsworth Road, Kelley
Road, Hunt Club Road, Crawford Road and Route 45.
   (G)   Wadsworth Road.
      (1)   Expand this existing two-lane road to four lanes east of the new
corporate drive when corporate facilities become established; and
      (2)   Continue as a two-lane road west of corporate drive with turning
lanes where appropriate.
   (H)   Hunt Club Road.
      (1)   Expand the existing two-lane road to four lanes north of the new
corporate drive when corporate facilities become established;
      (2)   Continue as a two-lane road south of the corporate drive with
turning lanes where appropriate; and
      (3)   Improve signage and intersections and lower speed limits to
discourage cut-through traffic.
   (I)   Crawford Road.
      (1)   Expand the existing two-lane road to four lanes north of the new
Corporate Drive when corporate facilities become established;
      (2)   Continue as a two-lane road south of the corporate drive with
turning lanes where appropriate; and
      (3)   Pave the road as new development occurs.
   (J)   Millburn/Kelley/Hutchins/Stearns School Roads.
      (1)   Continue as two lanes with turning lanes where appropriate; and
      (2)   Reopen the Kelley Road bridge over the Tollway when needed for new
development.
   (K)   Collector streets.
      (1)   Connect, where possible, each development area within the village
via a coordinated collector street network;
      (2)   The residential zones planned along Route 45 should be
interconnected with a common north/south collector street, to minimize the need
to use Route 45 for local trips within the village. Such a collector street
should link directly to the Millburn Historic District; and
      (3)   To further reduce the need to use Route 45 for local trips, the
residential zones north of the Historic District should also be connected via
an east/west collector street to Crawford Road near Kelley Road. Such a link
will also facilitate internal traffic movement, especially to the Village
Center and Corporate Campus.
   (L)   Village entrances. Create special, distinctive entrances with signs,
landscaping and/or architectural elements at the major entry points to the
village. These entry points include:
      (1)   East:
         (a)   Wadsworth Road at the Tollway; and
         (b)   Kelley Road at the Tollway.
      (2)   North:
         (a)   Hunt Club Road at Route 173; and
         (b)   Crawford Road at Route 173.
      (3)   West:
         (a)   New Corporate Drive at Route 45;
         (b)   Millburn Road at the Millburn Historic District; and
         (c)   Hutchins Road at Route 45.
      (4)   South:
         (a)   Hunt Club Road, north of Stearns School Road; and
         (b)   Hutchins Road, at Stearns School Road.
   (M)   Transit system.
      (1)   As the village and the surrounding communities develop, population
densities should be able to support new commuter rail service to the area. A
new commuter train station should be developed at either Route 132, Wadsworth
Road or Route 173 along the north-south Amtrak rail line. This improvement,
which would require an extension of Metra’s Milwaukee North line, would provide
a major transportation amenity for the area.
      (2)   As the 8,000-acre planning area develops, a village shuttle bus
system could possibly be established which circulates within the village. Such
a bus route could link together the Village Center, Corporate Campus,
residential zones, schools, parks, recreation facilities and a new train
station. This would enhance the village’s overall access and reduce dependence
on the automobile. The village’s development standards should encourage each
new project to provide transit stops for a future village-wide interconnected
bus route.
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991; Ord. passed 1-11-1993)
ARTICLE 11. NORTH ROUTE 173 CONCEPTUAL LAND USE PLAN
§ 11 NORTH ROUTE 183 CONCEPTUAL LAND USE PLAN.
   (A)   Land use strategy. The land use strategy for the Route 173 Corridor
Study of the amendment to the village’s Comprehensive Land Use Plan recognizes
that the properties in the subject area are not currently within the
incorporated boundaries of the village. While some of the properties may be
annexed into the village in the future, other properties may remain in the
unincorporated areas of the county or may be annexed into other adjacent
villages. This land use strategy anticipates that individual properties will be
subject to either annexation agreements with the village or other villages; or
require changes to current county zoning districts; or other approvals such as
special uses or variations before significant development will occur. These
agreements or changes to county designations can relate to the specific
characteristics of an individual property (such as its natural resources or
constraints, its access opportunity potential, its potential access to
utilities, and other site specific characteristics) and to the overall land use
concepts contained in this plan. Based on this land use strategy, it must be
recognized that the full development potential indicated within the range of
density and intensity of a land use designation on the general land use concept
plan may not be appropriate for an individual parcel after the more detailed
site specific factors are evaluated.
   (B)   Residential countryside. The residential countryside area is intended
to preserve the rural character of the area while accommodating a range of
residential opportunities, including individual farmhouses for residents and/or
rural employees upon large farm estates and clusters of single-family homes
with major open areas that may include a variety of lot sizes. The major open
areas may contain a variety of uses, such as active agricultural uses, natural
resource preservation areas or a combination of common and private open space
on larger lots. The average range of residential density for the entire area is
anticipated to be between two-tenths and three-tenths of a unit per acre. In
these areas, typical lots will range from two to five acres with additional
open space areas, which may include agricultural uses to preserve the rural
character of the area. In extremely unique circumstances caused by
environmental opportunities or constraints, two acre lots may be allowed with
provisions that the remainder of the land subdivided is retained in open space
and/or agricultural uses. To maintain the rural character of the area and
protect the area from adjacent roadways, development will be setback between
150 feet to 250 feet from the centerline of minor or major arterials consistent
with the scenic corridor provisions of the Village Development Code.
   (C)   Community retail.
      (1)   The community retail classification recognizes the significance of
the visibility and frontage along State Route 173 and its proximity to the Tri-
State Tollway interchange as a potential retail capture opportunity. This
retail capture opportunity could address a range of market areas including
local, community and possibly even the regional level. The potential for this
retail capture is not intended to accommodate typical retail development
patterns, such as strip commercial or big box retailers with huge parking lots
and fragmented uses. As indicated on the Conceptual Land Use Plan, the
Community Retail District is intended to incorporate major landscape areas,
pedestrian amenities and internal access connections. These features would not
only break up the larger parking areas, but they would also provide natural
resource protection for the various wetlands and woodlands along the State
Route 173 frontage.
      (2)   A further purpose of these open space areas is to provide a sense
of character for an overall multi-use area that can accommodate retail,
service, office and employment uses. With a mix of uses, it is envisioned that
pedestrian amenities will be incorporated into the overall design for this
area. Opportunities for office employees (and others) to walk along well-
landscaped trails or promenades to shop or pursue the services of the various
establishments in this area are anticipated. The trails and promenades should
also incorporate outdoor sitting and viewing areas as opportunities for users
to enjoy a more traditional market experience. These open space areas are
envisioned as representing 60% or more of the overall Community Retail
District.
      (3)   The Community Retail District is defined as land stretching from
the closest Route 173 right-of-way boundary to approximately 1,200 to 1,800
feet from the right-of-way, varying according to property lines, north and
south of Route 173. The percentage of open space amenities for any individual
site may vary as part of the annexation agreement process with a range of 30%
to over 60% being appropriate on a site specific basis. To accommodate the
potential mix of uses, the Community Retail classification anticipates a broad
range of floor area ratios (F.A.R.) that can only be realized with a variety of
one-, two- and three-story buildings. These F.A.R.s will range from 0.1 to 0.5.
To capture some of the regional level market potential without significantly
impacting the character of the area, a combination of single- and multiple-
story buildings may be appropriate with open space amenities being used to
integrate the overall development.
      (4)   To maintain the scenic nature of Route 173 while providing some
necessary vistas into retail areas, the development setbacks along Route 173
may vary and range from 50 feet to 100 feet from the nearest right-of-way
boundary line, with an area-wide overall average setback of 75 feet.
Considering a potential future right-of-way for Route 173 of approximately 120
feet to 150 feet, these setbacks will be in the range of 125 feet to 175 feet
from the centerline. Development setbacks will vary within the range and
setback areas will be landscaped to depict an attractive and visually
interesting streetwall along Route 173. Specific setbacks will be decided on a
site-specific basis within the range of setbacks as noted and will be subject
to review as part of the annexation agreement approval process. This unified
development opportunity will be challenging with the numerous individual
parcels in the area.
      (5)   To support unified development efforts, potential internal
circulation connections are depicted on the Conceptual Land Use Plan. In
addition, these internal connections would mitigate traffic congestion on the
major roadways. As noted in this section, specific annexation agreements will
be needed to address the specific opportunities of each site and of the overall
plan for the village.
   (D)   Business Park.
      (1)   A Business Park designation has been created to accommodate a wide
variety of business, light industrial and research uses within this area, which
take advantage of the village’s Tri-State Tollway and major arterial frontages.
The Business Park classification will permit product development, engineering,
sales, administration and research. Limited research and limited manufacturing
uses are allowed if functional or operational characteristics of a hazardous or
nuisance nature can be mitigated through design controls. Limited warehousing,
wholesaling and distribution activities may also be allowed if they can be
conducted in a manner consistent with the character of the designated area.
      (2)   It is the intention of the village to establish a Business Park
District in the Village Development Code characterized by superior site
planning, landscaping and architectural design. Development of business parks
in spacious, highly landscaped settings that are directly connected to the
village’s arterial roadway system will be encouraged.
      (3)   To implement this unified Business Park concept, a significant
percentage of areas for open space amenities are envisioned with an overall
district level of over 50%. The Business Park District is defined as land
stretching from the closest U.S. Route 41 right-of-way boundary to
approximately 1,500 feet from the right-of-way, varying according to property
lines, plus the Business Park development south of Route 173. Open space
percentages on individual parcels may vary and can be addressed in the site
specific annexation agreement review process. Minimum open space areas for
individual lots or parcels may be appropriate with a range from 30% to over 50%
based on site specific factors and the relationship to the overall concept
plan.
      (4)   Per recent discussions of village officials, refinements have been
made in the Business Park area. Circulation concepts were included, featuring
traffic calming devices limiting truck traffic in particular (e.g., traffic
circles).
   (E)   Open space/buffer areas. Open space/buffer areas will be incorporated
throughout the development area and all usage areas. Open space/buffer areas
are defined as public and/or private land intended for Village Greenway,
delineation and protection of differing uses, active and passive recreation
and/or environmental protection. These areas will provide connectivity
throughout the area with scenic. roads, waterways, trails and open space
corridors; encourage and augment economic development along Route 173 and the
Tri-State Tollway and the area’s agricultural uses; protect against
environmental degradation in area wetlands, floodplains, woodlands and drainage
corridors; and enhance the quality of life for current and new village
residents. Select buffer areas can be used for potential future roadway
expansion, areas for underground utilities and drainage or similar uses.
   (F)   Summary. The following table is a summary of the land use
characteristics for the study area.
Land Use Scenario Summary Table
Land Use Total Acreage Percent of Area Comments
Land Use Scenario Summary Table
Land Use                Total Acreage Percent of Area Comments
                                                      Total development could
                                                      be in the range of +/
                                                      - 4.0 million sq. ft. of
                                                      office/employment uses
                                                      with 30% to over 50% of a
                                                      site expected to be in
Business Park           +/-300        9.0%            open space and buffer
                                                      areas. Average intensity
                                                      is anticipated to range
                                                      from 0.1 to 0.5 F.A.R.
                                                      Overall open space in the
                                                      area is anticipated to
                                                      exceed 50%.
                                                      Total development could
                                                      be in the range of+/
                                                      - 800,000 sq. fl. of
                                                      retail/office space with
                                                      an average intensity of
Community retail        +/-250        7.5%            0.1 to 0.5 F.A.R. 30% to
                                                      over 60% of a site is
                                                      expected to be in open
                                                      space/buffer areas.
                                                      Overall open space* in
                                                      the area is anticipated
                                                      to exceed 60%.
Open space              +/-700        20.9%            
                                                      Areas of development may
                                                      range from 0.0 to 0.5
                                                      units/acre with an
                                                      average density of 0.25 -
                                                      0.30 units/acre.
Residential countryside +/-2,100      62.7%           500-600 dwelling units
                                                      are expected in the
                                                      planning area. Overall
                                                      open space* in the area
                                                      is anticipated to exceed
                                                      75%.
Total                   +/- 3,350     100.00%          
*Includes significant areas of both overall open space and internal open space
amenities.
 
(Ord. passed 11-11-1991; Ord. 2003-0-9, passed 10-13-2003)
CHAPTER 158: DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
   
158.01   Development Code adopted by reference
   
Appendix A: Development Code
§ 158.01 DEVELOPMENT CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Old Mill Creek Development Code is hereby adopted by reference as set
forth in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2004-0-6, passed 9-13-2004; Ord. 2005-0-6, passed
3-14-2005; Ord. 2005-0-18, passed 4-11-2005; Ord. 2005-0-8, passed 8-8-2005;
Ord. 2006-0-5, passed 6-12-2006; Ord. 2007-0-5, passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 2007-0-8,
passed 9-10-2007; Ord. 2008-0-3, passed 2-11-2008; Ord. 2008-0-10, passed 11-
17-2008; Ord. 2009-0-6, passed 8-10-2009; Ord. 2010-0-9, passed 10-11-2010;
Ord. 2010-0-10, passed 11-8-2010; Ord. 2011-0-2, passed 5-9-2011; Ord. 2011-0-
3, passed 5-9-2011; Ord. 2011-0-5, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 2012-0-4, passed 9-
10-2012; Ord. 2013-0-3, passed 9-9-2013; Ord. 2015-0-2, passed 6-1-2015; Ord.
2015-0-4, passed 11-2-2015; Ord. 2022-0-1, passed 3-14-2022)
APPENDIX A: DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
Article 1. Introduction
   
1-A   Title
   
1-B   Preamble
   
1-C   Intent
   
1-D   Interpretation
   
1-E   Severability
Article 2. General Provisions
   
2-A   Control over use
   
2-B   Control over bulk
   
2-C   Control over yards/open space/lot area
   
2-D   Control over specific uses
   
2-E   Floodplain development
   
2-F   Performance standards
   
2-G   Exempted uses
Article 3. Zoning Districts
Article 3.1. Zoning Districts and Map
   
3.1-A   Districts established
   
3.1-B   District sequence interpretation
   
3.1-C   Zoning map
Article 3.2. Village Greenway District
   
3.2-A   Preamble
   
3.2-B   Transfers between districts
   
3.2-C   Permitted uses
   
3.2-D   Special uses
   
3.2-E   Temporary uses
   
3.2-F   Accessory uses
   
3.2-G   Greenway access
Article 3.3. Corporate Campus District
   
3.3-A   Preamble
   
3.3-B   Permitted use
   
3.3-C   Special uses
   
3.3-D   Temporary uses
   
3.3-E   Accessory uses
   
3.3-F   Bulk regulations
   
3.3-G   District standards
   
.3-H   Performance standards
Article 3.4. Residential Districts
   
3.4-A   Preamble
   
3.4-B   RR Rural Residential District
   
3.4-C   R-1 Single-Family Residential District
   
3.4-D   R-2 Single-Family Residential District
   
3.4-E   R-3 Single-Family Residential District
   
3.4-F   R-8 General Residence District
   
3.4-G   Permitted uses
   
3.4-H   Special uses
   
3.4-I   Temporary uses
   
3.4-J   Accessory uses
   
3.4-K   Transfer of development rights
   
3.4-L   RC Residential Countryside District
Article 3.5. Special Retail District
   
3.5-A   Preamble
   
3.5-B   Permitted uses
   
3.5-C   Special uses
   
3.5-D   Temporary uses
   
3.5-E   Accessory uses
   
3.5-F   Bulk regulations
Article 3.5-1. Special Retail 3 District
   
3.5-1-A   Preamble
   
3.5-1-B   Permitted and special uses
   
3.5-1-C   Temporary uses
   
3.5-1-D   Accessory uses
   
3.5-1-F   Bulk regulations
Article 3.6. Village Center District
   
3.6-A   Preamble
   
3.6-B   Permitted uses
   
3.6-C   Special uses
   
3.6-D   Temporary uses
   
3.6-E   Accessory uses
   
3.6-F   Bulk regulations
Article 3.7. Business Park District
   
3.7-A   Preamble
   
3.7-B   Permitted uses
   
3.7-C   Special uses
   
3.7-D   Temporary uses
   
3.7-E   Accessory uses
   
3.7-F   Bulk regulations
   
3.7-G   District standards
   
3.7-H   Performance standards
Article 3.8. Community Retail District
   
3.8-A   Preamble
   
3.8-B   Permitted uses
   
3.8-C   Special uses
   
3.8-D   Temporary uses
   
3.8-E   Accessory uses
   
3.8-F   Bulk regulations
Article 4. Planned Developments
   
4-A   Preamble
   
4-B   General provisions
   
4-C   Procedure
   
4-D   Standards for all planned developments
   
4-E   Standards for all residential planned developments
   
4-F   “Cluster” residential planned developments
   
4-G   “Small town” residential planned developments
   
4-H   Mixed uses
   
4-I   Restrictions and conditions
   
4-J   Form of ordinance
Article 5. Nonconforming Uses
   
5-A   Preamble
   
5-B   Continuance of nonconforming structures/uses
   
5-C   Nonconforming lots of record
   
5-D   Change to a conforming uses or structure
   
5-E   Conversion to a special use
   
5-F   Elimination of nonconforming uses
Article 6. Temporary/Accessory Uses
   
6-A   Preamble
   
6-B   Temporary uses/structures
   
6-C   Accessory uses/structures
   
6-D   Construction standards
Article 7. Park/School Standards
   
7-A   Parks/recreation
   
7-B   School facilities
   
7-C   Park/school land dedication
   
7-D   Private common areas
Article 8. Environmental Standards
   
8-A   County Watershed Development Ordinance
   
8-B   Floodways and floodplains
   
8-C   Stormwater management
   
8-D   Wetlands
   
8-E   Riparian habitat
Article 9. Design Standards
   
9-A   Design intent
   
9-B   General district standards
   
9-C   Corporate Campus District standards
   
9-D   Residential districts
   
9-E   Special Retail Districts
   
9-F   Village Center District
   
9-G   Business Park Districts
   
9-H   Community Retail Districts
Article 10. Landscape Standards
   
10-A   Landscape design intent
   
10-B   General design standards
   
10-C   Design methodology
   
10-D   Recommended plant materials
   
10-E   Plant installation
   
10-F   Vegetation retention/protection
   
10-G   Standards modification
Article 11. Street/Sidewalk Standards
   
11-A   Street classification
   
11-B   Lot access
   
11-C   Street entrances
   
11-D   Street coordination
   
11-E   Street/topography relationship
   
11-F   Street and sidewalk requirements
   
11-G   Street layout
   
11-H   Street intersections
   
11-I   Design specifications
   
11-J   Construction requirements
   
11-K   Stormwater control
   
11-L   Private roads/streets
   
11-M   Handicapped requirements
   
11-N   Street names/house numbers
   
11-O   Bridges
   
11-P   Utilities
   
11-Q   Scenic corridor easements
   
11-R   Parking/loading areas
Article 12. Utility Standards
   
12-A   General requirements
   
12-B   Sanitary sewer system
   
12-C   Water supply system
   
12-D   Lighting system
   
12-E   Underground utilities
   
12-F   Utility coordination
   
12-G   Drawing requirements
   
12-H   Dumpsters
Article 13. Parking/Loading Standards
   
13-A   General requirements
   
13-B   Parking location
   
13-C   Dimensions
   
13-D   Off-street loading
   
13-E   Design/construction/maintenance
   
13-F   Parking and loading requirements
Article 14. Transportation Management
   
14-A   Definitions
   
14-B   Transportation management intent
   
14-C   Transportation management plan
   
14-D   Transportation Management Association
   
14-E   General standards
   
14-F   Evaluation/monitoring
Article 15. Sign Standards
   
15-A   Intent
   
15-B   Sign permits
   
15-C   Temporary signs
   
15-D   Exempted signs
   
15-E   Prohibited signs
   
15-F   Permitted signs
   
15-G   Freestanding signs
   
15-H   Sign area/number
   
15-I   Sign location/height
   
15-J   Sign illumination
   
15-K   Special Retail/Village Center Districts
   
15-L   Sign construction/maintenance
   
15-M   Nonconforming signs
   
15-N   Enforcement
Article 16. Project Approval Process
   
16-A   Introduction
   
16-B   Signs
   
16-C   Variations
   
16-D   Special uses
   
16-D.8   Personal wireless telecommunications facilities and services
   
16-E   Amendments
   
16-F   Planned developments
   
16-G   Non-planned developments
   
16-H   Offices
   
16-I   Repeated applications
   
16-J   Fees
   
16-K   Enforcement
Article 17. Project Submittal Requirements
   
17-A   Introduction
   
17-B   Signs
   
17-C   Variations
   
17-D   Special uses
   
17-E   Amendments
   
17-F   Planned developments
Article 18. Application/Impact Fees
   
18-A   Fee establishment
   
18-B   Application fees
   
18-C   Village development impact fees
   
18-D   County development impact fees
Article 19. Rules and Definitions
   
19-A   Interpretation of code
   
19-B   Rules
   
19-C   Definitions
Article 20. Effective Date and Publication
   
Appendix: Native Plant Communities Lists
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTION
§ 1-A TITLE.
   This appendix shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
“Village of Old Mill Creek Development Code.” For purposes herein, this
appendix shall be referred to as the “code.”
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 1-B PREAMBLE.
   (A)   This code is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in 65 ILCS to
attain the objectives set forth therein, to implement and foster the goals and
policies contained in the Village Comprehensive Land Use Plan (“Comprehensive
Plan”) to establish a rational pattern of development, and encourage the most
appropriate use of individual parcels of land throughout the village.
Furthermore, the village desires to encourage and enhance the preservation of
aesthetic amenities and natural features and encourage creative land
development techniques.
   (B)   The Village Zoning Ordinance is a component of and comprises Articles
1 through 6, 16 and 19 of the Village Development Code which is designed and
intended to include all regulations relative to the land development process.
Those portions of this code which comprise the Zoning Ordinance shall be
amended as required from time to time only in accordance with the requirements
of 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14.
   (C)   Due to the largely undeveloped nature of the land contained within the
village, the corporate authorities of the village recognize that application of
conventional zoning and subdivision techniques may, in some respects, be
inadequate and more creative approaches may be more appropriate. The
Comprehensive Plan generally describes the land use goals and objectives of the
village. Thus, the code, as an implementing tool of the Comprehensive Plan,
must be coordinated with the goals and objectives set forth therein. As a
result, the intention of the corporate authorities in the adoption of the code
is to provide flexibility within the various zoning districts in recognition of
the conceptual nature of the land planning goals contained in the Comprehensive
Plan and in furtherance of the health, safety and welfare of the community. By
providing this latitude, the village foresees that most development proposals
will require consideration as “planned developments.” To further the goal of
encouraging and stimulating high quality, innovative and environmentally
sensitive development, the village states its intention to provide a wide range
of permitted and special uses in the zoning districts hereby created.
   (D)   The zoning map is also designed to recognize the village’s unique
circumstances and opportunities by defining zoning districts that provide
flexibility to landowners within each district. For instance, the zoning map
delineates a Village Greenway District for open space conservation but
recognizes that the unique nature of this district may require boundary line
adjustments as development goes forward. The zoning map will be adjusted as
development properties are surveyed with metes and bounds plats.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 1-C INTENT.
   To achieve the village’s goals of high quality, coordinated land development
and conservation, this code sets forth regulations and standards to:
   (A)   Determine and regulate the intensity and location of land uses and
permanent open space;
   (B)   Classify, regulate and restrict the intensity of land use and location
of buildings, structures and land intended for business, residential, and other
specified uses and provide for special uses;
   (C)   Divide the village into zoning districts of such character, number,
shape and area as are best suited to effect the foregoing purposes;
   (D)   Protect such districts from encroachments by incompatible uses and
structures;
   (E)   Fix development standards within each district to which uses and
structures therein shall comply;
   (F)   Regulate and limit the height and bulk of structures hereafter
erected;
   (G)   Establish, regulate, and limit setback lines along all public ways and
property lines;
   (H)   Regulate additions to, and alterations or remodeling of, existing
structures so as to comply with the restrictions and limitations lawfully
imposed in this code;
   (I)   Define and limit the powers and duties of the municipal officers and
bodies as provided in this code; and
   (J)   Describe penalties for the violation of the provisions of this code or
any amendment hereto.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 1-D INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Overlapping or conflicting laws. Where the conditions imposed by any
provisions of this code are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable standards imposed by other provisions of this code or by any other
law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any duly constituted public
agency having jurisdiction, the regulations which are more restrictive or which
impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
   (B)   Existing agreements. This code is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant, or other private agreement, provided that where the
regulations of this code are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements than such easement, covenant or other private agreement the
requirements of this code shall govern.
   (C)   Permit or license. Nothing contained in this code shall be deemed to
be a consent, license or permit to use any property or to locate, construct or
maintain any building, structure or facility or to carry on any trade,
industry, occupation or activity.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 1-E SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the corporate authorities that
the provisions of this code are severable in accordance with the following.
   (A)   Code application. If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge
any provision of this code to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any
other provision of this code not specifically included in such judgment.
   (B)   Property application. If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge invalid the application of any provision of this code to a particular
lot or parcel of real estate or structure or use, such judgment shall not
affect the application of the provision to any other lot or parcel of real
estate or structure or use not specifically included in the judgment.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
ARTICLE 2. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 2-A CONTROL OVER USE.
   (A)   Establishment of new uses. The use of a structure or lot established
after the effective date of this code shall be for a use which is herein
specified as a permitted, special, accessory or temporary use in the district
regulations applicable to the district in which such structure or lot is
located.
   (B)   Existing building permits. Where a building permit for a structure has
been issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date of this code and
where construction has commenced within six months of such effective date and
is completed within two years of such effective date, the structure may be
completed in accordance with the approved plans, and further, may upon
completion be occupied under a certificate of occupancy for the use originally
designated subject thereafter to the provisions of Article 5.
   (C)   Existing uses.
      (1)   Where the use of a structure or lot existing at the time of the
adoption of this code is rendered nonconforming under the provisions of this
code, the provisions of Article 5 shall apply to such use.
      (2)   Where a structure and the use thereof or use of a lot lawfully
exists on the effective date of this code, and is classified by this code as a
special use in the district in which it is located, such use shall be
considered a lawful special use. A special use permit issued in accordance with
procedures herein set forth shall be required for any expansion, new structure
or change of such existing legal structure or special use.
   (D)   Existing unlawful uses. Any unlawful use existing at the time of the
adoption of this code which is also in conflict with the requirements of this
code shall remain unlawful hereunder.
   (E)   Uses on zoning lot. Not more than one principal use shall be permitted
on a zoning lot unless otherwise provided for in this code.
   (F)   Buildings on zoning lot. Not more than one principal detached building
shall be located on any zoning lot, except in the case of planned developments.
   (G)   Open use. Where a lot is to be utilized for a permitted use without
structures, the required yards for such lot shall be provided and maintained as
set forth in this code.
   (H)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   When a use is not specifically listed as a permitted, special,
temporary or accessory use, such use is hereby expressly prohibited.
      (2)   Wind farms, as defined in division (H)(3) below, are not permitted
in the jurisdictional limits of the village and within a one and one-half mile
radius surrounding its zoning jurisdiction.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (H), the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         WIND FARM. Two or more electric-generating wind devices or a wind
energy production, conversion and distribution system consisting of wind
turbines, towers and associated electronic equipment, operated by a common
owner or operator, for aggregating their collective energy supply, in whole or
in part for resale purposes, and which share a common connection to electric
transmission facilities. A WIND FARM shall not include a single wind tower or
building mounted electric-generated wind device that is an accessory use to a
principal use and that meets the height standards of Article 2.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 2010-0-9,
passed 10-11-2010)
§ 2-B CONTROL OVER BULK.
   (A)   Development density. When calculating floor area ratio or the number
of allowable residential dwelling units for a site for all purposes of this
code, the total gross land area of the site shall be used.
   (B)   New buildings/structures. Each new building or structure shall conform
with the bulk regulations established herein for the district in which such
building or structure is located.
   (C)   Existing buildings/structures. No existing building or structure shall
be enlarged, reconstructed, structurally altered, converted or relocated in
such a manner as to conflict or further conflict with the bulk regulations of
this code for the district in which such building or structure is located.
   (D)   Building height. No building or structure shall be erected, converted,
enlarged, reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed the maximum building
height of the zoning district in which it is located except for the following
structures which shall be reviewed by the Plan Commission and approved by the
corporate authorities pursuant to the procedures provided for in Article 16
prior to construction.
      (1)   Building appurtenance and accessory structures.
         (a)   Group A. Chimneys may exceed the maximum building height by not
more than 15 feet.
         (b)   Group B. Cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, energy collecting
devices, flagpoles, mechanical appurtenances, parapet walls, radio and
television receiving antennas, recreational facilities, roof gardens and
skylights may exceed the maximum building height by not more than 12 feet and
are screened as required in Article 9.
      (2)   Planned developments. Buildings in planned developments may not
exceed the maximum building height established for the district in which the
structure is located except as provided for in Article 4.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 2-C CONTROL OVER YARDS/OPEN SPACE/LOT AREA.
   (A)   Conformity with yard regulations. The maintenance of yards, other open
spaces and minimum lot area legally required for a building within a zoning
district shall be a continuing obligation upon the owner of such building or
property. Furthermore, no legally required yard, other open space or minimum
lot area allocated to any building shall by virtue of change of ownership or
for any other reason be used to satisfy yard, other open space or minimum lot
area requirements for any other building.
   (B)   Division of zoning lot. No zoning lot shall be hereafter divided into
two or more zoning lots unless all zoning lots resulting from such division
shall conform with all the applicable bulk regulations of the zoning district
in which the property is located. If a lot is built upon under one building
permit, then divided, it can only be so divided if each newly created lot, or
portion of the original lot, is platted as a lot of record and conforms to the
provisions of this code. No zoning lot within a residential district shall be
hereinafter divided so as to create a lot-in-depth as that term is defined in
Article 19.
   (C)   Location of yards/open space. All yards and other open spaces
allocated to a structure or use shall be located on the same zoning lot as such
structure or use, except as otherwise provided herein.
   (D)   Yards in particular cases.
      (1)   Established setbacks. Where lots comprising 40% or more of the
frontage on a block are developed with buildings having front yards of greater
depth than required herein, new buildings shall not be erected closer to the
street than the average front yard so established by the existing buildings.
      (2)   Corner lots. On corner lots, the front yard shall face the narrow
street dimension of the lot.
      (3)   Through lots.
         (a)   On through lots the front lot line shall be determined by the
Planning Director. However, when a front lot line has been established on one
or more lots in the same block and all have front lot lines established along
the same street right-of-way line, that right-of-way line shall be the front
lot line on all remaining through lots in that block.
         (b)   On through lots, all front yard requirements shall apply to the
required rear yard unless such rear yard is properly screened as required in
Article 10.
      (4)   Setbacks along roads/streets.
         (a)   Existing structures. Minimum setbacks for existing structures on
lots abutting a street or thoroughfare shall be the distance required for a
front yard, or corner side yard, in the district in which such lots are
located, measured from the existing right-of-way line of the street or
thoroughfare.
         (b)   New structures. Minimum setbacks for new structures on lots
abutting a street or thoroughfare shall be the distance required for a front
yard, or corner side yard, in the districts in which such lots are located,
measured from the existing right-of-way line as designated on the zoning map of
the village, or as duly established by other recorded or established setbacks
of the village, or as established by county or state highway authorities,
whichever has the greatest right-of-way width requirements.
   (E)   Permitted obstructions.
      (1)   All yards:
         (a)   Awnings and canopies, projecting four feet or less into the
yard;
         (b)   Steps or ramps four feet or less above grade, which are
necessary for access to a permitted building or for access to a zoning lot from
a street;
         (c)   Chimneys, projecting 18 inches or less into the yard;
         (d)   Arbors and trellises;
         (e)   Flagpoles;
         (f)   Window unit air conditioners, projecting not more than 18 inches
into the yard;
         (g)   Fences and walls, subject to applicable restrictions of Article
9;
         (h)   Signs, subject to the applicable restrictions of Article 15;
         (i)   Light standards subject to applicable restrictions of Article 9;
         (j)   Trees, shrubbery and other plantings; and
         (k)   Temporary uses and structures subject to Article 6.
      (2)   Front yards:
         (a)   One-story bay windows, projecting three feet or less into the
yard; and
         (b)   Overhanging eaves and gutters, projecting three feet or less
into the yard.
      (3)   Side yards: overhanging eaves and gutters, projecting 18 inches or
less into the yard.
      (4)   Rear yards:
         (a)   One-story bay windows, projecting three feet or less into the
yard;
         (b)   Overhanging eaves and gutters, projecting three feet or less
into the yard;
         (c)   Permitted accessory structures, subject to the applicable
restrictions of Article 6;
         (d)   Attached heating and cooling compressor units projecting not
more than four feet into the yard; and
         (e)   Swimming pools, raised decks and their accessory structures and
tennis courts may be located in required rear yards, but in no event shall they
be located closer than eight feet from any lot line.
      (5)   Control over specific obstructions: Swimming pools, raised decks
and their accessory structures, and tennis courts shall be located in relation
to side lot lines as provided for under the applicable district regulations,
but in no event shall they be located closer than eight feet from any lot line.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 2-D CONTROL OVER SPECIFIC USES.
   (A)   Home occupations.
      (1)   There are permitted in all residential districts, home occupations
which are businesses or occupations of the type which will be compatible with
the character of the residential districts and which will comply with the
following standards, as well as with all other regulations of the village.
         (a)   The home occupation shall be incidental and secondary to the use
of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and shall not occupy more than 25% of the
total floor area of all permitted structures and shall not employ on the
premises more than one non-family member employee.
         (b)   There shall be no signs, display or activity that will indicate
from the exterior that the building is being used, in part, for any purpose
other than that of a dwelling.
         (c)   The home occupation and all related activity, including storage,
shall be conducted completely within the dwelling unit or permitted accessory
structures.
         (d)   There shall be no commodities sold or services rendered that
require receipt or delivery of merchandise, goods or equipment by other than a
passenger motor vehicle or by parcel or letter carrier mail service.
         (e)   There shall be no special structural alterations or construction
features, to the dwelling or permitted accessory structures, nor the
installation of special equipment attached to walls, floors or ceilings.
         (f)   The home occupation and any related activity shall not create
any traffic hazards or nuisances in the public streets and all vehicle parking
generated by such operations shall be located on the property.
         (g)   There shall be no perceptible noise, odor, smoke, electrical
interference or vibration emanating from the structure in which the home
occupation is located.
      (2)   Garage sales and home sales shall not be considered home
occupations but shall be regulated as temporary uses in accordance with the
provisions of Article 6.
   (B)   Air rights. The development of air rights is not permitted.
   (C)   Boats/trailers/recreational vehicles. No boats, trailers or
recreational vehicles (including snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles) can be
parked in the open in any residential district and may only be parked or stored
in the open in nonresidential districts for no more than three hours.
   (D)   Tents. Except as otherwise provided under Article 6, tents shall not
be erected, used or maintained on a lot except such tents as are customarily
used for recreational purposes. Such recreational tents shall be located on the
same lot as a dwelling and shall not be allowed within the required front or
side yard. All uses of tents other than recreational shall be regulated as
temporary uses in accordance with Article 6.
   (E)   Refuse storage. The open storage of refuse, scrap, building debris or
agriculture equipment and machinery is prohibited in all zoning districts
except for recycling containers. All such material shall be kept in enclosed
containers while awaiting removal and stored as follows.
      (1)   Residential districts. All refuse containers shall be kept to the
rear or side of the principal structure or within a garage or accessory
structure, except at those times designated for removal. Dumpsters shall be
screened from view as required in Article 10.
      (2)   Nonresidential districts.
         (a)   All containers shall be stored in a neat and orderly fashion and
properly secured so as not to interfere with or be hazardous to pedestrian or
vehicular traffic. Dumpsters shall be screened from view as required in Article
10.
         (b)   All refuse containers shall be fully enclosed by a fence or
landscaped of a height sufficient to screen such containers from view from
adjoining properties and public or private rights-of-way.
   (F)   Building materials storage. The storage of building materials and
equipment shall be allowed only on a lot where a building permit has been
lawfully issued by the Planning Director. Such materials and equipment shall be
stored in a neat and orderly fashion and shall be removed as soon as they are
no longer required for the permitted construction.
   (G)   Disabled motor vehicles storage.
      (1)   Residential districts. Disabled or damaged motor vehicles may be
stored in the open within a required front yard in a residential district for a
period not to exceed 15 days. Major repairs shall not be made on such vehicles
except within a garage or accessory structure.
      (2)   Nonresidential districts. Disabled or damaged motor vehicles
awaiting or under repair may be stored in the open in a nonresidential district
only on a lot where such storage and repair is customary in the operation of a
lawfully established principal use. Such vehicles shall be removed or placed
within an enclosed structure within 15 days.
   (H)   Medical cannabis uses.
      (1)   All medical cannabis uses shall comply with the Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act (Public Act 098-0122), as amended from
time to time, and all rules and regulations adopted in accordance therewith as
amended from time to time.
      (2)   In addition to the setbacks required by division (H)(1) above, the
village’s zoning standards require that a registered medical cannabis
dispensary may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line of a
cemetery, place of worship for religious purposes, public or private park,
forest preserve or property in a residential zoning district, and a registered
medical cannabis cultivation center may not be located within 2,500 feet of the
property line of a cemetery, place of worship for religious purposes, public or
private park, forest preserve or property in a residential zoning district.
      (3)   The procedures for applying to the village for a medical cannabis
use will require a three-step process to include the application for a Zoning
Ordinance text amendment to propose that a medical cannabis use be a possible
special use within either the Village’
(Ord. 2015-0-2, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 2-E FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT.
   All new and existing uses and structures shall be subject to the provisions
of Article 8 as related to development in the floodplain.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 2-F PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any use in any district shall be subject to and adhere to the
performance standards which govern noise, smoke, particulate matter, toxic or
noxious matters, odors, fire and explosive hazards, vibration, glare or heat
which are contained in Article 3 and Article 9.
   (B)   No use already established on the effective date of this code shall be
altered or modified so as to conflict with such standards.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 2-G EXEMPTED USES.
   The following uses are exempted by this code and permitted in any district:
wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains, valves or any other
similar distribution equipment for telephone or other communications and
electric power, gas, water and sewer lines; provided, that the installation
shall conform with the rules and regulations of all authorities having
jurisdiction over the public utility involved and with this code.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1154.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 3. ZONING DISTRICTS
ARTICLE 3.1. ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 3.1-A DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this code and the
Comprehensive Plan, the village and certain surrounding areas contemplated for
future annexation are hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
   (A)   Village Greenway District (Article 3.2);
   (B)   Corporate Campus District (Article 3.3);
   (C)   Residential districts (Article 3.4):
      (1)   RR Rural Residential District;
      (2)   R-1 Single-Family Residential District;
      (3)   R-2 Single-Family Residential District;
      (4)   R-3 Single-Family Residential District;
      (5)   R-8 Single-Family Residential District; and
      (6)   RC Residential Countryside District.
   (D)   Special Retail District (Article 3.5);
   (E)   Village Center District (Article 3.6);
   (F)   Business Park District (Article 3.7); and
   (G)   Community Retail District (Article 3.8).
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.1-B DISTRICT SEQUENCE INTERPRETATION.
   The numerical sequence used to designate the zoning district classifications
shall not be interpreted and is not intended to imply a progressive cumulation
of uses based on intensity or to establish a zoning district hierarchy. Each
district shall be interpreted separately.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.1-C ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Zoning map. The zoning districts and their boundaries are as shown
upon a map entitled “Zoning Map of the Village of Old Mill Creek, Lake County,
Illinois,” herein referred to as the zoning map. The zoning map may include
proposed zoning district boundary lines for areas which are not currently
within the village limits. As such property is annexed, it shall be zoned as
contemplated on the zoning map. The zoning map and all future amendments
thereto and all notations, references and other information shown thereon are
hereby incorporated into and made a part of this code, with the same force and
effect as if fully set forth in this code.
   (B)   District boundaries interpretation. Where uncertainty exists with
respect to the boundaries of the various zoning districts as shown on the
zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   All zoning district boundary lines for property in the Village
Greenway District are approximate and have been estimated based on the general
boundaries of the Comprehensive Plan. More specific boundary lines will be
determined as development projects proceed.
      (2)   A zoning district boundary line following a railroad, highway,
alley, easement, street or extension thereof shall be construed to be the
centerline of such railroad, highway, alley, easement, street or extension.
      (3)   A zoning district boundary line approximately following a lot line
or extension thereof within a subdivision shall be construed as following such
lot line or extension.
      (4)   Disputes concerning the exact locations of district boundary lines
shall be resolved by the Village Board after receiving a recommendation from
the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Zoning map amendments. Any change in zoning district boundaries or any
change in the zoning map made by amendment to this code shall be indicated on
the zoning map maintained by the Planning Director. The transfer of development
rights as provided for in Article 3.4 shall not require an amendment of the
zoning map. The zoning map shall be available for public inspection during
normal business hours.
   (D)   Village Greenway District boundaries.
      (1)   For a parcel or parcels of property under single ownership as of
August 1, 2005, that are more than five acres in area the zoning district
boundary lines defining the Village Greenway District can be adjusted on any
one occasion and only at the time an adjacent property is surveyed and sold
and/or developed. The boundary line may be adjusted up to a maximum of 300 feet
in any direction as long as there is a corresponding boundary relocation in the
adjoining district resulting in maintaining the same amount of area in the
Village Greenway District. The minimum width of the Village Greenway shall be
300 feet on the same parcel of property. All village greenway boundary
adjustments shall be reviewed by the Planning Director for conformity with this
code and the intent of the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   A parcel or parcels of property under single ownership that are not
of the same ownership as abutting parcels of property as of August 1, 2005 that
are five acres or less in area are exempt from the involuntary inclusion within
the Village Greenway District regardless of what may be illustratively
indicated on the village zoning map; however such properties are not exempt
from any applicable natural resource protection provisions, other district
standards, or other performance standards of the Village Development Code.
Property owners are encouraged to consider voluntary inclusion of their
property into the Village Greenway District, or to consider the overall concept
for the Village Greenway, as reflected in the Village’s Comprehensive Land Use
Plan, as part of the plans or use of the property including, and complementing
the natural resource features of the property and the area.
      (3)   The applicable zoning district for these properties shall be the
zoning district indicated on the village zoning map abutting the illustrative
depiction of the Village Greenway District in the area of the subject property.
In the event of more than one zoning district abutting the illustrative
depictions of the Greenway District on the village zoning map in the area of
the subject property, the provisions of division (B) above shall be applied.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1156.jpg]
   (E)   Zoning map availability. The zoning map certified as being inclusive
of all amendments shall be published annually and shall be made available for
sale in the office of the Planning Director.
   (F)   Entire area zoned. The entire incorporated area of the village,
including all land and water areas, rivers, streets, alleys and railroads and
other rights-of-way shall be included in the zoning districts established by
this code. Any area not shown on the zoning map as being included in any
district shall be deemed to be in the RR Rural Residential District.
   (G)   Zoning of annexed land. Any land hereafter annexed to the village
shall automatically be zoned in accordance with the village’s Comprehensive
Plan unless otherwise provided by ordinance or annexation agreement. Any land
to be annexed to the village pursuant to an annexation agreement shall be zoned
in accordance with the provisions thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2005-0-18, passed 4-11-2005; Ord. 2005-0-8, passed
8-8-2005)
ARTICLE 3.2. VILLAGE GREENWAY DISTRICT
§ 3.2-A PREAMBLE.
   (A)   The Village Greenway District has been designated to preserve and
enhance open space on a large scale throughout the village. The district
boundaries have been located to interconnect environmentally sensitive areas of
the village including large ponds, wetlands, floodplains and Mill Creek. The
district also acts as an open green buffer between the other land uses provided
for in this code and provides a visually attractive area for limited pedestrian
uses.
   (B)   For the purposes of permitted density transfers as discussed below,
the residential density allocated to this district is one and one-half dwelling
units per acre. The preservation of the district’s open land is of primary
importance. It is also anticipated that open space areas required in each
development site outside the Village Greenway will be connected wherever
possible to the Village Greenway District to maintain and enhance the village’s
overall natural ecosystem. In this respect, the Village Greenway District will
act as the overall open space framework for the village. To allow for this
preservation and to protect the value of the property to its owners, the
village has designed a system of density transfers, as described in detail in
Article 3.4, permitting the owners of property within the district to transfer
development rights outside of the Village Greenway District in exchange for
either donation of the property within the district to the association
established in cooperation and with the consent of the village for the
preservation and maintenance of open space (“Village’s Conservation
Association”) or execution of a recordable covenant forever prohibiting
development of the property.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.2-B TRANSFERS BETWEEN DISTRICTS.
   All transfers of development rights between the Village Greenway District
and the residential districts must be done in accordance with Article 3.4.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.2-C PERMITTED USES.
   There shall be no permitted uses within the Village Greenway District.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.2-D SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses are permitted in the Village Greenway District
when authorized in accordance with the procedures for special uses as set forth
in Article 16:
   (A)   Roadways, utilities and golf cart paths crossing the Village Greenway
District;
   (B)   Agricultural uses, including accessory farm buildings and structures
until individual land parcels are donated to the Village Conservation
Association;
   (C)   Equestrian/agricultural uses, including: horse farms for boarding,
breeding, performance or competition; training facilities; and accessory
buildings and structures, including related barns, stables, conference centers,
lodging, museums and retail uses;
   (D)   Historical sites or other landmarks preserved for public inspection
and operated on a not-for-profit basis;
   (E)   Land conservation areas, including wetlands mitigation, restoration,
shared stormwater drainage and prairie/savannah/woodland preservation projects;
   (F)   Non-motorized boating;
   (G)   Bicycling trails of a maximum width of eight feet;
   (H)   Cross country ski trails;
   (I)   Horseback riding trails (separate from biking trails);
   (J)   Hiking trails (non-paved); and
   (K)   Portions of golf courses located adjacent to the Village Greenway
extending into the Village Greenway in limited locations.
      (1)   A minimum width of 300 feet of Village Greenway property shall
remain after taking into account any areas of golf course encroachment. This
minimum width shall be kept as interconnected non-golf course open space.
      (2)   No portion of a golf course can cross or block the 300-foot minimum
width or be designed in such a manner as to hinder pedestrian access to the
interconnected Village Greenway.
      (3)   Any golf course development in the Village Greenway shall be
designed to preserve and enhance the Village Greenway’s natural setting,
including woodlands, wetlands and prairie.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1158.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.2-E TEMPORARY USES.
   No temporary uses are allowed in the Village Greenway District except for
fund-raising events for the Village Conservation Association.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.2-F ACCESSORY USES.
   In the Village Greenway District, accessory uses and structures as regulated
by Article 6 may include the following:
   (A)   Informational signs, subject to the provisions of Article 15; and
   (B)   Environmental monitoring equipment.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.2-G GREENWAY ACCESS.
   Access to all special and temporary uses allowed in the Village Greenway or
individual land parcels which are donated to the Village Conservation
Association is limited to members of the Village Conservation Association or
members of golf courses located in the Village Greenway. Any Village Greenway
District property that is not donated to the Village Conservation Association
shall remain private property with no right of public access.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 3.3. CORPORATE CAMPUS DISTRICT
§ 3.3-A PREAMBLE.
   (A)   A Corporate Campus District has been created to accommodate a variety
of corporate and related, non-industrial business development uses within the
district. The Corporate Campus District will permit corporate headquarters and
other corporate uses such as general office, training, data processing,
research and support facilities such as hotel/conference centers and
recreational facilities, including golf courses, meeting the requirements of
both the Comprehensive Plan and this code. The floor area ratio of each
corporate development will be subject to an overall floor area ratio of 0.18
throughout the zoning district.
   (B)   It is the intention of the village to establish a high-quality office
campus character coordinated throughout this district with low density
corporate and related uses and extensive open space. Use of the Tollway
frontage and major arterial highway frontage will enhance the value of these
office settings as will the adjacent Village Greenway District. Development of
corporate facilities in spacious, naturally landscaped settings which are
sensitive to conservation areas and are directly connected to the village’s
planned roadway system will be encouraged.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.3-B PERMITTED USE.
   The following uses are permitted uses in the Corporate Campus District:
   (A)   Corporate uses:
      (1)   Corporate headquarters;
      (2)   Administrative offices;
      (3)   Business offices in which goods, wares or merchandise are not sold
on the premises;
      (4)   Training centers;
      (5)   Research facilities and laboratories; and
      (6)   Data processing centers.
   (B)   Service establishments located within corporate structures:
      (1)   Bookkeeping services;
      (2)   Data processing services;
      (3)   Professional services; and
      (4)   Healthcare facilities.
   (C)   Support facilities located within corporate structures.
      (1)   Conference centers;
      (2)   Daycare centers; and
      (3)   Private dining facilities established in connection with corporate
uses.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.3-C SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses are permitted in the Corporate Campus District
when authorized in accordance with the procedures for special uses as set forth
in Article 16:
   (A)   Planning developments: uses included as permitted uses herein which do
not fully comply with the bulk regulations provided herein. All developments
exceeding 40 acres shall be considered a planned development;
   (B)   Public government uses:
      (1)   Police and fire stations; and
      (2)   Public works yards.
   (C)   Recreational:
      (1)   Golf courses;
      (2)   Health clubs within buildings; and
      (3)   Private parks and playing fields.
   (D)   Lodging facilities:
      (1)   Hotels/extended stay lodging; and
      (2)   Conference centers (free-standing).
   (E)   Educational institutions: colleges and universities;
   (F)   Equestrian/agricultural uses:
      (1)   Horse farms for boarding, breeding, performance or competition;
      (2)   Training facilities; and
      (3)   Accessory buildings and structures, including related barns,
stables, conference centers, lodging, museums and retail uses.
   (G)   Agricultural uses: includes accessory farm buildings and structures;
   (H)   Public utility/service uses;
   (I)   Multiple use facility or structure: a facility which includes one or
more of the corporate uses listed in § 3.3-B(A) as a principal use and
associated production activities as limited herein. All limited production
activities must be subordinate to and supportive of the principal use. All
limited production activities shall not generate significant volumes of truck
traffic and must be in compliance with all local, state and federal performance
standards for light, noise, vibration, smoke, odor, emissions and glare and the
village’s design and landscape standards; and
   (J)   Helicopter pads.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.3-D TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Temporary uses, buildings and structures may be allowed, subject to
the issuance of a temporary use permit in accordance with the provisions of
Article 6 and subject to the following restrictions.
   (B)   In the Corporate Campus District, only the following uses may be
permitted as temporary uses:
      (1)   Contractor’s office/equipment sheds; and
      (2)   Real estate sales and leasing offices.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.3-E ACCESSORY USES.
   In the Corporate Campus District, accessory uses, buildings and structures
as regulated by this code may include the following, as well as uses and
structures similar to the following:
   (A)   Garages and other parking facilities; and
   (B)   Signs, as regulated by this code.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.3-F BULK REGULATIONS.
   In the Corporate Campus District, uses and structures shall conform to the
following bulk regulations.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. A minimum lot area of ten acres is required for each
permitted use.
   (B)   Minimum lot width.
      (1)   For each permitted use, there shall be provided a minimum lot width
of 750 feet.
      (2)   For special uses, minimum lot widths greater than 750 feet are
required as a condition for authorization.
   (C)   Minimum yards.
      (1)   The following minimum yards measured from the property line shall
be provided and maintained:
         (a)   Front yard: a front yard of not less than 200 feet;
         (b)   Interior side yard: a side yard on each side of the principal
building of not less than 100 feet;
         (c)   Corner side yard:
            1.   A side yard along an internal collector street of not less
than 100 feet; and
            2.   A side yard along Crawford Road and/or Hunt Club Road of not
less than 200 feet.
         (d)   Rear yard: a rear yard of not less than 100 feet.
      (2)   Exceptions: For special uses, minimum yards of greater depth may be
required as a condition for authorization.
   (D)   Maximum site coverage. The total ground area occupied by any principal
building, together with all accessory buildings and impervious areas, shall not
exceed 30% of the total area of the lot.
   (E)   Maximum building height. No building or structure shall be erected or
structurally altered to exceed 45 feet in height, plus mechanical structures or
appurtenances as regulated in Article 2.
   (F)   Floor area ratio. The average overall gross density of development
permitted in the Corporate Campus District shall not exceed a floor area ratio
of 0.18. While the density within individual development sites may vary, it
shall not exceed a maximum floor area ratio of 0.20 within the intended site.
In the event a property owner presents a development proposal with density in
excess of the 0.18 floor area ratio per gross acre, such owner shall provide
evidence by covenant, contract or otherwise, establishing that the density of
other property in the Corporate Campus District owned or controlled by the
property owner has been restricted to density equal to an average of 0.18 floor
area ratio per gross acre less the total excess floor area ratio per gross acre
by which the proposed development exceeds the Corporate Campus District average
of 0.18 floor area ratio per gross acre.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1160.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.3-G DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   All of the property located in the Corporate Campus District is subject to
the general standards and regulations of this code. Property located in this
district is also subject to the following.
   (A)   Operations within enclosed buildings. The operations and activities of
all uses within this district, including the storage of materials but excluding
off-street parking, shall be conducted within completely enclosed structures.
   (B)   Design. Site and building design shall be in accordance with Article
9. All Corporate Campus District developments which are not planned
developments shall be submitted to the Planning Director for review as to
conformity with the Comprehensive Plan and this code. The owner shall submit
the same documentation required for planned developments as provided for in
Article 17.
   (C)   Lighting. All exterior lighting, parking lot lights, exterior building
lights and landscape lighting shall be in accordance with the provisions of
Article 9.
   (D)   Landscaping/screening. All yards and open space between and about
buildings, structures, off-street parking and loading areas and areas along
exterior and interior streets within the district shall be landscaped and
screened in accordance with the provisions of Article 10.
   (E)   Underground utility systems/transformers/metering equipment. All on-
site utility lines, including power and telephone lines, shall be located
underground. All transformer and terminal equipment and equipment for metering
the usage of water, natural gas, electricity and the like shall be located
underground or within buildings or shall be effectively screened from view from
roads, streets and adjacent properties as required in Article 10.
   (F)   Parking/loading requirements. Off-street parking and loading spaces
shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Article 13.
   (G)   Signs. Signs shall conform to the applicable regulations as set forth
in Article 15.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.3-H PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   It is the purpose of this section to establish regulations and standards for
the installation and operation of office and research uses, based upon
consideration of any objectionable characteristics of such uses. Further, it is
the intent of this section to prescribe procedures and methods of measurement
of these characteristics subject to the performance standards established
hereunder. All uses permitted in the Corporate Campus District, whether such
use is permitted as a principal use or as an accessory use, shall be subject to
these standards. Evidence of ability to comply shall be required prior to the
issuance of a building permit or a certificate of occupancy, and continued
compliance shall be required during the operation of such uses and activities.
   (A)   Specific standards. In the Corporate Campus District, the following
regulations shall apply.
      (1)   Noise.
         (a)   Permitted noise level. At no point on or beyond the boundary of
any lot which abuts a lot in the same zoning district shall the sound pressure
level resulting from any use or activity (except noises not directly under the
control of the property user, noises resulting from the construction and
maintenance of buildings and facilities including site preparation and the
noises of safety signals and warning devices) exceed the maximum permitted
decibel levels for the designated octave band as set forth in the table below.
Octave Bank Frequency in Cycles per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Pressure in
                                           Decibels
Octave Bank Frequency in Cycles per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Pressure in
                                           Decibels
0 - 74                                     67
75 - 149                                   59
150 - 299                                  52
300 - 599                                  46
600 - 1,199                                40
1,200 - 2,399                              34
2,400 - 4,799                              32
4,800 and over                             32
 
         (b)   Method of measurement. Sound levels shall be measured with a
sound level meter and associated octave band filter and impact noise filter
manufactured according to standards prescribed by the American Standards
Association. Measurements shall be made using the flat network and “slow” meter
response of the sound level meter. Impulsive-type noises shall be subject to
the performance standards herein prescribed; provided, that such noises are
capable of being accurately measured with such equipment. Noises capable of
being so measured, for the purpose of this code, shall be those noises which
cause rapid fluctuations of the needle of the sound level meter with a
variation of no more than plus or minus two decibels. Noises incapable of being
so measured, but objectionable because of intermittence, beat, frequency or
shrillness shall be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
      (2)   Vibration.
         (a)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            STEADY-STATE VIBRATIONS. Vibrations which are continuous or
vibrations in discrete pulses more frequent than 100 per minute. Discrete
pulses which do not exceed 100 impulses per minute shall not cause displacement
in excess of twice the values established below.
         (b)   Permitted vibration displacements. At no point on or beyond the
boundary of any lot shall the ground-transmitted steady-state or impact
vibration caused by any use or activity (except those not directly under the
control of the property user) exceed the limits as established in the following
table for the Corporate Campus District.
Steady-State Vibrations
Frequency in Cycles per Second Maximum Permitted Vibration Displacement in
                               Inches
Steady-State Vibrations
Frequency in Cycles per Second Maximum Permitted Vibration Displacement in
                               Inches
Less than 10                   0.0008
10 through 19                  0.0005
20 through 29                  0.0003
30 through 39                  0.0002
40 through 49                  0.0001
50 and over                    0.0001
 
      (3)   Smoke/particulate matter.
         (a)   The emission, from all sources within any lot or particulate
matter containing more than 5% by weight of particles having a particle
diameter larger than 44 microns is prohibited. Dust and other types of air
pollution borne by the wind from such sources as storage areas, yards and roads
within the boundaries of any lot shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate
landscaping, paving, watering, oiling or other acceptable means. Emission of
particulate matter from such sources in excess of the weight limitations
specified herein is prohibited. The emission of smoke or particulate matter of
a density equal to, or greater than, No. 2 on the Ringelmann Chart is
prohibited at all times, except as otherwise provided therein.
         (b)   The rate of emission of particular matter from all sources
within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed one pound per hour per acre.
         (c)   Measurement methods are as follows.
            1.   Smoke: For the purpose of grading the density of emission of
smoke, the Ringelmann Chart, published and used by the United States Bureau of
Mines, shall be employed.
            2.   Particulate matter: Determination of the total net rate of
emission of particulate matter within the boundaries of any lot shall be made
as follows: determine the maximum emission in pounds per hour from each source
of emission and divide this figure by the number of acres of lot area, thereby
obtaining the hourly rate of emission in pounds per acre. Add together the
individual rates of emission as derived above to obtain the total rate of
emission from all sources of emission within the boundaries of the lot. It is
this total that shall not exceed the rate of one pound per hour per acre.
      (4)   Odors.
         (a)   No continuous, frequent or repetitive emission of odors or odor-
causing substances which would be offensive at or beyond any property line will
be permitted. An odor emitted no more than 15 minutes in any one day and on not
more than two days in any calendar month shall not be deemed as continuous,
frequent or repetitive within the meaning of these regulations.
         (b)   The existence of an odor shall be presumed when the
concentration of the odor-causing substance in the air at any one point at or
beyond the property line of the emitting industry exceeds the lowest
concentration listed as the odor threshold for such substance in the Odor
Thresholds Table appearing in Chapter 5 of the Air Pollution Abatement Manual,
copyright 1952, by the Manufacturing Chemists’ Association, or as subsequently
amended.
         (c)   Substances not cited in said Table shall be deemed odorous when
analysis by a competent technician demonstrates that a discernible odor is
being emitted.
      (5)   Toxic/noxious matter.
         (a)   No emissions which would be demonstrably injurious to human
health, animals or plant life at or beyond the lot boundaries of any Corporate
Campus District property will be permitted.
         (b)   Where a Corporate Campus use could produce such emissions as a
result of accident or equipment malfunction, adequate safeguards considered
standard for safe operation in the industry involved shall be taken.
      (6)   Radiation hazards. The handling of radioactive materials, the
discharge of such materials into air and water and the disposal of radioactive
wastes shall be in conformance with the applicable regulations of the Atomic
Energy Commission and the state.
      (7)   Fire/explosive hazards.
         (a)   The storage and utilization of solid materials or products
ranging from free or active burning to intense burning is permitted, but only
if said materials or products are stored and utilized within completely
enclosed buildings having incombustible exterior walls and protected throughout
by an automatic fire extinguishing system. All activities involving the use
and/or storage and/or disposal of flammable or explosive material shall be
provided with adequate safety and protective devices against hazards of
firefighting and suppression equipment and devices standard to the industry
involved.
         (b)   The storage and utilization of pyrophoric and explosive powders
and dusts in excess of 1,000 pounds (except in original sealed containers or
storage of finished products in original sealed containers, which is not
restricted) at any one time is not permitted.
         (c)   The storage and utilization of flammable liquids or of materials
that produce flammable or explosive vapors or gases is permitted on any lot in
accordance with the following table.
 
Activities Involving Storage or Distribution
Total Permitted Quantities of Flammable Materials in Gallons
Closed Cup Flash Point in Degrees F Above Ground Below Ground
Greater than 187                    Prohibited   100,000
105 to 187                          Prohibited   40,000
Less than 105                       Prohibited   20,000
 
         (d)   When flammable gases are used, stored or manufactured and
measured in cubic feet, the quantity in cubic feet (at standard temperature and
pressure) permitted shall not exceed 300 times the quantities listed above.
      (8)   Glare/heat. Every use and activity shall be so operated that it
does not emit heat or heated air beyond the boundary of the lot on which it is
located. No direct or sky-reflected glare, whether from floodlights, from high
temperature processes such as combustion or welding, or otherwise, shall
emanate from any use or activity so as to be visible at any point on or beyond
the boundary of the lot on which such use or activity is located. This
restriction shall not apply to signs otherwise permitted by the provisions of
this code or other applicable ordinances, nor shall it apply to activities of a
temporary (such as the construction or maintenance of buildings and facilities)
or of an emergency nature. Night lighting necessary for safety and the
protection of property, such as at entrances or occupied outdoor parking or
storage areas, shall be excluded from this provision.
      (9)   Electromagnetic interference. There shall be no electromagnetic
interference that:
         (a)   Adversely affects at any point the operation of any equipment
other than that belonging to the creator of such interference; or
         (b)   Is not in conformance with the regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission.
      (10)   Materials/equipment storage. All storage of material and equipment
used in conjunction with permitted or special uses must be under enclosure and
shielded from public view.
      (11)   Enforcement. Where, in the opinion of the Planning Director, there
is a probable violation of any provision of this article, he or she is
empowered to have a qualified technician perform such investigations,
measurements and analyses as may be necessary to determine whether or not there
is in fact a violation of this article.
   (B)   Applications. All information and evidence submitted in applications
to indicate conformity with the performance standards set forth herein shall
constitute a certification and an agreement on the part of the applicant that
the proposed use can and will conform to such standards at all times.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 3.4. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 3.4-A PREAMBLE.
   (A)   The residential districts are intended to provide for a wide range of
housing types and compatible uses. A variety of residential, recreational,
institutional, agricultural and accessory uses are allowed as permitted uses.
Lower density residential communities are planned for the center and south
areas of the village. Through innovative flexible zoning within the center
area, the village intends to preserve its open character. This code is designed
to promote an emphasis on preservation of open space in all residential
districts by allowing clustering of home. To further protect environmentally
sensitive areas, the Village Greenway District provides an open green buffer
between the other land uses contemplated by this code.
   (B)   South of Route 173, the Village Greenway District will be surrounded
on its outer edges by medium density zoning districts. These medium density
zoning districts will permit two and three dwelling units per acre and are
located adjacent to major arterial roads. These zoning districts are intended
to accommodate single-family homes and town homes with a variety of lot sizes.
   (C)   This code also establishes higher density zoning districts, which
permit eight dwelling units per acre, to be located adjacent to major arterial
roads and concentrated at main intersections where there is anticipated to be
retail activity. While no areas presently within the village limits are
included in these districts, the comprehensive plan anticipates such
development in areas suitable for future annexation and thus, these districts
have been created. These zoning districts can accommodate small apartment
buildings, town homes, homes on smaller lots and senior housing facilities. To
encourage a more pedestrian-oriented, mixed use environment, these zoning
districts are clustered close to intersections.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.4-B RR RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   District description.
      (1)   The RR Rural Residential District (“RR District”) is intended to
provide for large lot homes, small farms, estates, golf course developments and
clustered homes on smaller lots with large common open spaces.
      (2)   To preserve open space in this area and to provide density and
development flexibility within the RR District two methods allowing the
transfer of development rights have been established. § 3.4-K of this article
establishes the procedures for these transfers of development rights.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Section 3.4-G of this article establishes the
permitted uses in the RR District.
   (C)   Special uses. Section 3.4-H of this article establishes the special
uses permitted in the RR District when in accordance with the procedures for
special uses as set forth in Article 16.
   (D)   Temporary uses. Section 3.4-I of this article establishes the
temporary uses, buildings or other structures which may be allowed in the RR
District subject to the issuance of temporary use permits in accordance with
the provisions of Article 6.
   (E)   Accessory uses. Section 3.4-J of this article establishes the
accessory uses and structures which are allowed in the RR District, subject to
the provisions of Article 6, temporary/accessory uses.
   (F)   Bulk regulations. In the RR District, uses and structures shall
conform to the following bulk regulations.
      (1)   Density. All property within the RR District shall have a maximum
density of 0.5 dwelling units per acre subject to the provisions of § 3.4-K of
this article establishing transfer development rights.
      (2)   Minimum lot area. For every single-family detached dwelling, there
shall be provided a lot having an area of not less than 40,000 square feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot width. For every lot used for a single-family detached
dwelling, there shall be provided a minimum lot width of 150 feet.
      (4)   Minimum yards.
         (a)   The following minimum yards shall be provided and maintained:
            1.   Front yard: a front yard of not less than 50 feet;
            2.   Interior side yard: two side yards on either side of the
principal building of not less than 30 feet each;
            3.   Corner side yard: a side yard along the street side of not
less than 50 feet;
            4.   Reversed corner side yard: a side yard along the street side
of no less than 50 feet, however, accessory structures shall not encroach into
the depth of the required front yard of the lot to the rear; and
            5.   Rear yard: a rear yard of not less than 50 feet.
         (b)   Exceptions: For special uses, minimum yards of greater dimension
may be required as a condition for authorization. For accessory uses and
structures to a single-family detached dwelling, the minimum setback from all
lot lines shall be ten feet.
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage. The total ground area occupied by any
principal building, together with all accessory buildings and impervious areas,
shall not exceed 30% of the total area of the lot.
      (6)   Maximum building height. No building or structure shall be erected
or structurally altered to exceed a height of 35 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1162.jpg]
   (G)   District standards. All of the property located in the RR District is
subject to the general standards and regulations of this code.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.4-C R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   District description.
      (1)   The R-1 Single-Family Residential District (“R-1 District”) is
intended to provide for single-family detached homes, small farms, estates,
golf course development and clustered homes on smaller lots with large common
open spaces.
      (2)   To preserve the open space in the nearby Village Greenway District
and to provide maximum flexibility within the district, a system allowing the
transfer of development rights has been created. Section 3.4-K of this article
establishes the procedures for this transfer of development rights.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Section 3.4-G of this article establishes the
permitted uses in the R-1 District.
   (C)   Special uses. Section 3.4-H of this article establishes the special
uses permitted in the R-1 District when in accordance with the procedures for
special uses as set forth in Article 16.
   (D)   Temporary uses. Section 3.4-I of this article establishes the
temporary uses, buildings or other structures which may be allowed in the R-
1 District subject to the issuance of temporary use permits in accordance with
the provisions of Article 6.
   (E)   Accessory uses. Section 3.4-J of this article establishes the
accessory uses and structures which are allowed in the R-1 District, subject to
the provisions of Article 6.
   (F)   Bulk regulations. In the R-1 District, uses and structures shall
conform to the following bulk regulations.
      (1)   Density. All property within the R-1 District shall have a maximum
density of one dwelling unit per acre subject to the provisions of § 3.4-K of
this article establishing transfer development rights.
      (2)   Minimum lot area. For every single-family detached dwelling, there
shall be provided a lot having an area of not less than 15,000 square feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot width. For every lot used for a single-family detached
dwelling, there shall be provided a minimum lot width of 100 feet.
      (4)   Minimum yards.
         (a)   The following minimum yards shall be provided and maintained:
            1.   Front yard: a front yard of not less than 30 feet;
            2.   Interior side yard: a side yard on either side of the
principal building of not less than ten feet and a combined total of side yards
of not less than 25 feet;
            3.   Corner side yard: a side yard along the street side of not
less than 30 feet;
            4.   Reversed corner side yard: a side yard along the street side
of no less than 30 feet, however, accessory structures shall not encroach into
an area equal in depth to the required front yard of the lot to the rear; and
            5.   Rear yard: a rear yard of not less than 50 feet.
         (b)   Exceptions: For special uses, minimum yards of greater dimension
may be required as a condition for authorization. For accessory uses and
structures to a single-family detached dwelling, the minimum setback from all
lot lines shall be ten feet.
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage. The total ground area occupied by any
principal building, together with all accessory buildings and impervious areas,
shall not exceed 40% of the total area of the lot.
      (6)   Maximum building height. No building or structure shall be erected
or structurally altered to exceed a height of 35 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1164.jpg]
   (G)   District standards. All of the property located in the R-1 District is
subject to the general standards and regulations of this code.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.4-D R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   District description.
      (1)   The R-2 Single-Family Residential District (“R-2 District”) is
designed to provide for a suburban environment of single-family residences at a
modest density.
      (2)   To preserve open space in the nearby Village Greenway District and
to provide maximum flexibility within the R-2 District, a system allowing the
transfer of development rights has been created. Section 3.4-K of this article
establishes the procedure for this transfer of development rights.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Section 3.4-G of this article establishes the
permitted uses in the R-2 District.
   (C)   Special uses. Section 3.4-H of this article establishes the special
uses in the R-2 District when in accordance with the procedures for special
uses as set forth in Article 16.
   (D)   Temporary uses. Section 3.4-I of this article establishes the
temporary uses, buildings or other structures which may be allowed in the R-
2 District, subject to the issuance of temporary use permits in accordance with
the provisions of Article 6.
   (E)   Accessory uses. Section 3.4-I of this article establishes the
accessory uses and structures which are allowed in the R-2 District, subject to
the provisions of Article 6.
   (F)   Bulk regulations. In the R-2 District, uses and structures shall
conform to the following bulk regulations.
      (1)   Density. All property within the R-2 District shall have a maximum
density of two dwelling units per acre, subject to the provisions of § 3.4-K of
this article establishing transfer development rights.
      (2)   Lot area.
         (a)   For every single-family detached dwelling, there shall be
provided a lot having an area of not less than 10,000 square feet.
         (b)   For every single-family attached dwelling, there shall be a lot
having an area of not less than 6,000 square feet per unit.
      (3)   Minimum lot width.
         (a)   For every lot used for a single-family detached dwelling, there
shall be provided a minimum lot width of 75 feet.
         (b)   For every lot used for a single-family attached dwelling, there
shall be provided a minimum lot width of 40 feet per unit.
         (c)   No more than four units single-family attached dwellings can be
developed on a single lot.
      (4)   Minimum yards.
         (a)   The following minimum yards shall be provided and maintained:
            1.   Front yard: a front yard of not less than 25 feet;
            2.   Interior side yard: a side yard on either side of the
principal building of not less than ten feet;
            3.   Reversed corner side yard: a side yard along the street side
of no less than 25 feet, however, accessory structures shall not encroach into
an area equal in depth to the required front yard of the adjacent lot to the
rear; and
            4.   Rear yard: a rear yard of not less than 25 feet.
         (b)   Exceptions: For special uses, minimum yards of greater dimension
may be required as a condition for authorization. For accessory uses and
structures to a single-family detached dwelling, the minimum setback from all
lot lines shall be ten feet.
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage. The total ground area occupied by any
principal building, together with all accessory buildings and impervious areas
shall, not exceed 50% of the total area of the lot.
      (6)   Maximum building height. No building or structure shall be erected
or structurally altered to exceed a height of 35 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1166.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1168.jpg]
   (G)   District standards. All of the property located in the R-2 District is
subject to the general standards and regulations of this code.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.4-E R-3 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   District description.
      (1)   The R-3 Single-Family Residential District (“R-3 District”) is
designed to provide for a suburban environment of single-family residences at a
modest density.
      (2)   To preserve open space in the nearby Village Greenway District and
to provide maximum flexibility within the district, a system allowing the
transfer of development rights has been created. Section 3.4-K of this article
establishes the procedure for this transfer of development rights.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Section 3.4-G of this article establishes the
permitted uses in the R-3 District.
   (C)   Special uses. Section 3.4-H of this article establishes the special
uses in the R-3 District when in accordance with the procedures for special
uses as set forth in Article 16.
   (D)   Temporary uses. Section 3.4-1 of this article establishes the
temporary uses, buildings or other structures which may be allowed in the R-
3 District subject to the issuance of temporary use permits in accordance with
the provisions of Article 6.
   (E)   Accessory uses. Section 3.4-J of this article establishes the
accessory uses and structures which are allowed in the R-3 District, subject to
the provisions of Article 6.
   (F)   Bulk regulations. In the R-3 District, uses and structures shall
conform to the following bulk regulations.
      (1)   Density. All property within the R-3 District shall have a maximum
density of three dwelling units per acre subject to the provisions of § 3.4-
K of this article establishing transfer development rights.
      (2)   Minimum lot area.
         (a)   For every single-family detached dwelling, there shall be
provided a lot having an area of not less than 7,500 square feet.
         (b)   For every single-family attached dwelling or two-family
dwelling, there shall be a lot having an area of not less than 5,000 square
feet per unit.
      (3)   Minimum lot width.
         (a)   For every lot used for a single-family detached dwelling, there
shall be provided a minimum lot width of 60 feet.
         (b)   For every lot used for a single-family attached dwelling, there
shall be provided a minimum lot width of 35 feet per unit.
         (c)   No more than seven units single-family attached dwellings can be
developed on a single lot.
      (4)   Minimum yards.
         (a)   The following minimum yards shall be provided and maintained:
            1.   Front yard: a front yard of not less than 25 feet;
            2.   Interior side yard: a side yard on either side of the
principal building of not less than seven feet and a combined total of side
yards of not less than 20 feet;
            3.   Corner side yard: a side yard along the street side of not
less than 25 feet;
            4.   Reversed corner side yard: a side yard along the street side
of no less than 25 feet, however, accessory structures shall not encroach into
an area equal in depth to the required front yard of the adjacent lot to the
rear; and
            5.   Rear yard: a rear yard of not less than 25 feet.
         (b)   Exceptions: For special uses, minimum yards of greater dimension
may be required as a condition for authorization. For accessory uses and
structures to a single-family detached dwelling, the minimum setback from all
lot lines shall be ten feet.
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage. The total ground area occupied by any
principal building, together with all accessory buildings and gravel or paved
areas, shall not exceed 50% of the total area of the lot.
      (6)   Maximum building height. No building or structure shall be erected
or structurally altered to exceed a height of 35 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1170.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1172.jpg]
   (G)   District standards. All of the property located in the R-3 District is
subject to the general standards and regulations of this code.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.4-F R-8 GENERAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   District description.
      (1)   The R-8 General Residence District (“R-8 District”) is designed to
provide for a suburban environment of higher density residential development
utilizing both single-family and multiple-family dwelling structures. This
district is most appropriately located adjacent to major arterial roads,
special retail districts and community facilities of the village.
      (2)   To preserve open space in the nearby Village Greenway District and
to provide maximum flexibility within the district, a system allowing the
transfer of development rights has been created. Section 3.4-K of this article
establishes the procedures for this transfer of development rights.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Section 3.4-G of this article establishes the
permitted uses in the R-8 District.
   (C)   Special uses. Section 3.4-H of this article establishes the special
uses permitted in the R-8 District when in accordance with the procedures for
special uses, as set forth in Article 16.
   (D)   Temporary uses. Section 3.4-I of this article establishes the
temporary uses, buildings or other structures which may be allowed in the R-
8 District subject to the issuance of temporary use permits in accordance with
the provisions of Article 6.
   (E)   Accessory uses. Section 3.4-J of this article establishes the
accessory uses and structures which are permitted in the R-8 District subject
to the provisions of Article 6.
   (F)   Bulk regulations. In the R-8 District, uses and structures shall
conform to the following bulk regulations.
      (1)   Density. All property in the R-8 District shall have a density of
eight dwelling units per acre subject to the provisions of § 3.4-K of this
article establishing transfer development rights.
      (2)   Minimum lot area.
         (a)   For every single-family detached dwelling, there shall be
provided a lot having an area of not less than 5,000 square feet.
         (b)   For every single-family attached dwelling, there shall be
provided a lot having an area of not less than 3,000 square feet per unit.
         (c)   For multiple-family dwellings, there shall be provided a lot
having a minimum lot area of 3,500 square feet for every four or more bedroom
dwelling unit; 3,000 square feet for every three-bedroom dwelling unit; 2,500
square feet for every two-bedroom dwelling unit; and 2,000 square feet for each
dwelling unit containing one or no bedrooms. The minimum total lot area for
multiple-family use shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot width.
         (a)   For every lot used for a single-family detached dwelling, there
shall be provided a minimum lot width of 40 feet.
         (b)   For lots used for a single-family attached dwelling, there shall
be provided a minimum lot width of 30 feet per unit.
         (c)   No more than seven units single-family attached dwellings can be
developed on a single lot.
         (d)   For lots used for a building containing multiple-family
dwellings, there shall be provided a minimum lot width of 100 feet.
      (4)   Minimum yards.
         (a)   The following minimum yards shall be provided and maintained:
            1.   Front yard: a front yard of not less than 20 feet;
            2.   Interior side yard: a side yard on either side of the
principal building of not less than five feet and a combined total of side
yards of not less than 12 feet;
            3.   Corner side yard: a side yard along the street side of not
less than 20 feet;
            4.   Reversed corner side yard: a side yard along the street side
of no less than 20 feet, however, accessory structures shall not encroach into
an area equal in depth to the required front yard of the adjacent lot to the
rear; and
            5.   Rear yard: a rear yard of not less than 15 feet.
         (b)   Exceptions: For special uses, minimum yards of greater dimension
may be required as a condition for authorization. For accessory uses and
structures to a single-family detached or two-family dwelling, the minimum
setback from all lot lines shall be five feet. For multiple-family dwellings,
the minimum interior side yard and the rear yard shall be increased by one-half
foot for each one foot that a building wall which is parallel (or nearly
parallel) to such lot line exceeds 40 feet in length.
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage. The total ground area occupied by any
principal building, together with all accessory buildings and gravel or paved
areas, shall not exceed 60% of the total area of the lot.
      (6)   Maximum building height. No building or structure shall be erected
or structurally altered to exceed a height of 45 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1174.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1176.jpg]
 
   (G)   District standards. All of the property located in the R-8 District is
subject to the general standards and regulations of this code.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.4-G PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted uses in the residential districts
specified:
 
                                    Residential Districts
Use                                 RR R-1 R-2 R-3 R-8
Residential uses:
   Multiple-family dwellings                    X
   Single-family attached dwellings     X   X   X
   Single-family detached dwellinXs X   X   X   X
 
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.4-H SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses are special uses in all residential districts except as
specified:
   (A)   Residential uses: group homes for the developmentally disabled in the
R-8 District only;
   (B)   Educational institutions:
      (1)   Childcare schools and centers when conducted on nonresidential
property;
      (2)   Elementary schools;
      (3)   Junior high schools;
      (4)   High schools; and
      (5)   Colleges and universities.
   (C)   Recreational and social facilities:
      (1)   Country clubs, including golf courses, tennis courts, swimming
pools and other recreational facilities;
      (2)   Conference centers;
      (3)   Golf courses;
      (4)   Recreational clubs, including tennis, racquetball, squash, handball
and swimming; and
      (5)   Private parks.
   (D)   Health/medical/care institutions: senior care facilities;
   (E)   Religious institutions:
      (1)   Churches, chapels, temples and synagogues; and
      (2)   Rectories, parsonages and parish houses.
   (F)   Social centers:
      (1)   Performing arts centers;
      (2)   Cultural centers; and
      (3)   Museums.
   (G)   Public, quasi-public and governmental uses:
      (1)   Historical sites or other landmarks preserved for public inspection
and operated not for profit;
      (2)   Cemeteries;
      (3)   Land conservation areas;
      (4)   Parks and playgrounds with or without support buildings;
      (5)   Civic, police firefighting facilities and public works; and
      (6)   Public libraries.
   (H)   Public utility/services:
      (1)   Bus passenger shelters; and
      (2)   Essential services.
   (I)   Equestrian/agricultural uses:
      (1)   Horse farms for boarding, breeding, performance or competition;
      (2)   Training facilities;
      (3)   Accessory buildings and structures including related barns,
stables, conference centers, lodging, museums and retail uses; and
      (4)   All equestrian uses must be conducted on lots not less than three
acres in size which have direct access to equestrian trails or the Village
Greenway District. No more than one hoofed animal will be allowed per one-half
acre of property. For purposes of calculating the one-half acre minimum, bodies
of water and septic areas on the property shall not be included.
   (J)   Agricultural uses: includes accessory farm buildings and structures;
and
   (K)   Planned developments: all single-family and multi-family dwellings
that are part of a development of more than five acres shall be considered a
planned development.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.4-I TEMPORARY USES.
   The following uses are temporary uses in all residential districts:
   (A)   Contractors’ offices and equipment sheds;
   (B)   House and garage sales;
   (C)   Real estate sales offices and models; and
   (D)   Block parties and street dances.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.4-J ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are accessory uses in all residential districts:
   (A)   Air conditioners;
   (B)   Antennas;
   (C)   Private conservatories;
   (D)   Dog runs;
   (E)   Fences, subject to Article 9;
   (F)   Garages and carports;
   (G)   Home occupations;
   (H)   Playhouses and summer houses;
   (I)   Signs, subject to Article 15;
   (J)   Swimming pools and tennis courts for the exclusive use of residents
and their guests;
   (K)   Tool sheds and similar storage areas;
   (L)   Stormwater retention and detention areas; and
   (M)   Attached accessory dwelling.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.4-K TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS.
   To preserve the open space in the Village Greenway District and to provide
development flexibility within the residential districts, two methods allowing
the transfer of development rights have been created. Each owner of property
located within the Village Greenway District will be allowed to transfer the
right to develop a maximum of one and one-half dwelling units per acre for each
acre lying in the Village Greenway District to any property the owner has lying
within any other residential district, provided that in no event shall any
individual development site in the residential district have an overall density
within said development greater than one unit per acre than is otherwise
permitted by the density established for said zoning district. For example,
property within the R-1 District, which can be developed with one dwelling unit
per acre, can be developed with up to two dwelling units per acre with the
transferred units. The exception to this rule is the RR District, which has a
permitted density of 0.5 dwelling units per acre and can only be increased up
to one unit per acre with transferred units. In addition, each owner of
property within the RR District will be allowed to transfer the right to
develop 0.5 dwelling units per acre owned by such owner in the RR District to
any other property of the owner elsewhere within the RR District, provided that
the development project which receives the development rights does not exceed
an overall density of one unit per acre. Each such transfer of dwelling unit
development rights by a property owner in the RR District pursuant to these
provisions shall reduce the number of RR District dwelling units thereafter
available for transfer by the owner of property in the RR District by the
number of dwelling unit development rights so transferred.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1180.jpg]
   (A)   Village Greenway District transfers. All transfers of development
rights between the Village Greenway District, and the residential districts
must be accomplished in accordance with the following procedures.
      (1)   The transfer of development rights from the Village Greenway
District to another property within the residential districts, other than the
RR District, shall not increase average gross density of the property which
receives the transferred rights to an overall gross density higher than one
additional dwelling unit per acre than is otherwise permitted in said zoning
district.
      (2)   The transfer of development rights from the Village Greenway
District to the RR District shall not increase average gross density of the RR
District property which receives the transferred rights to an overall gross
density greater than one unit per acre.
      (3)   The right to transfer development rights from the Village Greenway
District is limited and may be only exercised by Village Greenway District
property owners of record or their heirs, executors, administrators, appointees
or distributees (“owner”).
      (4)   Only an owner of Village Greenway District property as of the date
of adoption of this code shall be entitled to transfer the development rights
of such property in accordance with the provisions of this article, and such
transfer may only be to property owned by the owner or as a part of the owner’s
conveyance of such property to others.
      (5)   If an owner has transferred development rights of Village Greenway
District property, the owner is not required to designate the location of the
Village Greenway District property which has transferred its development rights
until the owner has conveyed ownership to, developed or transferred the
development rights of all of the owner’s Village Greenway District property.
      (6)   In the event an owner conveys any portion of Village Greenway
District property without an accompanying transfer of development rights, the
grantee must execute a covenant in recordable form satisfactory to the village
which forever prohibits development of the property so conveyed other than as
for those special uses allowed in the Village Greenway District pursuant to
Article 3.2.
      (7)   The grantee of any property which has received transferred
development rights from an owner of Village Greenway District property may
allocate at any subsequent time and by further conveyance of portions of said
property the dwelling units allocated to the property, subject to all
applicable provisions of this code.
      (8)   By virtue of the unique nature of this zoning technique, amendments
to the zoning map will not be required as a result of the transfer of
development rights. The village may, however, at its discretion, prepare an
overlay for the zoning map indicating the development rights of property which
has been transferred or has been allocated such rights.
      (9)   An owner of property within the Village Greenway District who has
transferred the development rights of all of his or her Village Greenway
District property will be required to either:
         (a)   Simultaneously transfer ownership of all of the owner’s Village
Greenway District property through dedication or conveyance to the Village
Conservation Association upon its establishment; or
         (b)   Simultaneously execute a covenant in recordable form
satisfactory to the village which forever prohibits development of the relevant
property other than as for those special uses allowed in the Village Greenway
District, pursuant to Article 3.2.
      (10)   An owner of any property transferring development rights must
submit to the Plan Commission, prior to the recording of any final plat of
subdivision or similar final approval document, a development transfer
declaration executed by the owner and the grantee of such property in
recordable form which identifies the owner transferring said development
rights, the property allocated such development rights and the number of
dwelling units transferred. Further, the declaration must demonstrate that the
overall density of the property receiving the transferred development rights is
in compliance with this article. All declarations transferring development
rights in compliance with the terms of this code shall be approved by the Plan
Commission.
      (11)   The development transfer declaration describing the transferred
development rights will be filed with the Village Clerk, placed in the village
records and recorded with the County Recorder’s office.
      (12)   The village’s records of transferred development rights are the
official records of all transfers of development rights as provided herein.
Said records shall be available for public inspection upon request.
      (13)   An owner shall agree to execute any and all documents requested by
the village from time to time deemed necessary to effectuate the transfer of
the development rights from the Village Greenway District.
      (14)   As part of its administrative function, the Plan Commission shall
have authority to oversee and review all transfers of development rights from
Village Greenway District property for the purpose of determining compliance
with this article.
   (B)   RR District transfers. All transfers of development rights within the
RR District must be accomplished in accordance with the following procedures.
      (1)   The transfer of development rights within the RR District shall not
increase the average gross density of the property which receives the
transferred rights to an overall gross density greater than one unit per acre.
      (2)   The right to transfer development rights within the RR District is
limited and may be only exercised by RR District property owners of record or
their heirs, executors, administrators, appointees or distributees (“owner”).
      (3)   Only an owner of RR District property as of the date of adoption of
this code shall be entitled to transfer the development rights of such property
in accordance with the provisions of this article, and such transfer may only
be to RR property owned by the owner or as a part of the owner’s conveyance of
such property to others.
      (4)   Once an owner has transferred development rights of RR District
property, the owner must designate which RR District property will receive the
transferred development rights. However, the owner is not required to designate
which RR District property is restricted in its future development as a result
of said transfer until the owner has conveyed ownership to, developed or
transferred the development rights of all of the owner’s RR District property.
      (5)   The grantee of any property which has received transferred
development rights from an owner of RR District property may allocate at any
subsequent time and by further conveyance of portions of said property the
dwelling units allocated to the property subject to all applicable provisions
of this code.
      (6)   By virtue of the unique nature of this zoning technique, amendments
to the zoning map will not be required as a result of the transfer of
development rights. The village may, however, at its discretion, prepare an
overlay for the zoning map indicating the development rights of property which
has been transferred or has been allocated such rights.
      (7)   An owner conveying or developing any portion of RR District
property must submit to the Plan Commission, prior to the recording of any
conveyance deed, final plat of subdivision or similar final approval document,
a development transfer declaration executed by the owner and grantee of such
property in recordable form which identifies the property to be conveyed or
developed and the number of acres and dwelling units assigned. The number of
dwelling units assigned to such property in the declaration may not be
thereafter increased or decreased. Each declaration must demonstrate that the
overall density of the property receiving the development rights is in
compliance with this article. All declarations transferring development rights
in compliance with the terms of this code shall be approved by the Plan
Commission.
      (8)   The development transfer declaration describing the transferred
development rights will be filed with the Village Clerk, placed in the village
records and recorded with the County Recorder’s office.
      (9)   The village’s records of transferred development rights are the
official records of all transfers of development rights as provided herein.
Said records shall be available for public inspection upon request.
      (10)   An owner shall agree to execute any and all documents requested by
the village from time to time deemed necessary to effectuate the transfer of
the development rights within the RR District.
      (11)   As part of its administrative function, the Plan Commission shall
have authority to oversee and review all transfers of development rights within
the RR District for the purpose of determining compliance with this article.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.4-L RC RESIDENTIAL COUNTRYSIDE DISTRICT.
   (A)   District description.
      (1)   The RC Residential Countryside (“RC District”) is intended for
large lot homes, small farms, estates, golf course developments and clustered
homes on smaller lots with large common open spaces.
      (2)   To preserve open space in this area and to provide density and
development flexibility within the RC District, two methods allowing the
transfer of development rights have been established. Section 3.4-K of this
article establishes the procedures for these transfers of development rights.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Single-family detached dwellings are permitted uses in
this zoning district.
   (C)   Special uses. Section 3.4-H of this article establishes the special
uses permitted in the RC District when in accordance with the procedures for
special uses as set forth in Article 16.
   (D)   Temporary uses. Section 3.4-I of this article establishes the
temporary uses, buildings or other structures which may be allowed in the RC
District subject to the issuance of temporary use permits m accordance with the
provisions of Article 6.
   (E)   Accessory uses. Section 3.4-J of this article establishes the
accessory uses and structures which are allowed in the RC District subject to
the provisions of Article 6.
   (F)   Bulk regulations. In the RC District, uses and structures shall
conform to the following bulk regulations.
      (1)   Density. All property within the RC District shall have a maximum
density of 0.5 dwelling units per acre subject to the provisions of § 3.4-K of
this article establishing transfer development rights.
      (2)   Minimum lot area. For every single-family detached dwelling, there
shall be provided a lot having an area of not less than two acres (87,120
square feet).
      (3)   Minimum lot width. For every lot used for a single-family detached
dwelling, there shall be provided a minimum lot width of 150 feet.
      (4)   Minimum yards.
         (a)   The following minimum yards shall be provided and maintained:
            1.   Front yard: a front yard of not less than 50 feet;
            2.   Interior side yard: two side yards on either side of the
principal building of not less than 30 feet each;
            3.   Corner side yard: a side yard along with street side of not
less than 50 feet;
            4.   Reversed corner side yard: a side yard along the street side
of no less than 50 feet, however, accessory structures shall not encroach into
the depth of the required front yard of the lot to the rear; and
            5.   Rear yard: a rear yard of not less than 50 feet.
         (b)   Exceptions: For special uses, a minimum yard of greater
dimension may be required as a condition for authorization. For accessory uses
and structures to a single-family detached dwelling, the minimum setback from
all lot lines shall be ten feet.
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage. The total ground area occupied by any
principal building, together with all accessory buildings and impervious areas,
shall not exceed 25% of the total area of the lot.
      (6)   Maximum building height. No building or structure shall be erected
or structurally altered to exceed a height of 35 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1180.jpg]
   (G)   District standards. All of the property located in the RC District is
subject to the general standards and regulations of this code.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
ARTICLE 3.5. SPECIAL RETAIL DISTRICT
§ 3.5-A PREAMBLE.
   (A)   A Special Retail District has been created to accommodate development
of property for a wide range of uses needed to serve the citizens of the
village and surrounding areas. The district will provide a harmonious, mixed
use spectrum of suburban shopping and service opportunities ranging from low
intensity small shops through community level shopping oriented toward more
heavily traveled locations.
   (B)   All development plans for properties over five acres in a Special
Retail District must be reviewed and approved in accordance with the procedures
and submittal requirements of a special use. All subsequent development of a
subject site must be in compliance with the bulk regulations except as may be
modified by an apparent variation or as an exception as part of an approved
special use or as regulated by the nonconforming regulations contained herein.
   (C)   The designated locations for this district in the Comprehensive Plan
provide direct access to major arterial roads and proximity to higher density
residential districts. The Special Retail District is intended to encourage a
variety of shopping opportunities as well as encourage enhancement of the
residential character and appearance of the village. Multiple-family dwellings
and single-family housing will be allowed as special uses within this district.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2011-0-2, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 3.5-B PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the Special Retail District:
   (A)   Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping offices;
   (B)   Antique shops;
   (C)   Art galleries;
   (D)   Art and school supply stores;
   (E)   Artists’ studios;
   (F)   Bakeries;
   (G)   Barber shops;
   (H)   Bath supply or accessory stores;
   (I)   Beauty shops;
   (J)   Bicycle stores: sales, rental and repair;
   (K)   Book and stationery stores;
   (L)   Cabinet sales establishments (not including cutting, assembling or
manufacturing on premises);
   (M)   Camera and photography supply stores;
   (N)   Candy and confectionery stores;
   (O)   Carpet, rug and floor covering stores, but not including carpet and
rug cleaning;
   (P)   Catalog sales (mail order with retail showroom);
   (Q)   Childcare schools and centers;
   (R)   China, glassware and metalware stores;
   (S)   Clock stores;
   (T)   Closet furnishing and accessory stores;
   (U)   Coin, stamp, precious metal or similar shops;
   (V)   Computer equipment and supplies stores;
   (W)   Craft supply stores;
   (X)   Delicatessens;
   (Y)   Department stores;
   (Z)   Drapery, curtain and window covering shops;
   (AA)   Drug stores and pharmacies;
   (BB)   Dry goods store;
   (CC)   Fabric and yarn stores;
   (DD)   Florist shops and plant stores, retail sales only;
   (EE)   Food stores and grocery stores;
   (FF)   Furniture stores, including upholstery and repair when conducted as
part of the retail operation and secondary to the principal use;
   (GG)   Furriers and fur apparel stores;
   (HH)   Garden supply shops;
   (II)   Gift shops;
   (JJ)   Glass and mirror shops;
   (KK)   Healthcare facilities;
   (LL)   Hardware stores, retail sales only;
   (MM)   Hobby shops;
   (NN)   Household appliance stores, including repair when conducted as part
of the retail operation and secondary to the principal use;
   (OO)   Ice cream and yogurt stores, but not including those operations which
sell a wide variety of other non-ice cream or yogurt menu items;
   (PP)   Interior decorating (with retail inventory on display);
   (QQ)   Jewelry stores;
   (RR)   Leather goods and luggage stores;
   (SS)   Liquor stores;
   (TT)   Luggage and suitcase stores;
   (UU)   Magazine and newspaper stores;
   (VV)   Meat and fish stores, retail sale only;
   (WW)   Medical appliance and supply stores;
   (XX)   Musical instruments, sales and repair;
   (YY)   Newspaper and magazine stores;
   (ZZ)   Office supply stores;
    (AAA)   Optician sales, retail sales only;
    (BBB)   Paint, glass and wall covering stores;
    (CCC)   Pet shops;
    (DDD)   Phonograph record, tape, compact disc and sheet music stores;
    (EEE)   Picture framing, including self-service, when conducted for on-
premises retail trade;
    (FFF)   Pool and patio stores (indoor only);
    (GGG)   Radio and television sales;
    (HHH)   Radio and television service and repair shops;
   (III)   Real estate offices;
   (JJJ)   Secretarial services;
    (KKK)   Security and commodity brokers;
    (LLL)   Shoe, clothing and hat repair shops;
   (MMM) Shoe stores;
    (NNN)   Sporting goods and sportswear stores;
    (OOO)   Tailor and dressmaking shops, employing not more than five persons;
    (PPP)   Tobacco shops;
    (QQQ)   Toy stores;
    (RRR)   Travel agencies and transportation ticket offices;
    (SSS)   Variety stores;
    (TTT)   Video tape and disk sales and rental; and
   (UUU)   Wearing apparel stores.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.5-C SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may only be permitted in the Special Retail
District if a special use permit is issued subject to the provisions of Article
16:
   (A)   Residential uses:
      (1)   Single-family attached dwellings, including townhouses;
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (3)   Apartments above shops;
      (4)   Senior care facilities;
      (5)   Group homes for developmentally disabled; and
      (6)   Single-family detached dwellings.
   (B)   Retail/business uses:
      (1)   Automobile accessory and parts shops, including servicing and
installation of products;
      (2)   Blueprinting and photocopying establishments;
      (3)   Business and professional offices;
      (4)   Business machine repair and service;
      (5)   Dry-cleaning and laundry establishments, including self-service,
coin-operated equipment; provided, that the floor area devoted to any one such
establishment (including floor area devoted to accessory uses as well as the
principal use) shall not exceed 2,000 square feet;
      (6)   Food catering establishments;
      (7)   Insurance agencies;
      (8)   Interior decorating shops, including upholstery and making of
draperies, slip covers and other similar articles, when conducted as part of
retail operations and secondary to the principal use;
      (9)   Medical and/or dental facilities;
      (10)   Medical and/or dental laboratories;
      (11)   Photographic studios; and
      (12)   Restaurants with or without liquor.
   (C)   Service uses:
      (1)   Automobile service stations; and
      (2)   Banks, savings and loan associations and other financial
institutions, with or without drive-in facilities.
   (D)   Recreation/social facilities:
      (1)   Clubs and lodges, private and not-for-profit;
      (2)   Theaters, indoor only, including live entertainment;
      (3)   Health centers, including physical exercise and sport training
schools; and
      (4)   Performing arts centers, cultural centers and entertainment
facilities.
   (E)   Public utility/service uses:
      (1)   Bus passenger shelters;
      (2)   Parking lots and structures when not located on the same lot as the
principal use to which it is necessary;
      (3)   Parking lots and structures, other than accessory for the storage
of private passenger automobiles only;
      (4)   Public utility offices; and
      (5)   Service structures.
   (F)   Educational institutions:
      (1)   Grade schools;
      (2)   Junior high schools;
      (3)   High schools;
      (4)   Business or professional schools, but not trade or vocational
schools; and
      (5)   Music and dance schools.
   (G)   Public/governmental land and buildings:
      (1)   Historical buildings and landmarks preserved for public inspection
and operated not-for-profit;
      (2)   Museums, operated not-for-profit;
      (3)   Post offices; and
      (4)   Public parks, plazas, arcades and recreational facilities.
   (H)   Equestrian/agricultural uses:
      (1)   Horse farms for boarding, breeding, performance or competition;
      (2)   Training facilities; and
      (3)   Accessory buildings and structures including related barns,
stables, conference centers, lodging, museums and retail uses.
   (I)   Agricultural uses: includes accessory farm buildings and structures;
   (J)   Religious institutions:
      (1)   Places of worship; and
      (2)   Residences for religious personnel.
   (K)   Planned developments.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2007-0-5, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 3.5-D TEMPORARY USES.
   Temporary uses, buildings or other structures may be allowed subject to the
issuance of temporary use permits in accordance with the provisions of Article
6.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.5-E ACCESSORY USES.
   In the Special Retail District, accessory uses and structures as regulated
by this code, may include the following as well as uses and structures similar
to the following:
   (A)   Garages or other parking spaces;
   (B)   Signs, as regulated by the terms of this code; and
   (C)   Fences, as regulated by the terms of this code.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.5-F BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The bulk regulations of this section for all areas that are
not within the Historic Millburn Area shall be as follows.
      (1)   Residential uses. In the Special Retail District, residential uses
and structures shall conform to the bulk regulations of the R-8 District. See
Article 3.4.
      (2)   Retail uses. In the Special Retail District, retail uses and
structures shall conform to the following bulk regulations.
         (a)   Minimum lot areas. A minimum lot area is not required.
         (b)   Minimum lot width. A minimum lot width is not required.
         (c)   Minimum yards. The following minimum yards shall be provided and
maintained:
            1.   Front yard: not less than ten feet;
            2.   Side yard: A minimum side yard shall not be required except: A
corner side yard shall not be less than ten feet; and a reversed corner side
yard adjoining a residential block or a residential district shall be no less
than the adjoining residential front yard setback; and
            3.   Rear yard: not less than ten feet, except that a rear yard
adjoining the residential district or property used for residential purposes
shall be no less than 25 feet in depth, measured from the district line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1182.jpg]
      (3)   Maximum lot coverage. The total ground area occupied by any
principal building, together with all accessory buildings and gravel or paved
areas, shall not exceed 50% of the total area of the lot.
      (4)   Maximum building height. No building or structure shall be erected
or structurally altered which exceeds a height of 35 feet.
      (5)   Floor area ratio. The average gross density of civic, retail and
support office development permitted shall not exceed a floor area ratio of
0.5. Dwelling units located above ground level uses shall not to be used in
calculating floor area ratio or average dwelling unit requirements. Land
developed with residential uses only shall not be included when calculating
floor area ratio.
   (B)   Historic Millburn Area. The bulk regulations of this section for all
areas that are within the Historic Millburn Area that is defined as being that
area within the SR District that is within the following distances from the
center of the intersection of Millburn and U.S. Route 45 as it is so located in
2015: north 2,100 feet, east 500 feet, south 2,500 feet and west 1,200 feet,
shall be as follows.
      (1)   The bulk conditions of any existing building or structure that is
existing on the date of the adoption of this amendment on November 2, 2015,
shall be recognized as being a legal nonconforming bulk condition and any
replacement or addition to an existing building or structure is permitted
consistent with the existing bulk conditions of said building or structure.
      (2)   For a new building or structure, the bulk regulations of divisions
(A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4) and (A)(5) above shall apply.
      (3)   For a new building or structure, the bulk regulations of division
(A)(3) above shall be as follows: The total ground area occupied by any
principal building, together with all accessory buildings and gravel or paved
areas, shall not exceed 75% of the total area of the lot.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2015-0-4, passed 11-2-2015)
ARTICLE 3.5-1. SPECIAL RETAIL 3 DISTRICT
§ 3.5-1-A PREAMBLE.
   (A)   The Special Retail 3 District (SR-3) has been created to accommodate
development of property for a wide range of uses similar to the Special Retail
District, but with additional regulations related to the size and scale of
buildings and the maximum gross and net residential densities. The SR-
3 District will provide a harmonious mixed use spectrum of suburban shopping
and service opportunities ranging from low intensity small shops to medium
sized Village Center type buildings including business, service, office,
governmental and limited scale residential buildings.
   (B)   The maximum floor area for any building for a permitted use shall not
exceed 5,000 square feet, and a special use review and approval is required
before any permitted use or special use shall be built or take occupancy in a
building or a portion of a building exceeding 5,000 square feet.
   (C)   The maximum gross density for any residential use in the SR-3 District
is three residential units per acre. Residential uses developed as part of a
mixed use, commercial, governmental or open space development, as part of a
special use or planned unit development, may be approved to allow the three
residential units per gross density to be developed to a maximum net
residential density of eight residential units per acre on a portion of the
larger property.
(Ord. 2011-0-2, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 3.5-1-B PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Sections 3.4-G and 3.4-H include lists of permitted and special uses
that are also applicable as permitted or special uses in the SR-3 District. The
following table indicates additional permitted and special uses for the SR-
3 District. To the extent that any use is listed as a special use in the
following table, but is listed as a permitted use in § 3.4-G, then the
permitted use designation applies in the SR-3 District.
   (B)   The maximum floor area for any building for a permitted use shall not
exceed 5,000 square feet and a special use review and approval is required
before any permitted use or special use shall be built or take occupancy in a
building or a portion of a building exceeding 5,000 square feet.
Special Retail 3 District (SR-3)
Permitted and Special Uses
Special Retail 3 District (SR-3)
Permitted and Special Uses
P = Permitted use; S = Special or conditional use
Use
Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping offices                                   P
Agricultural uses, including accessory farm buildings and structures           S
Agricultural use without farm animals                                          P
Animal hospital, indoor only                                                   S
Antique shops                                                                  P
Art galleries                                                                  P
Art and school supply stores                                                   P
Artist studios                                                                 P
Auditoriums, stadiums, arenas, armories, gymnasiums, theaters (indoor),
bowling alleys, skating rinks and other similar places of entertainment or     S
public events
Automobile accessory and parts shops, including servicing and installation of  S
products
Automobile/gasoline service station                                            S
Automobile service stations                                                    S
Bakeries                                                                       P
Banks and financial institutions, without drive-up facilities                  P
Banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions, with    S
drive-up facilities
Barber, beauty, chiropody or similar personal service shops                    P
Barber shops                                                                   P
Bath supply or accessory stores                                                P
Beauty shops                                                                   P
Bed and breakfast, exceeding four bedrooms                                     S
Bed and breakfast, not to exceed four bedrooms                                 P
Bicycle stores: sales, rental and repair                                       P
Blueprinting and photocopying establishments                                   P
Books and stationery stores                                                    P
Building operators, apartment and nonresidential office space only             P
Bus passenger shelters                                                         P
Bus terminal, railroad passenger station or other public transportation        S
terminal facilities
Business machine repair and services                                           P
Business and professional offices                                              P
Cabinet sales establishments (not including cutting, assembling or             P
manufacturing on premises)
Camera and photographic supply shops                                           P
Candy and confectionery stores                                                 P
Carpet, rug and floor covering stores, but including carpet and rug cleaning   P
Catalog sales (mail order with retail showroom)                                P
Childcare schools and centers                                                  P
Child daycare services                                                         S
China, glassware and metalware stores                                          P
Clock stores                                                                   P
Closet furnishing and accessory stores                                         P
Clothing and wearing apparel stores                                            P
Clubs and lodges (nonprofit), fraternal or religious institutions. Already     P
established: Millburn Church and Masonic lodge
Clubs and lodges, private and not-for-profit                                   S
Coin-operated, self-servicing, dry-cleaning establishments                     S
Coin, stamp, precious metal or similar shops                                   P
Convenience stores (without the dispensing of gasoline)                        P
Convenience stores (with dispensing of gasoline)                               S
Computer equipment and supplies stores                                         P
Craft supply stores                                                            P
Currency exchanges                                                             S
Custom dressmaking, millinery, tailoring or shoe repair shops, when conducted  P
for retail sales on the premises only
Delicatessens                                                                  P
Department stores                                                              P
Drapery, curtain and window covering shops                                     P
Drugstores and pharmacies                                                      P
Dry-cleaning and laundry establishments, including self-service, coin-operated
equipment; provided, that the floor area devoted to any one such establishment S
(including floor area devoted to accessory uses as well as the principal use)
shall not exceed 2,000 square feet
Dry goods stores                                                               P
Educational institutions (schools, trade and professional, music and dance)    P
Electrical appliance stores and repairs, but not including appliance assembly  S
or manufacture
Equestrian, accessory buildings and structures including related barns,        S
stables, conference centers, lodging, museums and retail uses
Equestrian, horse farms for boarding, breeding, performance or competition,    S
training
Fabric and yarn stores                                                         P
Florist shops and plant stores, retail sales only                              P
Food catering                                                                  P
Food stores, grocery stores                                                    P
Furniture stores, including upholstering, when conducted as part of the retail P
operations and secondary to the principal use
Furriers and fur apparel stores                                                P
Garden supply shops                                                            P
Garment pressing and cleaners’ agents                                        P
General merchandise stores                                                     P
Gift shops                                                                     P
Glass and mirror shops                                                         P
Government buildings                                                           P
Government use                                                                 P
Greenhouse retail                                                              S
Haberdasheries                                                                 P
Hardware stores, retail only                                                   P
Healthcare facilities                                                          P
Health centers, including physical exercise and sport training schools         S
Historical buildings and landmarks preserved for public inspection and         S
operated not-for-profit
Hobby shops                                                                    P
Hobby stores, for retail of items to be assembled or used away from the        P
premises
Horse farm and associated facilities                                           S
Hotel, not to exceed 4 bedrooms                                                S
Household appliance stores, including repair when conducted as part of the     P
retail operation and secondary to the principal use
Ice cream and yogurt stores, but not including those operation which sell a    P
wide variety of other non-ice cream or yogurt menu items
Insurance agents                                                               P
Insurance carriers                                                             P
Interior decorating (with retail inventory on display)                         P
Interior decorating shops, including upholstering and making of draperies,
slipcovers and other similar articles, when conducted as part of the retail    P
operations and secondary to the principal use
Jewelry stores, including watch repair                                         P
Leather goods and luggage stores                                               P
Library                                                                        P
Liquor store                                                                   S
Luggage and suitcase stores                                                    P
Magazine and newspaper stores                                                  P
Meat and fish stores, retail sale only                                         P
Medical appliance and supply stores                                            P
Medical and dental laboratories                                                S
Medical and dental offices and facilities, general doctors office              P
Meeting halls/religious - already in existing Millburn Church and Masonic      P
lodge
Membership organizations                                                       P
Museums                                                                        P
Museums, operated not-for-profit                                               P
Musical instrument sales and repair                                            P
Office supply stores                                                           P
Optician sales, retail sales only                                              P
Opticians, optometrists                                                        P
Paint glass and wall coverings stores                                          P
                                                                               See
Parks, arcades and recreational facilities                                     public
                                                                               parks
Parking lots, as a principal use for neighboring business lot                  S
Parking lots and structures, other than accessory for the storage of private   S
passenger automobiles only
Performing arts centers, cultural centers and entertainment facilities         P
Pet shops                                                                      P
Phonograph record, tape, compact disc and sheet music stores                   P
Photography studios                                                            P
Photography studios, including the developing of film and pictures when        P
conducted as part of the retail business on the premises
Picture framing, including self-service, when conducted for on-premises retail P
trade
Planned development                                                            S
Plumbing showrooms, without shop or repair facilities                          P
Pool and patio stores (indoor only)                                            P
Pool and patio stores (outdoor displays)                                       S
Post office                                                                    P
Public utility offices                                                         S
Public parks, plazas, arcades and recreational facilities                      S
Public utility service structures                                              S
Radio and television broadcasting stations                                     S
Radio and television sales                                                     P
Radio and television service and repair shops                                  P
Real estate offices                                                            P
Religious institutions (places of worship and residences for religious         P
personnel)
Residential, apartments, above shops, accessory to principal commercial use    S
Residential, multiple-family                                                   S
Residential, single-family, attached including townhouses                      S
Residential, single-family, detached                                           S
Residential, group homes for developmentally disabled                          S
Residential, senior care facilities                                            S
Restaurants, tearooms or cafés, when the establishments are not of the drive- P
in type
Restaurants with or without liquor - subject to a liquor license               P
Re-upholstery and furniture repair                                             P
Savings and loan associations, without drive-up facilities - small             P
establishment 2,000 square feet maximum
Savings and loan associations, with drive-up facilities                        S
Secretarial services                                                           P
Security and commodity brokers                                                 P
Sewing machine sales and service                                               P
Sewing, needlework and piece goods                                             P
Shoe, clothing and hat repair shops                                            P
Shoe repair and shoeshine parlors                                              P
Shoe stores                                                                    P
Signs, as defined and regulated by village ordinance                           P
Sporting goods and sportswear stores                                           P
Stationery store                                                               P
Tailor, dressmaking shops and apparel repair                                   P
Tattoo and piercing studio subject to licensing requirements
Tax return services                                                            P
Telegraph offices                                                              S
Telephone booths                                                               S
Telephone exchanges                                                            S
Theaters, indoor only, including live entertainment                            S
Tobacco shops                                                                  P
Toy stores                                                                     P
Travel agencies and transportation ticket offices                              P
Used merchandise store - retail; not including not for profit or charitable    S
Variety stores                                                                 P
Video tape and disk rental and sales                                           P
Watch, clock and jewelry repair                                                P
Wearing apparel stores                                                         P
Wildlife sanctuaries and nature areas                                          S
P = Permitted use - occupancy permit
S = Special use - requires public hearing
 
(Ord. 2011-0-2, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 3.5-1-C TEMPORARY USES.
   Temporary uses, buildings or other structures may be allowed subject to the
issuance of temporary use permits in accordance with the provisions of Article
6.
(Ord. 2011-0-2, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 3.5-1-D ACCESSORY USES.
   In the Special Retail 3 District, accessory uses and structures as regulated
by this code may include the following as well as uses and structures similar
to the following:
   (A)   Garages or other parking spaces;
   (B)   Signs, as regulated by the terms of this code; and
   (C)   Fences, as regulated by the terms of this code.
(Ord. 2011-0-2, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 3.5-1-F BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Residential uses. In the Special Retail 3 District, residential uses
and structures, when developed separate from a mixed use development, shall
conform to the bulk regulations of the R-3 District. For residential uses
developed in a mixed use development with nonresidential uses on properties
over five acres, the gross residential density of the total development lot
area shall not exceed a gross density of three residential units per acre;
however, the net residential density for the portion of the zoning lot area for
residential use may be developed to a maximum of eight units per acre and
subject to special use review and approval and subject to the bulk regulations
of the R-8 District except as may be modified by an approved variation or as an
exception as part of an approved special use or as regulated by the
nonconforming regulations contained herein. See Article 3.4.
   (B)   Retail and other nonresidential uses. In the Special Retail 3
District, retail and other nonresidential uses and structures shall conform to
the following bulk regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot areas. A minimum lot area is not required.
      (2)   Minimum lot width. A minimum lot width is not required.
      (3)   Minimum yards. The following minimum yards shall be provided and
maintained:
         (a)   Front yard: not less than ten feet;
         (b)   Side yard:
            1.   A minimum side yard shall not be required for an attached
building;
            2.   A minimum side yard shall not be less than ten feet for a
detached building and a corner side yard; and
            3.   A reversed corner side yard adjoining a residential block or a
residential district shall be no less than the adjoining residential front yard
setback.
         (c)   Rear yard: not less than ten feet, except that a rear yard
adjoining the residential district or property used for residential purposes
shall be no less than 25 feet in depth, measured from the district line.
   (C)   Maximum lot coverage. The total ground area occupied by any principal
building, together with all accessory buildings and gravel or paved areas,
shall not exceed 50% of the total area of the lot.
   (D)   Maximum building height. No building or structure shall be erected or
structurally altered which exceeds a height of 35 feet.
   (E)   Floor area ratio. The average gross density of civic, retail and
support office development permitted shall not exceed a floor area ratio of
0.5. Dwelling units located above ground level uses shall be used in
calculating floor area ratio. Land developed with residential uses only shall
be included when calculating floor area ratio.
(Ord. 2011-0-2, passed 5-9-2011)
ARTICLE 3.6. VILLAGE CENTER DISTRICT
§ 3.6-A PREAMBLE.
   (A)   The Village Center District is provided to establish a focal point for
the grouping of civic, institutional and educational uses to serve the village.
Civic uses such as municipal offices, public libraries, post offices and other
governmental facilities complementing the architectural character of and
consistent with the objectives of the Village Center District are permitted in
this district. To encourage development of a mixed-use Village Center District
in a cohesive and attractive manner and to support the civic uses, retail uses
such as small shops, restaurants and service facilities will also be permitted.
Certain types of residential development will be permitted; provided, that
minimum area requirements are met and conformity with both the Comprehensive
Plan and this code are established.
   (B)   In the early stages of the village’s growth, all development plans in
the Village Center District must be reviewed and approved in accordance with
the procedures and submittal requirements of planned developments. All
subsequent development of a subject site must be in compliance with the bulk
regulations contained herein.
   (C)   Emphasis will be placed on creating a rural town square ambience by
grouping together both the public and private facilities to encourage
pedestrian rather than vehicular movement within the Village Center and by use
of existing topographical and other natural features to enhance this special
setting.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.6-B PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the Village Center District:
   (A)   Public/quasi-public/governmental uses:
      (1)   Civic, police and firefighting facilities;
      (2)   Community centers;
      (3)   Governmental buildings and uses;
      (4)   Historical buildings and landmarks preserved for public inspection
and operated not-for-profit;
      (5)   Museums and cultural centers, operated not-for-profit;
      (6)   Post offices;
      (7)   Public libraries; and
      (8)   Public parks, plazas and playgrounds and village green.
   (B)   Institutional uses: outpatient healthcare;
   (C)   Religious uses:
      (1)   Places of worship; and
      (2)   Residences for religious personnel.
   (D)   Lodging facilities: hotels, inns and similar types of lodging
facilities.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.6-C SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the Village Center District as special
uses when authorized in accordance with the procedures for special uses set
forth in Article 16.
   (A)   Residential uses:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Single-family attached dwellings, including townhouses;
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings; and
      (4)   Apartments above shops or offices.
   (B)   Retail/business uses:
      (1)   Convenience and specialty retail shops;
      (2)   Business and professional offices; and
      (3)   Restaurants with and without liquor service.
   (C)   Equestrian/agricultural uses:
      (1)   Horse farms for boarding, breeding, performance or competition;
      (2)   Training facilities; and
      (3)   Accessory buildings and structures, including related barns,
stables, conference centers, lodging, museums and retail uses.
   (D)   Agricultural uses: includes accessory farm buildings and structures;
and
   (E)   Planned developments.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.6-D TEMPORARY USES.
   Temporary uses, buildings or other structures may be allowed subject to the
issuance of temporary use permits in accordance with the provisions of Article
6.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.6-E ACCESSORY USES.
   In the Village Center District, accessory uses and structures may include
the following as well as uses and structures similar to the following, in
addition to those other accessory uses regulated by the code in Article 6:
   (A)   Garages or other parking spaces;
   (B)   Signs, as regulated by the terms of this code;
   (C)   Fences, as regulated by the terms of this code; and
   (D)   Bus shelters.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 3.6-F BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Residential uses. All residential uses in the Village Center District
must comply with the bulk regulations of the R-8 District. See Article 3.4.
   (B)   Nonresidential uses. In the Village Center District, nonresidential
uses and structures shall conform to the following bulk regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot areas. A minimum lot area is not required.
      (2)   Minimum lot width. A minimum lot width is not required.
      (3)   Minimum yards. The following minimum yards shall be provided and
maintained.
         (a)   Front yard. Buildings fronting on the Village Greenway District
open space shall be built to the property line. All others not less than ten
feet.
         (b)   Side yard. A minimum side yard shall not be required except: A
corner side yard shall not be less than ten feet; and a reversed corner side
yard adjoining a residential block shall be no less than the residential front
yard setback.
         (c)   Rear yard. Not less than ten feet, except that a rear yard
adjoining the Residential District or property used for residential purposes
shall be no less than 25 feet in depth, measured from the district line or the
residential property line.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage. The total ground area occupied by any
principal building, together with all accessory buildings and gravel and paved
areas, shall not exceed 75% of the total area of the lot.
      (5)   Maximum building height. No building or structure shall be erected
or structurally altered which exceeds a height of 35 feet.
      (6)   Floor area ratio. The average gross density of civic, retail and
support office development permitted shall not exceed a floor area ratio of
0.5. Dwelling units located above ground level uses shall not be considered in
calculating floor area ratio or average dwelling unit requirements. Land
developed with residential uses only shall not be included when calculating
floor area ratio.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1184.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 3.7. BUSINESS PARK DISTRICT
§ 3.7-A PREAMBLE.
   (A)   A Business Park District has been created to accommodate a wide
variety of business, light industrial and research uses within the district,
which take advantage of the village’s Tollway and major arterial frontages. The
Business Park District will permit product development, engineering, sales,
administration and research. Limited research and limited manufacturing uses
are allowed if functional or operational characteristics of a hazardous or
nuisance nature can be mitigated through design controls. Limited warehousing,
wholesaling and distribution activities may also be allowed if they can be
conducted in a manner consistent with the character of the designated area.
   (B)   It is the intention of the village to establish a Business Park
District characterized by superior site planning, landscaping and architectural
design. Development of business parks in spacious highly landscaped settings
that are directly connected to the village’s arterial roadway system will be
encouraged.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.7-B PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the Business Park District:
   (A)   Business uses:
      (1)   Administrative offices;
      (2)   Business offices, in which goods or merchandise are not sold on-
premises;
      (3)   Engineering offices;
      (4)   Sales offices;
      (5)   Training centers;
      (6)   Research facilities and laboratories;
      (7)   Data processing centers;
      (8)   Limited warehousing and distribution centers;
      (9)   Product development, servicing and processing;
      (10)   Limited material testing, servicing and cleaning;
      (11)   Wholesale and bulk goods; and
      (12)   Limited manufacturing uses when activities are completely enclosed
within buildings.
   (B)   Service uses: public utility and public service uses.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.7-C SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses are permitted in the Business Park District when
authorized in accordance with the procedures for special uses as set forth in
Article 16:
   (A)   Planned developments: uses included as permitted uses which do not
fully comply with the bulk regulations provided herein. All developments
exceeding 20 acres shall be considered a planned development;
   (B)   Public/government uses:
      (1)   Police and fire stations; and
      (2)   Public works yards.
   (C)   Recreational:
      (1)   Golf courses;
      (2)   Health clubs within buildings; and
      (3)   Private parks and playing fields.
   (D)   Lodging facilities:
      (1)   Hotels/extended stay lodging; and
      (2)   Conference centers (free-standing).
   (E)   Educational institutions: colleges and universities;
   (F)   Equestrian/agricultural uses:
      (1)   Horse farms for boarding, breeding, performance or competition;
      (2)   Training facilities; and
      (3)   Accessory building and structures, including: related barns,
stables, conference centers, lodging, museums and retail uses.
   (G)   Agricultural uses, including accessory farm buildings and structures;
   (H)   Public utility/service uses;
   (I)   Multiple use facility or structure: a facility, which includes one or
more of the business uses, listed in § 3.7-B(A) as a principle use and
associated production activities that are subordinate to and supportive of the
principal use. All production activities shall not generate significant volumes
of truck traffic and must be in compliance with all local, state and federal
performance standards for light, noise, vibration, smoke, odor, emissions and
glare and the village’s design and landscape standards; and
   (J)   Helicopter pads.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.7-D TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Temporary uses, buildings and structures may be allowed subject to the
issuance of a temporary use permit in accordance with the provisions of Article
6, subject to the following restrictions.
   (B)   In the Business Park District, only the following uses may be
permitted as temporary uses:
      (1)   Contractor’s office/equipment sheds; and
      (2)   Real estate sales and leasing offices.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.7-E ACCESSORY USES.
   In the Business Park District, accessory uses, buildings and structures as
regulated by this code, may include the following, as well as uses and
structures similar to the following:
   (A)   Garages and other parking facilities; and
   (B)   Signs, as regulated by this code.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.7-F BULK REGULATIONS.
   In the Business Park District, uses and structures shall conform to the
following bulk regulations.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. A minimum lot area of five acres is required for
each permitted use.
   (B)   Minimum lot width.
      (1)   For each permitted use, there shall be provided a minimum lot width
of 300 feet.
      (2)   For special uses, minimum lot widths greater than 300 feet are
required as a condition for authorization.
   (C)   Minimum yards.
      (1)   The following minimum yards measured from the property line shall
be provided and maintained:
         (a)   Front yard: a front yard of not less than 100 feet;
         (b)   Interior side yard: a side yard on each side of the principal
building of not less than 50 feet and if adjacent to a residential district of
100 feet;
         (c)   Corner side yard: a side yard along a collector or arterial
street of not less than 50 feet; and
         (d)   Rear yard: a rear yard of not less than 50 feet and if adjacent
to a residential district of 100 feet.
      (2)   Exceptions: For special uses, minimum yards of greater depth may be
required as a condition for authorization.
   (D)   Maximum lot coverage. The total ground area occupied by any principal
building, together with all accessory buildings and impervious areas, shall not
exceed 50% of the total area of the lot.
   (E)   Maximum building height. No building or structure shall be erected or
structurally altered to exceed 45 in height, plus mechanical structures or
appurtenances as regulated in Article 2.
   (F)   Floor area ratio. The average overall gross density of development
permitted in the Business Park District shall not exceed a floor area ratio of
0.5.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.7-G DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   All of the property located in the Business Park District is subject to the
general standards and regulations of this code. Property located in this
district is also subject to the following.
   (A)   Operations within enclosed buildings. The operations and activities of
all users within this district, including the storage of materials, but
excluding off-street parking, shall be conducted within completely enclosed
structures.
   (B)   Design. Site and building design shall be in accordance with Article
9. All Business Park District developments which are not planned developments
shall be submitted to the Planning Director for review as to conformity with
the Comprehensive Plan and this code. The owner shall submit the same
documentation required for the planned developments as provided for in Article
17.
   (C)   Lighting. All exterior lighting, parking lot lights, exterior building
lights and landscape lighting shall be in accordance with the provisions of
Article 9.
   (D)   Landscaping/screening. All yards and open space between and about
buildings, structures, off-street parking and loading areas and areas along
exterior and interior streets within the district shall be landscaped and
screened in accordance with the provisions of Article 10.
   (E)   Underground utility systems/metering equipment. All on-site utility
lines, including power and telephone lines, shall be located underground. All
transformer and terminal equipment for metering the usage of water, natural
gas, electricity and the like shall be located underground or within buildings
or shall be effectively screened from view from roads, streets and adjacent
properties as required in Article 10.
   (F)   Parking/loading requirements. Off-street parking and loading spaces
shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Article 13.
   (G)   Signs. Signs shall conform to the applicable regulations as set forth
in Article 15.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.7-H PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   It is the purpose of this section to establish regulations and standards for
the installation and operation of office and research uses, based upon
consideration of any objectionable characteristics of such uses. Further, it is
the intent of this section to prescribe procedures and methods of measurement
of these characteristics subject to the performance standards established
hereunder. All uses permitted in the Business Park District, whether such use
is permitted as a principal use or as an accessory use, shall be subject to
these standards. Evidence of ability to comply shall be required prior to the
issuance of a building permit or a certificate of occupancy and continued
compliance shall be required during the operation of such uses and activities.
   (A)   Specific standards. In the Business Park District, the following
regulations shall apply.
      (1)   Noise.
         (a)   Permitted noise level. At no point on or beyond the boundary of
any lot which abuts a lot in the same zoning district shall the sound’s
pressure level resulting from any use or activity (except noises not directly
under the control of the property user, noises resulting from the construction
and maintenance of buildings and facilities including site preparation and the
noises of safety signals and warning devices) exceed the maximum permitted
decibel levels for the designated octave band as set forth in the table below.
Octave Bank Frequency in Cycles per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Pressure in
                                           Decibels
Octave Bank Frequency in Cycles per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Pressure in
                                           Decibels
0-74                                       67
75-149                                     59
150-299                                    52
300-599                                    46
600-1,199                                  40
1,200-2,399                                34
2,400-4,799                                32
4,800 and over                             32
 
         (b)   Measurement methods. Sound levels shall be measured with a sound
level meter and associated octave band filter and impact noise filter
manufactured according to standards prescribed by the American Standards
Association. Measurements shall be made using the flat network and “slow” meter
response of the sound level meter. Impulsive type noises shall be subject to
the performance standards herein prescribed; provided, that such noises are
capable of being accurately measured with such equipment. Noises capable of
being so measured, for the purpose of this code, shall be those noises which
cause rapid fluctuations of the needle of the sound level meter with a
variation of no more than plus or minus two decibels. Noises incapable of being
so measures, but objectionable, because of intermittence, beat, frequency or
shrillness shall be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
      (2)   Vibration.
         (a)   Definition. For the purpose of this division (A)(2), STEADY-
STATE VIBRATIONS are vibrations which are continuous or vibrations in discrete
pulses more frequent than 100 per minute. Discrete pulses which do not exceed
100 impulses per minute shall not cause displacement in excess of twice the
values established below.
         (b)   Permitted vibration displacements. At no point on or beyond the
boundary of any lot shall the ground-transmitted steady-state or impact
vibration cause by any use or activity (except those not directly under the
control of the property user) exceed the limits as established in the following
table for the Business Park District.
Steady-State Vibrations
Frequency in Cycles per Second Maximum Permitted Vibration Displacement in
                               Inches
Steady-State Vibrations
Frequency in Cycles per Second Maximum Permitted Vibration Displacement in
                               Inches
Less than 10                   0.0008
10 through 19                  0.0005
20 through 29                  0.0003
30 through 39                  0.0002
40 through 49                  0.0001
50 and over                    0.0001
 
      (3)   Smoke/particular matter.
         (a)   Emissions. The emission from all sources within any lot or
particulate matter containing more than 5% by weight of all particles having a
particle diameter larger than 44 microns is prohibited. Dust and other types of
air pollution borne by the wind from such sources as storage areas, yards and
roads within the boundaries of any lot shall be kept to a minimum by
appropriate landscaping, paving, watering, oiling or other acceptable means.
Emission of particulate matter from such sources in excess of the weight
limitations specified herein is prohibited. The emission of smoke or
particulate matter of a density equal to, or greater than, No. 2 on the
Ringelmann Chart is prohibited at all times, except as otherwise provided
therein. The rate of emission of particular matter from all sources within the
boundaries of any lot shall not exceed one pound per hour per acre.
         (b)   Measurement methods.
            1.   Smoke: For the purpose of grading the density of emission of
smoke, the Ringelmann Chart, published and used by the United States Bureau of
Mines, shall be employed.
            2.   Particulate matter: Determination of the total net rate of
emission of particulate matter within the boundaries of any lot shall be made
as follows: determine the maximum emission in pounds per hour from each source
of emission and divide this figure by the number of acres of lot area, thereby
obtaining the hourly rate of emission in pounds per acre. Add together the
individual rates of emission as derived above to obtain the total rate of
emission from all sources of emission within the boundaries of the lot. It is
this total that shall not exceed the rate of one pound per hour per acre.
      (4)   Odors. No continuous, frequent or repetitive emission of odors or
odor-causing substances which would be offensive at or beyond any property line
will be permitted. An odor emitted no more than 15 minutes in any one day and
on not more than two days in any calendar month shall not be deemed as
continuous, frequent or repetitive within the meaning of these regulations. The
existence of an odor shall be presumed when the concentration of the odor-
causing substance in the air at any one point at or beyond the property line of
the emitting industry exceeds the lowest concentration listed as the odor
threshold for such substances in Table III (Odor Thresholds) appearing in
Chapter 5 of the Air Pollution Abatement Manual, copyright 1952 by the
Manufacturing Chemists’ Association, or as subsequently amended. Substances not
cited in said Table shall be deemed odorous when analysis by a competent
technician demonstrates that a discernible odor is being emitted.
      (5)   Toxic/noxious matter. No emissions which would be demonstrably
injurious to human health, animals or plant life at or beyond the lot
boundaries of any Business Park District property will be permitted. Where
Business Park District use could produce such emissions as a result of accident
of equipment malfunction, adequate safeguards considered standard for safe
operation in the industry involved shall be taken.
      (6)   Radiation hazards. The handling of radioactive materials, the
discharge of such materials into the air and water and the disposal of
radioactive wastes shall be in conformance with the applicable regulations of
the Atomic Energy Commission and the state.
      (7)   Fire/explosion hazards.
         (a)   The storage and utilization of solid materials or products
ranging from free or active burning to intense burning is permitted, but only
if said materials or products are stored and utilized within completely
enclosed buildings having incombustible exterior walls and protected throughout
by an automatic fire extinguishing system. All activities involving the use
and/or storage and/or disposal of flammable or explosive material shall be
provided with adequate safety and protective devices against hazards of
firefighting and suppression equipment and devices standard to the industry
involved.
         (b)   The storage and utilization of pyrophoric and explosive powders
and dusts in excess of 1,000 pounds (except in original sealed containers or
storage of finished products in original sealed containers, which is not
restricted) at any one time is not permitted.
         (c)   The storage and utilization of flammable liquids or of materials
that produce flammable or explosive vapors or gases are permitted on any lot in
accordance with the following table.
 
Activities Involving Storage or Distribution
Total Permitted Quantities of Flammable Materials in Gallons
Closed Cup Flash Point in Degrees F Above Ground Below Ground
Greater than 187                    Prohibited   100,000
105 to 187                          Prohibited   40,000
Less than 105                       Prohibited   20,000
 
         (d)   When flammable gases are used, stored or manufactured and
measured in cubic feet, the quantity in cubic feet (at standard temperature and
pressure) permitted shall not exceed 300 times the quantities listed above.
      (8)   Glare/heat. Every use and activity shall be so operated that it
does not emit heat or heated air beyond the boundary of the lot on which it is
located. No direct or sky-reflected glare, whether from floodlights, from high
temperature processes such as combustion or welding, or otherwise, shall
emanate from any use or activity so as to be visible at any point on or beyond
the boundary of the lot on which such use or activity is located. This
restriction shall not apply to signs otherwise permitted by the provisions of
this code or other applicable ordinances, nor shall it apply to activities of a
temporary (such as the construction or maintenance of buildings and facilities)
or of an emergency nature. Night lighting necessary for safety and the
protection of property, such as at entrances or occupied outdoor parking or
storage areas, shall be excluded from this provision.
      (9)   Electromagnetic interference. There shall be no electromagnetic
interference that adversely affects at any point the operation of any equipment
other than that belonging to the creator of such interference, or that is not
in conformance with the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission.
      (10)   Materials/equipment storage. All storage of materials and
equipment used in conjunction with permitted or special uses must be under
enclosure and shielded from public view.
      (11)   Enforcement. Where, in the opinion of the Planning Director, there
is a probable violation of any provision of this article, he or she is
empowered to have a qualified technician perform such investigations,
measurements and analyses as may be necessary to determine whether or not there
is in fact a violation of this article.
   (B)   Applications. All information and evidence submitted in applications
to indicate conformity with the performance standards set forth herein shall
constitute a certification and an agreement on the part of the applicant that
the proposed use can and will conform to such standards at all times.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
ARTICLE 3.8. COMMUNITY RETAIL DISTRICT
§ 3.8-A PREAMBLE.
   (A)   A Community Retail District has been established to accommodate
development of property for a wide range of uses. This district will provide a
harmonious mix of retail, service, office and employment uses. The primary
focus of this district will be on local, community and possibly regional level
commercial uses that attract users from a variety of locales.
   (B)   The designated location for this district in the Comprehensive Plan
provides direct access to major arterials and the Tollway and proximity to
residential districts. The Community Retail Zoning District is not intended to
accommodate typical retail development patterns, such as strip commercial or
big box retailers with huge parking lots and fragmented uses. This district is
intended to incorporate major landscape areas, pedestrian amenities and
internal access connections. These areas would not only break up the larger
parking areas, but they would also provide natural resource protection.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.8-B PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the Community Retail District:
   (A)   Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services;
   (B)   Antique shops;
   (C)   Art galleries;
   (D)   Art and school supply stores;
   (E)   Artists’ studios;
   (F)   Bakeries;
   (G)   Barber shops;
   (H)   Bath supply or accessory stores;
   (I)   Beauty shops;
   (J)   Bicycle stores: sales, rental and repair;
   (K)   Book and stationery stores;
   (L)   Cabinet sales establishments (not including cutting, assembling or
manufacturing on premises);
   (M)   Camera and photography supply stores;
   (N)   Candy and confectionery stores;
   (O)   Carpet, rug and floor covering stores, but not including carpet and
rug cleaning;
   (P)   Catalog sales (mail order with retail showroom);
   (Q)   Childcare schools and centers;
   (R)   China, glassware and metalware stores;
   (S)   Clock stores;
   (T)   Closet furnishing and accessory stores;
   (U)   Coin, stamp, precious metal or similar shops;
   (V)   Computer equipment and supplies stores;
   (W)   Craft supply stores;
   (X)   Delicatessens;
   (Y)   Department stores;
   (Z)   Drapery, curtain and window covering shops;
   (AA)   Drug stores and pharmacies;
   (BB)   Dry goods store;
   (CC)   Fabric and yarn stores;
   (DD)   Florist shops and plant stores, retail sales only;
   (EE)   Food stores and grocery stores;
   (FF)   Furniture stores, including upholstery and repair when conducted as
part of the retail operation and secondary to the principal use;
   (GG)   Furriers and fur apparel stores;
   (HH)   Garden supply shops;
   (II)   Gift shops;
   (JJ)   Glass and mirror shops;
   (KK)   Healthcare facilities;
   (LL)   Hardware stores, retail sales only;
   (MM)   Hobby shops;
   (NN)   Household appliance stores, including repair when conducted as part
of the retail operation and secondary to the principal use;
   (OO)   Ice cream and yogurt stores, but not including those operations which
sell a wide variety of other non-ice cream or yogurt menu items;
   (PP)   Interior decorating (with retail inventory on display);
   (QQ)   Jewelry stores;
   (RR)   Leather goods and luggage stores;
   (SS)   Liquor stores;
   (TT)   Luggage and suitcase stores;
   (UU)   Magazine and newspaper stores;
   (VV)   Meat and fish stores, retail sale only;
   (WW)   Medical appliance and supply stores;
   (XX)   Musical instruments, sales and repair;
   (YY)   Newspaper and magazine stores;
   (ZZ)   Office supply stores;
    (AAA)      Optician sales, retail sales only;
    (BBB)      Paint, glass and wall covering stores;
    (CCC)   Pet shops;
    (DDD)   Phonograph record, tape, compact disc and sheet music stores;
    (EEE)      Picture framing, including self-service, when conducted for on-
premises retail trade;
    (FFF)   Pool and patio stores (indoor only);
    (GGG)   Radio and television sales;
    (HHH)   Radio and television service and repair shops;
   (III)   Real estate offices;
   (JJJ)   Secretarial services;
    (KKK)   Security and commodity brokers;
    (LLL)   Shoe, clothing and hat repair shops;
   (MMM) Shoe stores;
    (NNN)   Sporting goods and sportswear stores;
    (OOO)   Tailor and dressmaking shops, employing not more than five persons;
     (PPP)   Tobacco shops;
    (QQQ)   Toy stores;
    (RRR)   Travel agencies and transportation ticket offices;
   (SSS)   Variety stores;
    (TTT)   Video tape and disk sales and rental; and
   (UUU)   Wearing apparel stores.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.8-C SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may only be permitted in the Community Retail
District if a special use permit is issued subject to the provisions of Article
16.
   (A)   Retail/business uses:
      (1)   Automobile accessory and parts shops, including servicing and
installation of products;
      (2)   Blueprinting and photocopying establishments;
      (3)   Business and professional offices;
      (4)   Business machine repair and service;
      (5)   Dry-cleaning and laundry establishments, including self-service,
coin-operated equipment; provided, that the floor area devoted to any one such
establishment (including floor area devoted to accessory use as well as the
principal use) shall not exceed 2,000 square feet;
      (6)   Food catering establishments;
      (7)   Insurance agencies;
      (8)   Interior decorating shops, including upholstery and making of
draperies, slip covers and other similar articles, when conducted as part of
retail operations and secondary to the principal use;
      (9)   Medical and/or dental facilities;
      (10)   Medical and/or dental laboratories;
      (11)   Photographic studios; and
      (12)   Restaurants with or without liquor.
   (B)   Service uses:
      (1)   Automobile service stations; and
      (2)   Banks, savings and loan associations and other financial
institutions, with or without drive-in facilities.
   (C)   Recreation/social facilities:
      (1)   Clubs and lodges, private and not-for-profit;
      (2)   Theaters, indoor only, including live entertainment;
      (3)   Health centers, including physical exercise and sport training
schools; and
      (4)   Performing arts centers, cultural centers and entertainment
facilities.
   (D)   Public utility/service uses;
   (E)   Public/government land and buildings:
      (1)   Historical buildings and landmarks preserved for public inspection
and operated not-for-profit;
      (2)   Museums, operated not-for-profit;
      (3)   Post offices; and
      (4)   Public parks, plazas, arcades and recreational facilities.
   (F)   Planned developments.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.8-D TEMPORARY USES.
   Temporary uses, buildings and structures may be allowed, subject to the
issuance of a temporary use permit in accordance with the provisions of Article
6.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.8-E ACCESSORY USES.
   In the Community Retail District, accessory uses, buildings and structures
as regulated by this code may include the following, as well as uses and
structures similar to the following:
   (A)   Garages and other parking facilities;
   (B)   Signs, as regulated by this code; and
   (C)   Fences, as regulated by this code.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 3.8-F BULK REGULATIONS.
   In the Community Retail District, uses and structures shall conform to the
following bulk regulations.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. A minimum lot area of two acres is required for each
permitted use.
   (B)   Minimum lot width.
      (1)   For each permitted use, there shall be provided a minimum lot width
of 200 feet.
      (2)   For special uses, minimum lot widths greater than 200 feet are
required as a condition for authorization.
   (C)   Minimum yards.
      (1)   The following minimum yards measured from the property line shall
be provided and maintained:
         (a)   Front yard: a front yard of not less than 50 feet;
         (b)   Side yard: a side yard on each side of the principal building of
not less than 20 feet and if adjacent to a residential district of 50 feet. A
corner side yard along a collector or arterial street of not less than 50 feet;
and
         (c)   Rear yard: a rear yard of not less than 50 feet.
      (2)   Exceptions: For special uses, minimum yards of greater depth may be
required as a condition for authorization.
   (D)   Maximum lot coverage. The total ground area occupied by any principal
building, together with all accessory buildings and impervious areas, shall not
exceed 50% of the total area of the lot.
   (E)   Maximum building height. No building or structure shall be erected or
structurally altered to exceed 35 in height, plus mechanical structures or
appurtenances as regulated in Article 2.
   (F)   Floor area ratio. The average overall gross density of development
permitted in the Community Retail District shall not exceed a floor area ratio
of 0.5.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
ARTICLE 4. PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
§ 4-A PREAMBLE.
   (A)   The intent of this article is to permit and encourage creative,
imaginative and desirable approaches to development in locations meeting
certain minimum area requirements within each zoning district reducing
restrictions of conventional zoning regulations.
   (B)   Through planned developments, the village recognizes the unique,
special or unusual impact development proposals of a greater magnitude may have
upon the use and enjoyment of neighboring property. To provide assurance to
property owners of successful completion of the planned development process,
the village states that it will approve planned developments with land uses
designated as special uses in this code in each zoning district which are in
compliance with applicable restrictions and limitations contained in the
Comprehensive Plan and this code.
   (C)   Each zoning district includes planned developments as a special use.
By allowing a greater flexibility of project design, the planned development
process seeks to further enhance the unique character of the village in
accordance with the village’s goals as set forth in the Comprehensive Plan and
this code. The flexibility permitted by these regulations should be utilized as
a means to achieve a modem, safe, efficient, visually appealing and
environmentally sensitive community, not simply as a means to attract
development. Freedom from constraints of the bulk regulations of the underlying
zoning district and the ability to combine compatible uses in a single
development proposal are intended to encourage developers to use the planned
development approach.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 4-B GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   To facilitate advantageous development of large tracts of land, the Village
Board may by ordinance approve planned developments covering tracts of land of
the sizes specified for planned developments in each zoning district as
specified in Article 3. In approving such planned developments, the Village
Board may impose additional restrictions and conditions particularly applicable
to such development and may vary the general provisions, regulations and
standards of this article and this code and may modify or vary any or all of
the zoning district regulations which would otherwise be applicable. Upon
approval of a planned development, the entire site area included therein shall
be so indicated on the village’s zoning map as a planned development.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 4-C PROCEDURE.
   A planned development may be approved and authorized by ordinance as a
special use in all zoning districts and in accordance with the standards and
procedures of this code. See Article 16.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 4-D STANDARDS FOR ALL PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   All planned developments shall comply with the following regulations.
   (A)   Comprehensive Plan. A planned development must conform with the intent
and spirit of the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Site size. The site of the planned development must be not less than
five acres in area.
   (C)   Location. The planned development is authorized as a special use in
each of the zoning districts as provided for in this code.
   (D)   Ownership. The entire tract or parcel of land to be approved as a
planned development shall be held in a single ownership or, if there are two or
more owners, the application for such planned development shall be filed
jointly by all such owners. For the purposes of this article, the entire land
area, parcel or site included in the application for a planned development
shall be deemed a single lot. If a development proposal includes detached and/
or attached dwellings, the owner may subdivide the lot into separate lots for
future ownership purposes, subject to the requirements of this code.
   (E)   Compatibility. The uses permitted in a planned development must be of
a type and so located so as to exercise no undue detrimental influence upon
surrounding properties.
   (F)   Public services. The proposed development shall not impose an undue
burden on public services and facilities, such as fire and police protection.
   (G)   Water and sewers. Public water and sewer facilities shall be provided.
   (H)   Stormwater management. The proposed site shall be provided with
adequate stormwater management facilities.
   (I)   Accessibility. The proposed site shall be accessible from public or
private roads that are adequate to carry the traffic that will be imposed upon
them by the proposed development.
   (J)   Streets and driveways. The streets and driveways on the site of the
proposed development shall be adequate to serve the residents or users of the
proposed development and shall meet the minimum standards of all applicable
ordinances of the village unless otherwise determined by the Village Board.
   (K)   Parking requirements. Adequate parking shall be provided, and in no
event shall the parking be less than that provided for in other sections of
this code.
   (L)   Height. A height limit shall be as required in the underlying
district, except in those circumstances when an owner can demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Plan Commission and the corporate authorities that either
unique topographical or landscape elements exist or other compensating
amenities are proposed which justify increased structure height.
   (M)   Floor area ratio. The floor area ratio in a planned development shall
not exceed the floor area ratio in the underlying zoning district regulations.
   (N)   Setbacks. A building and parking setback at least 50 feet in depth
shall be provided along the entire perimeter of the planned development except
where scenic easements designated along major roads require greater setbacks.
   (O)   Open space. Where a planned development includes provision for open
space, such open space shall never be used for the construction of any building
or structure. Adequate safeguards, including covenants, shall be provided to
prevent the subsequent development of such open space and to prevent the future
construction of buildings and structures on such open space. Adequate provision
shall be made for the care and maintenance of such open space.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 4-E STANDARDS FOR ALL RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   Any planned development for which residential uses are proposed shall comply
with the following regulations. The total number of dwelling units in a planned
development shall not exceed the number of dwelling units that would be
permitted for the proposed use under the density limitations contained in the
underlying zoning district regulations, taking into account transfer
development rights where applicable.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 4-F “CLUSTER” RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   Cluster residential developments organize homes closer together to emphasize
neighborhood settings, provide large common open areas, promote efficient use
of land and lower development costs by minimizing needed infrastructure. A
developer’s proposed use of the common open space in a cluster development that
includes uses other than residential will be reviewed by the Planning Director
in regard to land area calculations for overall density. For cluster design
guidelines, see Article 9, and for parking requirements, see Article 13. The
following are cluster residential regulations.
   (A)   Uses. Permitted uses, special uses, temporary uses, accessory uses,
density and district standards are as established by the underlying zoning
district.
   (B)   Locations. Cluster residential planned developments are permitted as
special uses in the RR, R-1, R-2 and R-3 Zoning Districts.
   (C)   Bulk recommendations. Cluster residential planned developments shall
generally conform to the following recommendations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area.
         (a)   For every single-family detached dwelling, there shall be a
minimum lot area of not less than 5,000 square feet.
         (b)   For every single-family attached dwelling, there shall be
provided a lot of not less than 6,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width.
         (a)   For every lot used for a single-family detached dwelling, there
shall be provided a minimum lot width of 55 feet.
         (b)   For every lot used for a single-family attached dwelling, there
shall be provided a minimum lot width of 70 feet.
         (c)   No more than two units single-family attached dwellings can be
developed on a single lot.
      (3)   Minimum yards. The following minimum yards shall be provided and
maintained:
         (a)   Front yard: a front yard of not less than 25 feet;
         (b)   Interior side yard; single-family detached lots: a side yard on
either side of the principal building of not less than five feet and a combined
total of side yards of not less than 12 feet;
         (c)   Interior side yard; single-family attached lots: a side yard on
either side of the principal building of not less than eight feet and a
combined total of side yards of not less than 20 feet;
         (d)   Corner side yard: a side yard along the street side of not less
than 25 feet;
         (e)   Reversed corner side yard: a side yard along the street side of
no less than 25 feet or an area equal in depth to the required front yard of
the lot to the rear; and
         (f)   Rear yard: a rear yard of not less than 15 feet.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage. The total ground area occupied by any
principal building, together with all accessory buildings and paved areas,
shall not exceed 60% of the total area of the lot.
      (5)   Maximum site coverage. The buildable lot area within the total
development site upon which homes will be concentrated or clustered shall not
be larger than 50% of the overall site.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1186.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 4-G “SMALL TOWN” RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Small town residential design allows homes organized on small lots
within a grid pattern of streets oriented toward pedestrian activity centers.
Such design is intended to establish more pedestrian-oriented communities,
focused on local parks, schools, as well as adjacent Special Retail Districts
or the Village Center.
   (B)   For small town traditional design guidelines, see Article 9, and for
parking requirements, see Article 13. The following are small town traditional
regulations.
      (1)   Uses. Permitted uses, special uses, temporary uses, accessory uses,
density and district standards are as established in the underlying zoning
district.
      (2)   Locations. Small town residential planned developments permitted as
special uses in the RR, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-8, Village Center and Special Retail
Districts.
      (3)   Bulk recommendations. Small town residential planned developments
shall generally conform to the following bulk recommendations.
         (a)   Minimum lot area.
            1.   For every single-family detached dwelling, there shall be a
minimum lot area of 4,000 square feet.
            2.   For every single-family attached dwelling, there shall be a
minimum lot area of 1,800 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width.
            1.   For every single-family detached dwelling, there shall be a
minimum lot width of 40 feet.
            2.   For every single-family attached dwelling, there shall be a
minimum lot width of 18 feet.
         (c)   Minimum yards. The following minimum yards shall be provided and
maintained:
            1.   Front yard: a front yard of not less than 15 feet;
            2.   Interior side yard; single-family detached lots: a side yard
on either side of the principal building of not less than five feet and a
combined total side yards of not less than 12 feet;
            3.   Interior side yard; single-family attached lots: there shall
be no minimum side yard on either side of the principal building;
            4.   Corner side yard: a side yard along the street side of not
less than ten feet;
            5.   Reversed corner side yard: a side yard along the street side
of no less than ten feet or an area equal in depth to the required front yard
of the lot to the rear; and
            6.   Rear yard: a rear yard of not less than 45 feet.
         (d)   Maximum lot coverage. The total ground area occupied by any
principal building, together with all accessory buildings and gravel and paved
areas, shall not exceed 70% of the total area of the lot.
         (e)   Site coverage. The buildable lot area within the total
development site upon which homes will be concentrated or clustered shall not
be larger than 50% of the overall site.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1188.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 4-H MIXED USES.
   Where a planned development is permitted by the Village Board to contain a
mixture of land uses, the development plan shall designate separate areas for
the proposed uses and shall be in accordance with all the requirements of this
article.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 4-I RESTRICTIONS AND CONDITIONS.
   The Village Board may impose only such other restrictions and conditions
upon the planned development which are in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this code and the Comprehensive Plan of the village.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 4-J FORM OF ORDINANCE.
   Any ordinance approving a planned development shall specify with
particularity any special conditions and restrictions imposed by the Village
Board on the planned development and shall specify the extent to which the
zoning district regulations or this code’s requirements which would otherwise
have been applicable have been varied or modified.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 5. NONCONFORMING USES
§ 5-A PREAMBLE.
   (A)   This code establishes separate districts, each of which is an
appropriate area for the location of the uses which are permitted in that
district within such districts, however, there exist lots, structures, uses of
land and structures and characteristics of uses which were lawful before this
code was passed or amended, but which are prohibited, regulated or restricted
under the terms of this code or future amendments hereto.
   (B)   Recognizing both the legitimate interest of those who lawfully
established such a nonconformity and the need to protect the public health,
safety, comfort and general welfare, the provisions of this article are
intended to provide for the regulation of nonconformities within the following
requirements.
      (1)   It is the intent of this article to permit most nonconformities to
continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival.
      (2)   It is the intent of this article that nonconformities shall not be
enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other
structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
      (3)   It is recognized and declared that those nonconformities which
substantially and adversely affect the orderly development, maintenance, use
and taxable value of other property in the district (property that is itself
subject to the regulations of this code) should eventually be eliminated.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 5-B CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES/USES.
   (A)   Any nonconforming structure or principal use which exists lawfully at
the time of the adoption of this code and which remains nonconforming or which
shall become nonconforming upon the adoption of this code or any subsequent
amendment thereto, may be continued only in accordance with the provisions of
this article.
   (B)   Any use of the property other than the principal use shall be brought
into conformity immediately unless otherwise provided for in this code.
      (1)   Nonconforming structures. No nonconforming structure shall be:
         (a)   Structurally altered;
         (b)   Added to or enlarged in any manner;
         (c)   Moved or relocated, in whole or in pan; or
         (d)   Restored or reconstructed if damaged or destroyed if the cost of
reconstruction or restoration will exceed 50% of the replacement cost of the
entire structure at that time.
      (2)   Nonconforming land use. No nonconforming use of land shall be:
         (a)   Renewed if abandoned for a period of six consecutive months;
         (b)   Expanded or extended beyond the area it occupied on the
effective date of this code; or
         (c)   Changed, except if such change will make the use conforming.
      (3)   Nonconforming building use. No nonconforming use of a building or
structure shall be:
         (a)   Renewed if abandoned for a continuous period of one year;
         (b)   Expanded or extended into any part of a building or structure
not occupied by such use on the effective date of this code; or
         (c)   Changed, except if such change will make the use conforming.
      (4)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Structural alterations or repairs of a nonconforming building
required by or to conform with the law and this code shall be permitted.
         (b)   No nonconforming structure located in a residential district
shall be structurally altered or enlarged in such a manner that would further
increase the nonconformity. However, enlargements or structural alterations may
be permitted providing there is no increase in the existing encroachments.
         (c)   In the RR District, a nonconforming structure may be
structurally altered if such structural alteration does not result in the
enlargement of the exterior dimensions of the structure.
         (d)   Structural alterations, additions, enlargements and restoration
in excess of 50% of value at the time of such action may be made to
nonconforming buildings upon the approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals,
provided that:
            1.   Such nonconforming building is located in a residential
district and is occupied by permitted or special use;
            2.   The proposed alteration, addition, enlargements or
reconstruction does not adversely affect the value, use and enjoyment of
surrounding property; and
            3.   In the case of restoration in excess of 50% of value, the
reconstruction shall be upon the original foundation which must still be usable
for such purposes.
         (e)   Provided that the result is to change the status of a structure
or use from nonconforming to conforming, such a structure or use may be:
            1.   Structurally altered;
            2.   Added to or enlarged;
            3.   Moved or relocated, in whole or in part;
            4.   Expanded or extended;
            5.   Changed; or
            6.   Restored or reconstructed.
         (f)   When the cost of reconstruction or restoring a damaged,
nonconforming structure is less than 50% of the replacement cost of the entire
structure, it may be restored or reconstructed if initiated within one year of
partial destruction and diligently pursued to completion.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 5-C NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   Nonconforming lots of record as herein defined may be used in accordance
with the following.
   (A)   Separate ownership. A nonconforming lot of record owned separately and
individually from all adjoining tracts of land shall be subject to the
following provisions.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   In residential districts, a nonconforming lot of record may be
used for a single-family dwelling and accessory use.
         (b)   In a nonresidential district, a nonconforming lot of record may
be used for any permitted, special, accessory or temporary use allowed in the
district in which it is located.
      (2)   Zoning requirements.
         (a)   All zoning requirements other than those which make the lot of
record nonconforming shall apply.
         (b)   Undeveloped, nonconforming lots of record in all zoning
districts shall provide and maintain all setbacks as required for that
particular zoning district. Further required is that all corner yards must be
maintained according to the setbacks required for that particular zoning
district.
   (B)   Unified control.
      (1)   Where two or more lots of record or combination of lots and
portions of lots of record with continuous frontage are developed as a single
zoning lot under unified control, are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this code and where all or part of the lots do not meet the
requirements established for lot widths and area, the lands involved shall be
considered to be a single zoning lot for the purpose of this code. No portion
of said zoning lot shall be used or sold which would diminish compliance with
lot width and area requirements established by this code.
      (2)   Lots or parts of lot resulting from the conveyance or any other
transfer of interest of a portion of such zoning lots held in unified control
shall not be entitled to zoning certificates or building permits as provided
elsewhere in this code.
      (3)   The use and zoning requirements of these lots shall be the same as
those specified in this code.
   (C)   Construction, repair and alteration.
      (1)   Construction of new buildings or repair of existing buildings that
are being used for permitted uses but are located on nonconforming lots of
record shall be permitted.
      (2)   If any building is damaged or destroyed, it may be rebuilt for its
original permitted use to the extent of its original development, or a new
building may be constructed for any use to the extent permitted in this code.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 5-D CHANGE TO A CONFORMING USES OR STRUCTURE.
   Whenever a nonconforming use or a nonconforming structure is changed so as
to conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located, such
structure or premises shall not thereafter be used, occupied or altered so as
to become nonconforming.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 5-E CONVERSION TO A SPECIAL USE.
   Any nonconforming building, structure or use may be converted to a special
use pursuant to the appropriate procedure set forth in Article 16. This
conversion may occur only when it is shown that the nonconforming building,
structure or use is providing a service to the area, and that the building,
structure or use is not substantially detrimental to the surrounding
properties.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 5-F ELIMINATION OF NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Nonconforming signs. Nonconforming signs shall be removed, altered or
converted to conforming signs as provided in Article 15.
   (B)   Nonconforming use of land. A nonconforming use of land on which there
is no building or structure shall be made to conform to the provisions of this
code within a period of two years after the adoption of this code.
   (C)   Nonconforming wireless telecommunications facilities. Any
nonconforming personal wireless telecommunication facility shall be eliminated
within 20 years of the date of its first construction.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2008-0-3, passed 1-11-2008)
ARTICLE 6. TEMPORARY/ACCESSORY USES
§ 6-A PREAMBLE.
   The provisions of this article are based on the recognition that there are
uses and structures which either cannot be permitted in any particular district
on a permanent basis but which may be desirable for a temporary period, or
which may be necessary or incidental to a principal use or structure. The
temporary and accessory uses and structures permitted by this article shall be
so established and maintained as to least interfere with the use and enjoyment
of neighboring uses and structures and to ensure public safety and convenience.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 6-B TEMPORARY USES/STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Permit required. A temporary use permit shall be required prior to the
establishment of any temporary use or structure. Compliance with the standards
and the purposes of this code and with all other applicable village ordinances
shall be a prerequisite for the continued validity of all temporary use
permits.
   (B)   Procedure. Application for a temporary use permit shall be made to the
Planning Director and shall be granted upon full compliance with the standards
set forth in this code. The Planning Director in order to determine whether or
not the applicant will meet the standards set forth in this code, may require
the applicant to submit any or all of the following information:
      (1)   A survey or legal description of the property to be used, rented or
leased for the temporary use, including all information necessary to accurately
locate and portray the property;
      (2)   A written description and/or drawing of the proposed temporary use
or structure;
      (3)   Sufficient information to determine the yard requirements, sanitary
facilities and availability of parking space to adequately service the proposed
temporary use or structure; and
      (4)   Such other data and certification as may reasonably be required by
the Planning Director to reach a determination that the proposed temporary use
or structure will comply with this code.
   (C)   Uses and structures. Temporary uses and structures which may be
allowed pursuant to this article shall include, but are not limited to, the
following.
      (1)   Carnival or circus. A temporary use permit shall be required for a
carnival or circus. This permit shall be for a period not to exceed five days.
No permit shall be issued for any site used for residential purposes.
      (2)   Christmas tree sales. On sites located only in the Special Retail
Districts and Village Center District. A temporary use permit shall be required
for the display and open-lot sales of Christmas trees which permit shall be for
a period not to exceed 35 days.
      (3)   Contractor’s office and equipment sheds. In any district, a
temporary use permit shall be required for a contractor’s temporary office and
equipment sheds incidental and necessary to construction in the village. The
permit shall be valid for a six-month period and renewable for four successive
periods at the same location. However, the office, shed or storage area shall
be removed within 30 days of completion of the construction project.
      (4)   Home and garage sales. In any residential district, a temporary use
permit shall be required for a home or garage sale. The sale must be incidental
to the use of the property for residential purposes and must be conducted in
such a manner as to be compatible with the residential character of the
neighborhood. Each permit shall be valid for a period of not more than two
days. Not more than two permits for a home or garage sale shall be issued for
the same zoning lot in one calendar year, January 1 to December 31.
      (5)   Real estate sales office and model units. In any district, a
temporary use permit shall be required for a temporary real estate sales office
and model homes, or either, in any development which has been approved in
accordance with this code. The temporary permit for a real estate sales office
and model homes or either shall be valid for not more than one year, but is
renewable. The office shall be removed and the model homes shall be closed
within 30 days after the sale of the last unit of the development All
activities conducted within either the temporary office or model homes shall be
directly related to the construction and sales of properties with the
particular development or within the village. The temporary office and model
homes, or either, shall not be used for the general office operation of any
firm.
      (6)   Block parties. In any district, a temporary use permit shall be
required for a block party, street dance or similar public gathering involving
the closing of a public street or streets or use of public ways for parking.
Major or secondary thoroughfares shall not be blocked, and such activities
shall be conducted within all applicable village regulations. Each permit shall
be issued for a period not to exceed two days.
      (7)   Temporary outdoor sales. In any Special Retail District, a
temporary use permit shall be required for sidewalk sales, rummage sales,
bazaars and similar outdoor sales. Such activities shall be conducted within
all applicable village regulations. There shall be no more than 16 such permits
issued for any zoning lot within a calendar year from January 1 to December 31.
Each permit shall be valid for a period not to exceed two days.
   (D)   Conditions for approval. In addition to the specific regulations and
time limits set forth above, temporary uses and structures shall be subject to
such conditions and restrictions, including, but not limited to, adequate
provisions for insurance on their location and operation as deemed necessary
for the protection of the public interest by the Planning Director. Such
conditions and restrictions shall be fully set forth at the time of the
issuance of the permit for the temporary use.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 6-C ACCESSORY USES/STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Standards. Accessory uses are permitted in any zoning district in
connection with any use which is permitted within such district. An accessory
use is a building, structure or use which:
      (1)   Is customarily incidental and subordinate to and serves a principal
use;
      (2)   Is subordinate in area, extent and purpose to the principal
building or principal use served;
      (3)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants
in the principal building or principal use served; and
      (4)   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use served.
   (B)   Time of establishment. An accessory use shall not be established on
any lot prior to the establishment of the principal use to which it is
accessory.
   (C)   Attached accessory structure. An attached accessory structure,
including all attached accessory dwellings, shall comply with all district
regulations applicable to the principal structure. Attached accessory dwelling
units are allowed only on lots on which the principal use is residential. In
such cases, one single-family residence is permitted in addition to the
principal residence, provided it is occupied by no more than one family related
by blood, marriage or adoption to the occupants of the principal dwelling. In
no case shall the existence of an accessory dwelling be used as a basis for
future rezoning to a higher-density residential district. Accessory dwellings
shall contain not more than one bedroom and not more than 1,000 square feet of
floor area.
   (D)   Detached accessory structures. Detached accessory structures:
      (1)   Shall not be located in front yards and if located in side yards
shall be located to the rear of the principal building on the lot;
      (2)   Shall not occupy more than 30% of the required rear yard;
      (3)   Shall be at least ten feet from the principal structure;
      (4)   Shall not exceed the height of the principal structure or 20 feet
in height to the top of its roofline, measured from the grade level of the
principal structure, whichever is less, except that an accessory antenna shall
not exceed 60 feet measured from the grade level of the principal structure;
      (5)   Shall be located in relation to lot lines as provided for in the
applicable district regulations, except that, irrespective of the foregoing,
raised decks, swimming pools and their accessory structures and tennis courts
shall be located no closer than eight feet from any lot line; and
      (6)   If any property line in the Special Retail or Village Center
Districts abuts a residential area, an accessory structure shall not be located
within 25 feet of said property line.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 6-D CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Intent. It is the village’s intent that all construction activity be
organized and maintained in such a way as to minimize negative impacts on the
natural environment, adjacent properties and adjacent roads. It is also the
intent of the village to:
      (1)   Maintain an attractive, nuisance-free environment;
      (2)   Minimize disruption of utility, sewer, water and road systems; and
      (3)   Avoid any unnecessary duplication of utility construction.
   (B)   Pre-construction conference. Prior to starting construction of any
major development project, a pre-construction conference shall be conducted by
the project developer, builder or owner. The developer, builder or owner shall
arrange for representatives of the general contractor, the village and utility
agencies to attend the conference. The conference shall address the
contractor’s methodology for maintaining and protecting the site during
construction and for coordinating construction with all appropriate public
agencies.
   (C)   Erosion control.
      (1)   As more fully set forth in Article 8, wind and water erosion of the
site and adjacent properties shall be minimized and areas vulnerable to such
erosion shall be protected. Each construction site shall clear vegetation from
the smallest possible area and only from those areas needed for actual
construction of buildings, paved areas and landscape areas.
      (2)   Temporary ditches, dikes, vegetation and mulching shall be used to
protect highly erodible exposed areas. Sediment basins shall be installed and
maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters.
      (3)   Permanent landscaping shall be installed as soon as practical in
all areas that have been cleared or disturbed.
   (D)   Temporary yards.
      (1)   All construction, storage and equipment yards shall be fenced for
security with a chain-link fence which is visually screened from adjacent
arterial roads and properties. No lettering or signage of any type shall be
allowed on such a fence except for signs on fence gates regulating the use of
the yard. Such yards shall be located away from views from adjacent roads,
streets and properties.
      (2)   Construction sites shall be maintained in a neat and orderly
manner. All trash shall be kept in enclosed containers and emptied frequently.
All stockpiled materials shall be secured to prevent wind removal, with
stockpile areas kept at a minimum size to avoid impacts on views and the
natural environment. After construction is completed, the temporary barriers,
surplus materials and all trash, debris and rubbish will be removed from the
site. Building materials and rubbish shall be removed from all soil used for
backfill.
      (3)   Stockpiling of dirt in large piles for excessive periods of time,
as determined by the Planning Director in highly visible locations is
prohibited.
   (E)   Truck/equipment access.
      (1)   Access to each construction site is to be limited to one location.
Mud, dirt or other debris deposited on all finished roads and streets within
the site or adjacent to the site shall be washed or removed daily to avoid
compaction and damage to road/street surfaces and to minimize impacts on
drainage systems. Wheel wash-down areas for equipment shall be provided near
the site access point with appropriate sedimentation basins.
      (2)   No construction equipment shall be parked on finished roads or
streets within the site or adjacent to the site. If possible, no construction
trucks shall be parked on finished roads or streets adjacent to the site. The
developer, builder or owner shall place a construction security deposit in
escrow with the village at the commencement of the construction phase. This
security deposit will be reserved exclusively for the use of the village for
cleanup or repair if roads and streets are not frequently maintained in an
orderly and neat appearance.
   (F)   Construction signs. All construction signs shall conform to the
regulations contained in Article 15 and shall be approved by the village prior
to installation. Traffic barricades shall not incorporate any signage.
   (G)   Utilities.
      (1)   All temporary utilities serving a construction site or utilities
temporarily re-routed during construction shall be contained in a single,
compact unobtrusive alignment away from roads, street and adjacent properties
where possible. All permanent utilities will be underground. The developer,
builder or owner is responsible for knowing their location, coordinating all
utility connections and for protecting them during construction.
      (2)   At the end of each construction phase, the developer, builder or
owner shall submit to the village reproducible copies of record drawings (as-
builts) showing the actual locations of all underground utility and irrigation
systems.
   (H)   Temporary structures. All temporary construction structures including
contractors’ trailers shall conform to Article 6 and shall be located in a
compact and organized manner within or immediately adjacent defined
construction yards and shall be maintained in good repair. Such structures
shall be located away from views from adjacent roads, streets and properties.
Upon completion of construction, the developer shall submit a notice of
construction completion to the Planning Director. All temporary structures are
to be removed within 30 days from notice of construction completion.
   (I)   Tree protection. All existing trees to be preserved shall be carefully
protected from damage by equipment or other impacts as required in Article 10.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 7. PARK/SCHOOL STANDARDS
§ 7-A PARKS/RECREATION.
   As part of each residential development, the developer shall provide the
land and build the parks that are required by the village’s park requirements.
The design of the parks provided shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning
Director and Plan Commission. Parks shall be designed to meet the following
requirements and standards.
   (A)   Park requirements. The following are the village’s park requirements
for each residential development within the RR, R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-
8 Districts.
      (1)   Community parks.
         (a)   Size: 25 or more acres; and
         (b)   Acreage/population ratio: five acres per 1,000 population.
      (2)   Neighborhood parks.
         (a)   Size: three to six acres; and
         (b)   Acreage population ratio: two and one-half acres per 1,000
population.
      (3)   Pocket parks.
         (a)   Size: less than three acres; and
         (b)   Acreage/population ratio: one and one-half acres per 1,000
population.
      (4)   Population density.
         (a)   Each developer shall include in the project development report
an estimate of population to be generated from all residential subdivisions or
planned developments proposed. For purposes of calculating the estimated number
of children to be generated from a residential subdivision or planned
development, the table of estimated population contained in § 7-B shall be
used. That table is generally indicative of current projected trends in family
size for new construction. In the event a developer files a written objection
to the table with the Planning Director, he or she shall submit a demographic
study showing the estimated population to be generated from the development.
The final determination of the density formula to be used shall be made by the
Village Board. It is recognized that population density, age distribution and
local conditions change over the years, and the specific formula for the
dedication of land or the payment of fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is
subject to periodic review and amendment if necessary.
         (b)   All buildings, structures and recreational facilities built as
part of any park shall conform to the design guidelines established by the
village. All parks shall be easily accessible to the surrounding residential
neighborhood in regard to location, paths and visibility.
   (B)   Community park standards.
      (1)   Service area/location. A one- to two-mile service radius (travel
time: 20-minute walk) which serves several neighborhoods. All community parks
shall be established adjacent to or in close proximity to schools, to allow for
shared use of school athletic fields and indoor recreation facilities and to
establish a synergistic relationship between school and community recreational
activities. All community parks shall also be sited where possible near
conservation areas. See the community facilities plan for general community
park locations.
      (2)   Physical design. Community parks shall have open areas of diverse
environmental quality, that may include natural features such as water bodies,
as well as areas suited for more intense activities and/or landscaping
depending on the individual use and facilities within the park.
      (3)   Program alternatives. The park program shall serve a range of
daytime and evening recreation needs for all ages represented in the population
and shall address the following:
         (a)   Passive enjoyment of natural areas, lakes, woods and the like,
such as walking, viewing, sitting, picnicking, nature study, fishing, rowing or
canoeing;
         (b)   More active recreational enjoyment, including hiking, jogging,
horseback riding or bicycling on trails;
         (c)   Athletic or sports games/competitions on indoor or outdoor
athletic fields, ball courts, swimming pools and athletic complexes;
         (d)   Playgrounds with creative play equipment;
         (e)   Meetings, conventions, exhibitions, cultural events in buildings
or other facilities suitable for gatherings; or
         (f)   Concert or theatrical performances in indoor or outdoor
performance facilities or concert shells.
      (4)   Suitable facilities.
         (a)   Picnic shelters;
         (b)   Picnic tables;
         (c)   Football/soccer fields (double use);
         (d)   Baseball/softball diamonds;
         (e)   Tennis court;
         (f)   Handball/racquetball courts (four-wall);
         (g)   Volleyball courts;
         (h)   Creative play areas (for young children: ages one to five);
         (i)   Playgrounds with play equipment (older children: ages six to
14);
         (j)   Running tracks;
         (k)   Indoor sports arenas and exercise facilities;
         (l)   Swimming pools;
         (m)   Archery ranges;
         (n)   Golf driving ranges;
         (o)   Trails: hiking, nature or interpretive, equestrian, bicycle/
jogging and fitness with exercise stations;
         (p)   Boat docks/canoes or rowboats; and
         (q)   Restrooms.
      (5)   Special community parks. Special community parks are included in
this category insofar as they address community-wide recreational interests and
needs and may be smaller or larger in size than the required area for community
parks. These special parks include:
         (a)   A special cultural park to accommodate music, dance and drama
performances, with a covered shelter or pavilion and outdoor seating, and with
support facilities and parking; and
         (b)   An open village green in the Village Center District of
approximately one acre in size, to serve as a landscaped amenity with no
recreational facilities. Such a park is intended to strengthen the identity and
visual quality of the Village Center. Its arrangement may be segmented into
smaller interconnected parcels or squares.
   (C)   Neighborhood park standards.
      (1)   Service area/location. A one-half mile service radius (travel time:
ten-minute walk) which serves one neighborhood. Neighborhood parks shall be
located to supplement community parks where community parks are not
sufficiently close for easy access (e.g., a distance greater than one-half
mile).
      (2)   Physical design.
         (a)   Neighborhood parks shall have an active recreational emphasis
and are intended to provide facilities primarily for older children and
teenagers. A part of the park shall be left undeveloped as a natural area that
children in the neighborhood may use for imaginative games and creating their
own places for play.
         (b)   Features of neighborhood parks include: a combination of natural
or landscaped areas and paved areas that includes ball courts and game areas;
structured playgrounds with equipment; undeveloped play areas; benches or other
seating; and paths for walking through the park.
      (3)   Program alternatives. These parks will primarily serve daytime
recreation needs for citizens of all ages living in the surrounding
neighborhood, especially older children and teenagers, including:
         (a)   Passive activities such as strolling, picnicking, sitting,
crafts;
         (b)   Active intense play, with play apparatus and a supervised
playground program that may also include low-level competition and physical
skills for grade school age children;
         (c)   Organized court or field games with teams and leagues;
         (d)   Group meetings; and
         (e)   Unstructured recreation and games.
      (4)   Suitable facilities.
         (a)   Picnic tables;
         (b)   Picnic shelters;
         (c)   Softball diamond/baseball diamonds;
         (d)   Tennis courts (or multiple recreation court with volleyball and
racquetball);
         (e)   Volleyball courts/fields;
         (f)   Handball/racquetball courts;
         (g)   Swimming pools and change rooms;
         (h)   Playgrounds with play equipment for pre-teens;
         (i)   Jogging/exercise trails;
         (j)   Park benches/seating;
         (k)   Horseshoe courts;
         (l)   Swings;
         (m)   Natural play areas; and
         (n)   Restrooms.
   (D)   Pocket parks standards.
      (1)   Service area/location: a one quarter mile service radius (travel
time: five-minute walk) which serves sub-areas of a neighborhood.
      (2)   Physical design:
         (a)   A paved and/or landscaped area with creative play equipment for
small children and seating for adults to observe and supervise children at
play; and
         (b)   Pocket parks shall vary in size ranging from a minimum of 5,000
square feet to a maximum of 30,000 square feet. They shall be constructed on
land that is relatively flat, dry and capable of serving the purpose intended,
and shall be attractively landscaped.
      (3)   Program alternatives:
         (a)   “Children’s lots” for play of young children of preschool ages;
         (b)   Passive activities or walking, sitting and picnicking; and
         (c)   Daylight use only.
      (4)   Suitable facilities:
         (a)   Creative play equipment (swings, slides, climber) for children
(under age six);
         (b)   Creative play apparatus (merry-go-round, climber and the like)
for older children (ages six to 14);
         (c)   Sand box;
         (d)   Wading pool;
         (e)   Benches or other seating;
         (f)   Picnic tables;
         (g)   Fountains; and
         (h)   Grills.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1190.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 7-B SCHOOL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Population density.
      (1)   For purposes of calculating the estimated number of children to be
generated from a residential subdivision or planned development, the table of
estimated population shown below shall be used. This table is generally
indicative of current projected trends in family size for new construction. In
the event a developer files a written objection to the table with the Planning
Director, he or she shall submit a demographic study showing the estimated
population to be generated from the development. The final determination of the
density formula to be used shall be made by the Village Board. It is recognized
that population density, age distribution and local conditions change over the
years, and the specific formula for the dedication of land or the payment of
fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic review and
amendment if necessary.
Table of Estimated Population
                   Elementary   Junior High High School
Type of Pre-School Grades K-    Grades 6-   Grades 9-12 Adults (18 Total per
Unit    0-4 Years  5 5-10 Years 8 11-13     14-17 Years and up)    Unit
                                Years
Table of Estimated Population
                      Elementary   Junior High High School
Type of    Pre-School Grades K-    Grades 6-   Grades 9-12 Adults (18 Total per
Unit       0-4 Years  5 5-10 Years 8 11-13     14-17 Years and up)    Unit
                                   Years
Apartments
Efficiency -0-        -0-          -0-         -0-         1          1
1 Bedroom  -0-        -0-          -0-         -0-         1.2        1.2
2 Bedroom  0.025      0.026        0.015       0.025       1.600      1.691
3 Bedroom  0.145      0.145        0.027       0.059       2.330      2.706
Attached single-family
1 Bedroom  -0-        -0-          -0-         -0-         1.050      1.050
2 Bedroom  0.051      0.075        0.011       0.021       1.741      1.899
3 Bedroom  0.217      0.212        0.022       0.051       1.775      2.277
4 Bedroom  0.333      0.316        0.166       0.180       2.333      3.328
Detached single-family
2 Bedroom  0.125      0.11         0.026       0.018       1.65       1.929
3 Bedroom  0.251      0.32         0.158       0.208       1.875      2.812
4 Bedroom  0.396      0.431        0.284       0.447       2.21       3.768
5 Bedroom  0.338      0.446        0.38        0.467       2.65       4.281
 
      (2)   All buildings, structures and recreational facilities built as part
of any park or school shall conform to the design guidelines established by the
village. All parks and schools shall be easily accessible to the surrounding
residential neighborhood in regard to location, paths and visibility.
   (B)   School classification/site requirements. School classifications and
the size of school sites within the village shall be determined as follows.
 
School Classification by  Maximum Number of Students Minimum Number of Acres
Grade                     for each School            for each School Site
Elementary School
Kindergarten through 5th  600 students               11 acres
(K-5)
Junior High School 6th    900 students               19 acres
through 8th (6-8)
High School 9th through   2,300 students             48 acres
12th (9-12)
 
   (C)   Population/land ratio.
      (1)   The amount of land required to be dedicated for school sites is
directly related to the ultimate number of students to be generated by a
residential development. The land dedication requirement shall be determined by
obtaining the ratio of estimated children to be served in each such school
classification as required in division (A) above divided by the maximum number
of students for each such school classification as required in division (B)
above, then multiply by the minimum number of acres of land for each school
site as required in division (B) above.
      (2)   The product of this calculation shall be the acres of land needed
to have sufficient land for school sites to serve the estimated increase in
children in each school classification.
 
Land area donated for schools = estimated children/maximum students per school
x minimum acres per school
 
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 7-C PARK/SCHOOL LAND DEDICATION.
   (A)   As a condition of final approval of a residential subdivision or
planned development, developers will be required to dedicate land other than
Village Greenway land for park/recreation purposes and for schools to serve the
immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, or a cash
contribution in lieu of actual land dedication, or a combination of both at the
option of the village using the land formulas in §§ 7-A and 7-B as follows.
      (1)   Land required by the village for dedication which is in excess of
the requirements shall be purchased or acquired through condemnation.
      (2)   Community, neighborhood and pocket park lands which fulfill the
requirements shall be dedicated to the village and will be operated/maintained
by the Village Parks and Recreation Department. If the required park land to be
dedicated is to be owned, maintained and operated by the development’s
homeowner’s association, then such land does not need to be dedicated to the
village and, if acceptable to the Planning Director, will satisfy the park
requirements contained in this article.
      (3)   Lands which fulfill the requirements for schools shall be dedicated
to the appropriate school district.
      (4)   Cash contributions in lieu of land dedications requirements
indicated above shall be based upon average fair market value of the land being
subdivided. Cash contributions shall be made to the village or to the
appropriate school district for the purpose of purchasing or improving land for
parks and schools.
   (B)   In the event a developer dedicates land for a combined park and school
site which is approved by the village, the amount of land required to be
dedicated hereunder by the developer for park and school sites shall be reduced
by 10% or such other amount as may be mutually agreed upon by the developer and
the village.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 7-D PRIVATE COMMON AREAS.
   A homeowner’s association or similar entity shall be established by the
developer or owner of a residential development to maintain and control all
private common land areas and recreation facilities, not dedicated to the
Village Conservation Association or to the village as follows.
   (A)   Establishment of the association or similar entity shall be made
before any lot in the development is sold or any building occupied.
   (B)   The association or similar legal entity must have clear legal
authority and the obligation to maintain and exercise control over such common
areas. In the event the association or similar entity fails to fulfill its
obligations, the village, at its option, has the authority to enter upon the
property and to perform all acts it deems necessary to maintain the property.
   (C)   The association or similar legal entity shall have the power to compel
contributions from residents to cover their proportionate shares of the cost
associated with maintenance and upkeep of common areas and facilities.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 8. ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
§ 8-A COUNTY WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE.
   All development within the village shall conform to the County Watershed
Development Ordinance, as it may be amended and republished from time to time,
which is hereby adopted as part of this code. See
Chapter 154.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 8-B FLOODWAYS AND FLOODPLAINS.
   (A)   Construction approval.
      (1)   No zoning or building permit may be issued for any development
within a floodplain until the Planning Director and Plan Commission have
reviewed the plans to assure that:
         (a)   The proposed development is consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage;
         (b)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
         (c)   Adequate drainage is provided to minimize or reduce exposure to
flood hazards; and
         (d)   All necessary permits have been received from those agencies
from which approval is required by federal, state or county law.
      (2)   No zoning or building permit may be issued for any development
within a floodplain until the Planning Director has reviewed the plans to
assure that any new construction or substantial improvements shall be:
         (a)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation collapse or lateral movement of any structure;
         (b)   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage;
         (c)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
and
         (d)   Designated so that any portion of a floodplain which is filled
in with fill dirt is adequately stabilized to withstand the erosive force of
the base flood.
   (B)   Water supply/sanitary sewer systems. Whenever any portion of a
proposed development is located within a floodway or floodplain, the agency or
agencies responsible for certifying to the village the adequacy of the water
supply and sewage disposal systems for the development shall be informed by the
developer that a specified area within the development lies within a floodway
or floodplain. Thereafter, approval of the proposed system by that agency or
agencies shall constitute a certification that:
      (1)   Such water supply system is designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwaters into it;
      (2)   Such sanitary sewer system is designed to eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into it and discharges from it into floodwaters; and
      (3)   Any on-site sewage disposal system is located to avoid impairment
to it or contamination from it during flooding.
   (C)   Additional requirements. For the purpose of the determination of
applicable flood insurance risk premium rates within Zone A on the village’s
flood insurance rate map provided by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, the Planning Director shall:
      (1)   Obtain from the developer the elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest habitable floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Obtain, for all structures that have been floodproofed (whether or
not such structures contain a basement) the elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure was floodproofed; and
      (3)   Maintain a record of all such information.
   (D)   Floodplain/floodway boundaries. The Planning Director is authorized to
make necessary interpretations as to the exact location of the boundaries of
floodways or floodplains if there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and the actual field conditions delineated by the developer or
village. Such interpretations, like other decisions of the Planning Director,
may be appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with the
applicable provisions of this code.
   (E)   Streams outside designated floodplains. In any area that is located
outside a designated floodplain but where a stream is located, no building or
fill may be located within a distance of the stream bank equal to five times
the width of the stream at the top of the bank or 20 feet on each side,
whichever is greater.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 8-C STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   The County Watershed Development Ordinance, as most recently amended by the
county on June 11, 2013, is hereby adopted by reference and is in full force
and effect within the village and is found in its own compilation.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2013-0-2, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 8-D WETLANDS.
   (A)   Wetlands mitigation.
      (1)   Wetland impacts resulting from site development may be mitigated as
per the requirements established by the Section 404 Program, administered by
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and as per requirements set forth in the
County Watershed Development Ordinance, as administered by the county.
      (2)   In special cases, with concurrence by regulatory agencies, wetland
impact mitigation can be accomplished off-site within the Village Greenway
District.
   (B)   Buffer zone.
      (1)   No development activity (except buffer zone uses as provided for in
the County Water Shed Development Ordinance) shall occur within minimum buffer
zones or setbacks of 50 feet from the edge of wetlands greater than one acre
which are designated as exceptional functional value wetlands (in accordance
with the County Water Shed Development Ordinance or the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers wetland delineation standards). Greater setbacks from high quality
wetlands are encouraged.
      (2)   Development activities within the buffer zone shall only be
approved based upon a report, prepared by a qualified professional, which
demonstrates that they will not:
         (a)   Adversely affect water quality;
         (b)   Destroy, damage or disrupt significant habitat areas;
         (c)   Adversely affect drainage;
         (d)   Lead to unstable earth conditions;
         (e)   Create erosion hazards; or
         (f)   Be detrimental to any other property in the area of the site or
to the village as a whole, including the loss of open space or scenic vistas.
      (3)   In addition, the Planning Director’s and Plan Commission’s review
of the proposed development activity within the minimum setback area shall
consider the following:
         (a)   Land surface modification for the development of stormwater
drainage swales between the developed areas of the site;
         (b)   No filling or excavating within wetlands is to be done except to
install piers for the limited development of walkways and observation decks.
Walkways and observation decks shall be located to avoid high quality wetland
areas and shall not adversely affect natural areas designated in the State
Natural Areas Inventory or the habitats of rare or endangered species;
         (c)   Wetland areas occupied by the development of walkways and decks
are mitigated by an equal area of wetland habitat improvement; and
         (d)   Modification of degraded wetlands for purposes of stormwater
management where the quality of the wetland is improved and total wetland
acreage is preserved. Where such modification is permitted, wetlands shall be
protected from the effects of increased stormwater runoff by measures such as
detention or sedimentation basins, vegetated swales and buffer strips and
sediment and erosion control measures on adjacent development. The direct entry
of storm sewers into wetlands shall be avoided.
      (4)   Additionally, environmental impact analysis of wetland modification
may be required in accordance with federal, state and county ordinances.
   (C)   Wetlands stabilization.
      (1)   An applicant for a special use permit to modify wetlands and/or to
construct the limited uses allowed within the buffer zone, shall stabilize
areas left exposed after land surface modification with vegetation normally
associated with that stream or wetland. The planting of native riparian
vegetation is recommended as the preferred stabilization measure.
      (2)   Other techniques shall be used only when and where vegetation fails
to control erosion. The preferred alternative is riprap, using natural rock
materials where practicable, installed on eroding bank areas in a manner that
provides interstitial space for vegetative growth and habitat for macro-
invertebrates and other stream organisms.
      (3)   Lining the stream channel bottom is not permitted.
   (D)   Wetlands management.
      (1)   Wetlands management shall be consistent with mitigation objectives
focused on the long-term maintenance and enhancement of functional values.
      (2)   A wetlands management plan shall be prepared as part of the wetland
impact mitigation process. This plan shall state management goals, techniques,
scheduling and monitoring procedures and contingency plans to remediate
problems.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 8-E RIPARIAN HABITAT.
   (A)   Functional values. Riparian or streamside vegetation serves a valuable
natural function for rivers, streams and other waterways. Functional values
include:
      (1)   Water temperature modulation to prevent wide fluctuations which can
adversely affect fish and other aquatic organisms. High water temperatures in
the summer can severely limit the capacity of water to hold dissolved oxygen;
      (2)   Bank stabilization to resist excessive scouring and minimize bank
erosion;
      (3)   Wildlife habitat, with trees, shrubs and ground cover offering
nesting, feeding and cover for mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians;
      (4)   Nutrient input through organic matter such as leaves, insects and
the like which serve as a food source for aquatic invertebrates and fish; and
      (5)   Surface run-off filtration to intercept sediments and pollutants
and encourage absorption of dissolved materials before they enter surface
waters.
   (B)   Preservation/mitigation. No building permit shall be issued for a
development which will be constructed on a site which encompasses a
drainageway, stream, creek or river unless either:
      (1)   Existing riparian habitat is preserved; or
      (2)   Losses in functional value resulting from alterations to a drainage
course or its riparian habitat are fully replaced.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 9. DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 9-A DESIGN INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of the site and building design standards is to give
further direction regarding the village’s design intent for new development.
These standards are intended to produce efficient and aesthetically pleasing
developments of the highest quality, which are consistent with the goals and
direction of the Comprehensive Plan. It is the intent of the Comprehensive Plan
and these standards to encourage creative site and building design.
   (B)   The design of each development, whether it consists of one building or
multiple buildings, will be reviewed by the Planning Director and Plan
Commission for its suitability for a given site, compatibility with adjacent
developments and consistency with the goal of minimizing physical change to the
village’s natural environment. Along with site layout and architecture, key
aspects of the village’s design review will be the evaluation of the overall
visual appearance and beauty of roadscapes, streetscapes, parks and other open
spaces within each development and the preservation of significant natural
areas and scenic views.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 9-B GENERAL DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Small town/rural character.
      (1)   Site and building design in all districts shall be compatible with
the rural scale, architecture and image of the village and surrounding area.
      (2)   Wherever practical, the design shall preserve and enhance the rural
character, natural features and landscape patterns of the village and establish
the village as a planned, interconnected small town rather than an unrelated
collection of subdivisions.
      (3)   Where practical, existing rural buildings such as houses and barns
should be preserved and incorporated as integral elements with the proposed
development.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1192.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1194.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1196.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1198.jpg]
   (B)   Village greenway connections. Wherever practical, all open spaces
within dvelopment sites, including prairies, wetlands, floodplains, water
courses and parks shall be connected to the Village Greenway with open space
corridors and/or pathways.
   (C)   Energy conservation. Site design shall utilize building forms, natural
landforms and landscaping to take advantage of prevailing summer winds for
cooling, and to buffer against adverse winter wind conditions. Buildings shall
be positioned and designed to maximize use of the sun for passive solar
collection, and to respect the solar access needs of adjacent buildings where
practical. Building design shall incorporate south facing windows with roof
overhangs, well-insulated walls and roofs and in large buildings, heat
exchangers to reduce energy loss from exhaust air.
   (D)   Building/parking footprint. Building and parking footprints shall not
encroach on setbacks or easements; and be in accordance with the building site
coverage, impervious surface, parking, landscaping and open space requirements
of this code.
   (E)   Building height. All buildings must conform to the maximum allowable
building heights contained in the zoning district regulations for the district
in which the building is located.
   (F)   Building massing.
      (1)   Massing of all buildings, including accessory and public buildings,
shall address how the building visually relates to the site, adjacent
buildings, adjacent properties and the village’s overall natural environment
building massing shall also consider the visual impacts of the proposed
building or buildings from nearby roadways. Building massing, where practical,
shall promote continuity between development sites, preserve significant views
and help create and maintain solar access to people-oriented ground spaces such
as plazas, parks, courts and the like.
      (2)   Building massing shall minimize impacts on adjacent site access and
views. Buildings shall be architecturally attractive on all sides, except for
those accessory buildings which will be extensively screened by landscaping as
required in Article 10. Massing shall also be sensitive to the human scale and
potential for pedestrian use of adjacent ground spaces.
   (G)   Building orientation.
      (1)   Climatic considerations in the design of all buildings are critical
due to the weather extremes of northern Illinois and the impact of ice and
other severe winter conditions on pedestrian/vehicular access and movement
pedestrian walkways and major building entries shall, wherever practical, be
directed away from the north sides of buildings where snow and ice build-up
more often occurs.
      (2)   The “wind tunnel” effect between buildings at building bases should
be avoided and mitigated wherever possible.
   (H)   Exterior building materials.
      (1)   Exterior building materials shall be, where practical, compatible
with adjacent buildings and development. Exterior materials shall be chosen for
their suitability to the site and to proposed land uses, and for their
permanence and ease of maintenance.
      (2)   Metal panel, prefabricated and tilt-up type siding and non-
decorative exposed concrete block buildings are not allowed.
   (I)   Architectural design.
      (1)   Building design shall incorporate attractive fenestration, cornice
lines, step backs and material changes where practical to avoid solid, boxlike
structures with long continuous facades. Fenestration shall assist in giving
buildings appropriate scale and to help identify entrances and uses.
Architectural detailing shall be attractive and harmonious with natural site
conditions and a small town setting.
      (2)   Building design shall efficiently organize and define basic
building functions, including entrances from streets, drives and parking areas,
pedestrian links between buildings and internal/external pedestrian activity
areas. All building additions, accessory buildings, parking structures, walls
or fences shall be of similar design and include similar materials as the main
structure or structures on a lot.
      (3)   All mechanical, electrical and communications equipment shall be
designed to be an integral part of any building or building improvement. No
heating, air conditioning, communications, window washing or other equipment
may be installed on the roof of any building or structure or hung on exterior
walls unless screened with parapet walls and/or with the same or similar
materials as the primary building exterior skin. No mansard roofs are allowed.
   (J)   Building colors. Extreme color contrast is strongly discouraged,
especially broad applications of bright highlight or primary colors. Earth tone
colors which help blend structures with adjacent natural areas are preferred.
   (K)   Walls and fences.
      (1)   Walls and fences shall be considered as extensions of a building’s
architecture. They shall provide a transition between the building mass,
building architecture and the natural forms of the site. All walls and fences
shall be designed to be compatible with the surrounding area and where
practical shall not block scenic views except to screen buildings and
equipment.
      (2)   Walls and fences shall be considered as design elements for
enclosure/definition of people-oriented ground spaces and for security and
privacy. Retaining walls which are extended from buildings shall utilize the
same materials as the building. Exposed concrete or concrete block walls shall
be avoided where practical. If retaining walls are freestanding, they shall be
clad in the same or similar materials as nearby buildings.
      (3)   Maximum height for all freestanding walls and fences is six feet.
Shorter walls and fences shall be considered for internal areas of the site.
      (4)   The design of all external walls and fences shall be simple and
respect the open rural character of the village. Fences and walls exposed to
views from the major and minor arterial roads within and adjacent to the
village will be strictly controlled and must meet the design requirements of
each zoning district, including establishment of design covenants. If
individual property owners desire to erect a wall or fence on any yard of an
existing property which does not have design covenants, that owner must apply
for a special use permit from the Plan Commission.
      (5)   Vehicular guardrails installed along any road, street, sidewalk,
path, parking area, service area, drainage area or building, shall be of a
heavy timber design. Steel guardrails and barbed wire enclosures are not
allowed in any district or in any yard, except around temporary construction
yards. Chain-link fences will only be allowed under certain circumstances when
properly landscaped and screened in accordance with Article 10.
   (L)   Exterior lighting.
      (1)   Exterior lighting standards shall regulate the construction,
installation or modification of any lighting system for the purpose of lighting
a site’s external areas, including, but not limited to, signs, buildings,
parking areas, pedestrian areas, landscaping, walkways, porches, driveways and
roads/streets.
      (2)   Exterior lighting shall not intrude, project or beam upon adjacent
properties and shall not be highly visible from arterial roads adjacent or near
the site. All site lighting design shall use standard village fixtures and
illumination levels which promote proper safety for pedestrian/vehicular
movement and access and provide an interconnected lighting design theme
throughout the village. Any change to the design of an exterior lighting system
after a development is completed must receive a special use permit from the
Plan Commission.
   (M)   Outdoor recreation facilities. All public and private outdoor
recreation facilities, including, but not limited to, tennis courts, basketball
courts, pools and health clubs, cannot extend into building setbacks or scenic
easements. The Planning Director shall review all such facilities for visual
impacts from adjacent properties and arterial roads.
   (N)   Parking structures.
      (1)   Parking structures may have a maximum of one level above grade
level. A maximum area of 130 feet by 200 feet can be exposed to the sky, with a
minimum 20-foot grade-level landscaped separation zone between such structures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1200.jpg]
      (2)   Parking structures, including exposed parking levels within
building bases, shall be visually screened with earth berms and vegetation. If
such landscaping is not practical and the structure will be visible, then the
facade must be designed with architectural fenestration that relates to the
scale, character and materials of the primary buildings on the site.
   (O)   Traffic signals. All signalized intersections within and adjacent
borders of the village shall use standard village traffic signals which promote
proper safety for pedestrian/vehicular movement and access and provide an
interconnected design theme throughout the village.
   (P)   Street signs. All street signs within and adjacent to the borders of
the village shall use standard village street signs which promote easy
identification of streets and provide an interconnected design theme throughout
the village.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 9-C CORPORATE CAMPUS DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Exterior building materials. Preferred office building materials
include stone veneers, architectural metals, architectural pre-cast concrete,
brick and non-reflective glass. If metallic coatings are used on glass, it is
recommended that they be of low reflectivity on the sides of the glass facing
towards the layer of air between glass in thermal windows. Glass with
reflectivity of less than 30% is preferred.
   (B)   Ground level transparency. Window fenestration at the ground level
near major pedestrian entrances and activity areas shall have greater
transparency to provide a more pedestrian friendly ground level environment and
to facilitate pedestrian movement to and from buildings.
   (C)   Walls and fences. Continuous walls or fences are not allowed around
the perimeter of any development within the Corporate Campus District. Fences
and walls can only be used near buildings for decoration, screening or spatial
enclosure of ground level people spaces, parking areas or service areas. Such
fences and walls shall not be visible from adjacent arterial roads and shall
not exceed six feet in height.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 9-D RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Site design.
      (1)   All residential districts.
         (a)   The design of subdivisions within all residential districts
shall minimize the number and lengths of streets, roads, and other paved areas.
Street and road layouts shall be simple and shall establish an uncomplicated
hierarchy of collector and local streets that is easy for motorists and
pedestrians to understand and navigate.
         (b)   If the population density of a development is enough to require
public or community facilities, then all required parks, recreation facilities,
schools, community centers, day care centers and/or convenience retail stores
shall be grouped together, where practical. Such groupings shall be located
along collector streets in a central location within the site which facilitates
walking and bicycling access for all homes within the development.
         (c)   The location within the site designated for such facilities
shall be considered as a neighborhood activity center and shall be planned in
coordination with neighborhood activity centers in adjacent residential
developments regarding location and distribution. Open pedestrian plazas and
neighborhood greens, along with special architectural elements which identify
or mark the neighborhood center shall be considered. Such features shall also
be considered throughout a site as special identification or focal points.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1202.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1204.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1206.jpg]
      (2)   Cluster design.
         (a)   1.   Cluster residential design, whereby the buildable lot area
within a site is reduced and homes are concentrated or clustered on small lots
with large common open spaces preserved, shall be considered for all
residential developments.
            2.   Such design is intended to maximize the preservation of
environmentally sensitive land, establish larger, more meaningful common, open
spaces and minimize the physical impact of development on the existing
landscape including scenic views.
         (b)   Cluster design brings homes closer together in more of a
neighborhood setting promotes more efficient use of land and reduces
infrastructure requirements which can lower the cost of residential
development.
         (c)   Each cluster development shall conform to Article 4 regarding
lot sizes and dimensions. The buildable lot area within the total development
site upon which homes will be concentrated or clustered shall be not larger
than 50% of the site.
         (d)   Within a buildable clustered area, homes shall be typically
arranged in groups of six to 12 units. Each group shall be separated by at
least a 50-foot setback between rear lot lines. Such open setbacks shall be
linked where possible to the larger open spaces created by clustering the
development.
      (3)   Small town traditional.
         (a)   Small town traditional residential design, whereby homes are
organized on smaller lots within a grid pattern of streets and oriented toward
pedestrian activity centers, shall also be considered for all residential
development, including cluster type. Such design is intended to establish more
pedestrian-oriented communities, focused on parks, schools, the village’s
Special Retail Districts and the Village Center District.
         (b)   Street, sidewalk and path layouts shall encourage walking and
bicycling, and minimize the use of the car. Alleys shall be considered to
accommodate car access at the rear of each home while retaining pedestrian
scaled entry facades facing the street.
         (c)   Principal roofs on all structures in a small town traditional
design shall be pitched.
         (d)   Flat roofs are permitted on up to 20% of the overall roof area,
if such a roof is considered a useable, accessible deck and is enclosed with a
continuous wooden balustrade.
         (e)   Front yard white picket fences, streetside mailboxes and porches
shall be considered as common elements of the overall design theme.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1208.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1210.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1212.jpg]
   (B)   Building design.
      (1)   Single design theme. A residential development can be planned with
one overall architectural design theme to foster a sense of community and
identity. However, to avoid rigid conformity to a theme and design monotony,
where buildings look exactly the same, such developments shall vary the color,
massing, fenestration and detail of each house within the design theme.
      (2)   Multiple design styles. If a single, overall design theme is not
desired, new residential development may incorporate a variety of architectural
styles to establish a different community character. If multiple styles are
used, then the design of each house must respect a single architectural style
and follow its primary elements, including massing, roofs, facade, fenestration
and detailing.
   (C)   Roof pitch. All residential buildings shall have a pitched primary
roof. Flat primary roofs on custom built homes will be allowed in certain cases
following review by the Planning Director and Plan Commission as provided in
this article. No mansard roofs are allowed.
   (D)   Exterior building materials. Preferred residential building materials
include brick, stone, wood and clear glass. Roofing materials such as slate,
tile, cedar shingles, cedar shakes and standing seam metal shall be considered,
with composite asphalt shingles allowed. No vinyl siding is allowed.
   (E)   Garages.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1214.jpg]
      (1)   Garages, whether single or multiple bay, attached to or detached
from all single-family attached homes and multi-family residential buildings
shall not project out into front or corner side yards more than ten feet. Such
garages shall not dominate the views and image of the building from adjoining
streets and shall not create long, thin and dark pedestrian walks to primary
building entrances.
      (2)   Garages, wherever possible, shall be incorporated into the facade
of the building in ways to minimize their prominence in the building’s massing.
Locating garages in rear yards with access from alleys is encouraged in small
town traditional development.
   (F)   Walls and fences.
      (1)   Front and corner side yards.
         (a)   No exterior walls and fences are allowed in any front or corner
side yards, except on blocks with 4,000 square foot or smaller lots. Walls and
fences on such blocks shall be partially transparent, allowing at least 50%
visibility.
         (b)   If such walls and fences are proposed as part of a residential
development and will not be initially installed, the developer must prepare
coordinated design guidelines for such walls and fences which will be part of
the title covenants of each lot. The purpose of such covenants is to coordinate
the overall design theme of the walls and fences when they are installed later
by individual homeowners.
      (2)   Rear yards. If a development adjacent a major or minor arterial
road is planned so that rear yards abut on or near the scenic easement of such
roads, the developer must prepare design guidelines for any walls and fences
which will be part of the title covenants of each lot sold to coordinate the
overall design theme. Such walls or fences shall be partially transparent,
allowing at least 10% visibility. All rear yard lot lines shall be screened
from views from arterial roads as required in Article 10.
   (G)   Design guidelines. If a site is to be developed with lots which will
be sold for construction of homes at a later time by individual lot owners,
then the developer must prepare design guidelines for architectural design,
including accessory structures, and landscape design, including walls and
fences. These guidelines will become part of the title covenants of each lot
sold to coordinate the overall design theme. Such design guidelines shall be
submitted to the Planning Director and Plan Commission during the final
planning phase of the project.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 9-E SPECIAL RETAIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Site design.
      (1)   All retail buildings and retail centers shall have, wherever
possible, direct street, sidewalk and path connections to adjacent residential
districts. Such development shall orient to nearby residential neighborhoods as
well as to adjacent arterial roads. Traffic from adjacent residential areas
shall be able to use internal collector and local streets rather than main
arterials to access retail district parking areas.
      (2)   Primary parking areas shall be located on the sides of buildings
facing arterial roads, with primary access points from such roads. Small
parking areas behind buildings shall be considered for employee parking. Such
parking shall use the same driveway as rear service areas. Rear parking areas
and all service areas shall be screened from adjacent views, including views
from within the retail districts.
      (3)   Parking lots shall be designed as small landscaped cells to avoid
large paved surfaces which dominate the development. (See Article 13 and
Article 10.)
      (4)   The number of curb cuts for access driveways from arterial roads
shall be kept to a minimum. Access drives between individual developments shall
be used wherever possible to avoid the use of arterial roads for trips between
adjacent retail facilities. All parking areas located in adjacent retail
developments shall be interconnected with easily accessible driveways between
property lots and from streets accessing adjacent residential areas.
      (5)   Freestanding retail facilities such as banks or restaurants shall
wherever possible be accessed from common entrance drives within the overall
development to avoid curb cuts on arterial roads. Such facilities shall also be
located as close as possible to main or nearby retail buildings to facilitate
pedestrian movement to them and to minimize the need to make additional vehicle
trips within the same parking lot to access other retail facilities.
      (6)   People-oriented, ground level spaces shall be created where
practical in front of or between buildings and shall be landscaped as special
public areas for the community.
      (7)   All retail development shall be sensitive to the interface or
relationships between retail buildings, service areas, parking areas and
adjacent residential districts. All retail buildings adjacent residential
streets shall be set back the same distance as the front or corner side yards
of adjacent homes.
   (B)   Building design.
      (1)   All retail buildings shall have pitched roofs, covered walkways or
arcades along front sidewalks, defined entrances and knee walls below windows.
All store fronts and sides, especially those facing residential streets, shall
include display windows wherever possible to enhance visibility for
pedestrians, to facilitate pedestrian movement and to provide an active,
visible and more pedestrian friendly shopping environment.
      (2)   All exposed views of the backs and sides of retail buildings shall
be screened or treated with an architectural facade similar to the store front.
Large blank walls without glass shall be minimized including walls on large
grocery, food or appliance stores. Buildings with all glass, metal frame, flat
and unarticulated facades and/or boxed roofs, are prohibited.
      (3)   Multi-story retail buildings with offices, apartments and/or
condominiums above shops shall be considered.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1216.jpg]
   (C)   Millburn Historic District. In addition to the design standards of the
Special Retail Districts, buildings constructed within the Millburn Historic
District or within 250 feet of the district shall:
      (1)   Be architecturally compatible with the 1850-1860’s Queen Anne style
of most Millburn buildings;
      (2)   Include porches which front on adjacent streets, including those
buildings fronting on Millburn Road or Grass Lake Road or Old Route 45 (if a
new bypass Route 45 is developed);
      (3)   Have sloped primary roofs pitched similar to existing historical
structures;
      (4)   Have a building volume mass no larger than 120% of the largest
historic structure (not including the church); and
      (5)   Utilize wood or masonry exterior materials and colors compatible
with the historic structures.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 9-F VILLAGE CENTER DISTRICT.
   (A)   Site design.
      (1)   Development of the Village Center District shall frame the long
double row of maple trees which extends east from Hunt Club Road toward the
Village Greenway District, to create a town or village green. This common green
shall terminate on the east at a location planned for a future Village Hall,
which will utilize either an existing farm structure located there or a new
building. As the Village Center develops outward from the Village Green, street
and open space connections to adjacent corporate campus and residential
districts shall be included in the site design.
      (2)   Public or community buildings shall flank the Village Hall location
on either side to the north and south. The entrance to the Village Center
District shall be established by a new east/west street which will extend
around the green as a main street in front of shops and other Village Center
District uses. Angle parking along this street shall be provided on the side of
the street away from the central green.
      (3)   Streetscape elements which establish a special identity for the
Village Center District such as kiosks, signs, paving materials, benches,
bicycle racks and fountains shall be considered.
      (4)   Uses, buildings and outdoor spaces which encourage public,
pedestrian-oriented activities shall be incorporated whenever possible. Parking
lots shall be minimal in size and located where practical around the periphery
of the district. Hitching posts and watering troughs for horses shall be
considered for Village Center District buildings located adjacent open space
connections to the Village Greenway District.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1218.jpg]
   (B)   Building design. Building design shall recognize the visibility of the
Village Center District as a special public place. Clock towers, church
steeples, flagpoles, statutes and fountains shall be considered as landmark
focal points within the district.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 9-G BUSINESS PARK DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Exterior building materials. Preferred building materials include
stone veneers, architectural metals, architectural pre-cast concrete, brick and
non-reflective glass. If metallic coatings are used on glass, it is recommended
that they be of low reflectivity on the sides of the glass facing towards the
layer of air between glass in thermal windows. Glass with reflectivity of less
than 30% is preferred. Metal trim materials may be used when in keeping with
the architectural and aesthetic character of the building. Decorative concrete
block and smooth or rough finished plaster can only be used as an accent
material and limited to no more than 25% of a wall surface.
   (B)   Ground level transparency. Window fenestration at the ground level
near major pedestrian entrances and activity areas shall have greater
transparency to provide a more pedestrian friendly ground level environment and
to facilitate pedestrian movement to and from buildings.
   (C)   Walls and fences. Continuous walls or fences are not allowed around
the perimeter of any development within the Corporate Campus District. Fences
and walls can only be used near buildings for decoration, screening or spatial
enclosure of ground level people spaces, parking areas or service areas. Such
fences and walls shall not be visible from adjacent arterial roads and shall
not exceed six feet in height.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 9-H COMMUNITY RETAIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Site design.
      (1)   All retail buildings and retail centers shall have, wherever
possible, direct street, sidewalk and path connections to adjacent residential
districts. Such development shall orient to nearby residential neighborhoods as
well as to adjacent arterial roads. Traffic from adjacent residential areas
shall be able to use internal collector and local streets rather than main
arterials to access retail district parking areas.
      (2)   Primary parking areas shall be located on the sides of buildings
facing arterial roads, with primary access points from such roads. Small
parking areas behind buildings shall be considered for employee parking. Such
parking shall use the same driveway as rear service areas. Rear parking areas
and all service areas shall be screened from adjacent views including views
from within the retail district.
      (3)   Parking lots shall be designed as small landscaped cells to avoid
large paved surfaces which dominate the development. (See Article 13 and
Article 10.)
      (4)   The number of curb cuts for access driveways from arterial roads
shall be kept to a minimum. Access drives between individual developments shall
be used wherever possible to avoid the use of arterial roads for trips between
adjacent retail facilities. All parking areas located in adjacent retail
developments shall be interconnected with easily accessible driveways between
property lots, and from streets accessing adjacent residential areas.
      (5)   Freestanding retail facilities such as banks or restaurants shall
wherever possible be accessed from common entrance drives within the overall
development to avoid curb cuts on arterial. roads. Such facilities shall also
be located as close as possible to main or nearby retail buildings to
facilitate pedestrian movement to them and to minimize the need to make
additional vehicle trips within the same parking lot to access other retail
facilities.
      (6)   People-oriented, ground level spaces shall be created where
practical in front of or between buildings and shall be landscaped as special
public areas for the community.
      (7)   All retail development shall be sensitive to the interface or
relationships between retail buildings, service areas, parking areas and
adjacent residential districts. All retail buildings adjacent to residential
streets shall be set back the same distance as the front or corner side yards
of adjacent homes.
   (B)   Building design.
      (1)   All retail buildings shall have pitched roofs, covered walkways or
arcades along front sidewalks, defined entrances and knee walls below windows.
All store fronts and sides, especially those facing residential streets, shall
include display windows wherever possible to enhance visibility and a more
pedestrian friendly shopping environment.
      (2)   All exposed views of the backs and sides of retail buildings shall
be screened or treated with an architectural facade similar to the store front.
Large blank walls without glass shall be minimized, including walls on large
grocery, food or appliance stores. Buildings with all glass, metal frame, flat
and unarticulated facades and/or boxed roofs, are prohibited. Metal trim
materials may be used when in keeping with the architectural and aesthetic
character of the building. Decorative concrete block and smooth or rough
finished plaster can only be used as an accent material and limited to no more
than 25% of a wall surface.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
ARTICLE 10. LANDSCAPE STANDARDS
§ 10-A LANDSCAPE DESIGN INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of the village’s landscape standards to organize the
landscape elements of all development, including public facilities in a
coordinated and harmonious manner which preserves and enhances the overall
quality of the physical environment of the village. Landscape design shall
preserve native vegetation wherever possible and provide new plantings which
are sensitive and appropriate to existing conditions.
   (B)   Landscape design shall blend with existing natural conditions to:
      (1)   Reinforce the natural beauty of the village, including scenic
views;
      (2)   Buffer and screen views of buildings, parking lots and loading
areas from arterial roads;
      (3)   Buffer and screen views of nonresidential buildings, parking and
loading areas from residential areas; and
      (4)   Preserve/enhance the area’s natural ecosystem including drainage
courses, wetlands, woodlands, prairies, old fields, creeks and ponds.
   (C)   Landscaping shall provide transitions between buildings, paved areas,
open space and adjacent properties which blend with existing natural
conditions. Landscape plans which emphasize formal, rigid design will be
approved only in special locations such as major site entrances and pedestrian
activity areas, including plazas, courts and gardens. Design of such plantings
shall provide for a transition between formal areas and natural site
conditions.
   (D)   If no wooded areas or water courses exist on a property, site design
shall emphasize a landscape theme which partially reforests the site and
establishes a natural setting which on its periphery is undistinguished from
the rolling country character of the overall village. In such cases, it is
important that new trees establish a landscape pattern that will eventually
frame the development and link the site with adjacent properties in a natural
way. Sparse and scattered placement of plant material shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Heavier planting of a site’s periphery with materials larger in
caliper, height and/or width than would normally be required is encouraged as
soon as possible to establish visual screens and buffers from surrounding
arterial roads. Large sites shall be organized into smaller landscape cells to
assist in breaking up wide, open views of building areas and paved surfaces.
   (F)   New plantings shall be selected and positioned to:
      (1)   Promote stormwater percolation;
      (2)   Minimize stormwater runoff;
      (3)   Reduce soil erosion;
      (4)   Provide windbreaks and shade;
      (5)   Reduce glare, noise and heat;
      (6)   Establish visual screens and buffers;
      (7)   Reinforce and enhance significant existing views;
      (8)   Define pedestrian activity areas adjacent to or near buildings; and
      (9)   Provide naturalistic diversity, including flowering and fall color
materials.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 10-B GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Site grading.
      (1)   Existing landforms.
         (a)   Landscape design shall provide minimal change to the existing
topography of a site. Landscape plans which emphasize major changes to natural
topography with extensive cut and fill will not be approved. Existing landforms
as well as vegetation and watercourses shall be considered important and
integral parts of site design. Existing vegetation shall be protected as
indicated in § 10-F. Site and building design shall place buildings and paved
surfaces on the site in the least intrusive positions to preserve natural
landforms and scenic views from adjacent arterial roads.
         (b)   If a site is predominantly flat, grading may be sensitively used
to enhance the aesthetic quality of the development. Grading can provide relief
to rigid architectural lines, create special pedestrian spaces, screen
objectionable views and add interest and relief to open sites with little
topographic interest.
         (c)   The functional aspects of grading shall be integrated with
aesthetic considerations to produce a graceful, unforced appearance to the
site. For example, gentle mounds may be created to serve as a buffer or act as
a screen element while directing water to a catch basin. In play areas within
parks, for example, a berm may be useful in creating a sound buffer and
lowering the profile of play equipment from views while creating a safe,
controlled area for children to play.
         (d)   On residential sites located along the Tollway and the village’s
arterial roads, berms and/or equivalent plant materials of sufficient size and
quantities to provide noise abatement shall be used.
         (e)   Retention ponds which have steep, unplanted side slopes and
formal edges, are not allowed. All such ponds shall be planted and appear
integrated with the natural landscape setting of the site.
         (f)   The site grading design shall make every reasonable attempt to
preserve existing plant material and vegetation. Existing trees will have the
best opportunity for survival if the grade from the base of the trunk to the
drip line of the branches remains intact without cut or fill. Grading shall be
sympathetic to existing landforms while providing appropriate grade transition
to buildings.
      (2)   Stormwater runoff. Site grading shall retain existing drainage
patterns, while functionally solving drainage problems that may have existed or
resulted from previous alterations to the natural grade.
   (B)   Sidewalks/pathways. Pedestrian and vehicular traffic shall be
separated wherever possible. Sidewalks and pathways shall be oriented to
commercial and recreational areas, schools, bus stops and other similar
activity centers and pedestrian destinations. Pathways shall follow natural
landforms and features. If pathways are proposed as an alternative to required
public sidewalks, special consideration shall be given to their design. Access
for the handicapped and lighting for safety shall be provided. Pathways shall
be located on the site’s natural grade, following its topography unless the
existing slope exceeds 30%. They shall be wide enough to allow safe passage for
pedestrians moving in both directions. Bicycle traffic shall be considered in
the design of such pathways.
   (C)   Planting design.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   A carefully conceived planting design will enhance the overall
image of the development and the village setting as it establishes scale
relationships between pedestrians, buildings and open spaces. Planting design
shall address major trees, screen plantings, focal or interest plantings,
groundcovers and shrubs.
         (b)   Long-term maintenance shall also be considered when selecting
plant materials. Trees that are durable, strong branching, hardy, resistant to
disease and tolerant to existing soil conditions shall be used. Tree species
native to the region may be most adaptable.
         (c)   Large deciduous trees can produce shade and add a feeling of
permanence to a development. Such trees shall also be used to:
            1.   Reduce visible building mass;
            2.   Define, accent. or soften architectural elements;
            3.   Define open space and pedestrian/vehicular circulation
systems; and
            4.   Provide for seasonal change.
         (d)   Evergreen trees may be substituted in some cases for deciduous
trees where denser all-year screening is important. Evergreens shall be grouped
sensitively to avoid a spotty or unnatural appearance. Combined deciduous/
evergreen tree groupings shall be considered.
         (e)   Herbaceous plant materials require large planting areas to
result in significant visual impact. If groundcovers are used, they shall be in
well-defined edged planting beds or planters that provide an easy transition to
the surrounding natural conditions of the site. Groundcovers or shrub masses
may also be used on slopes for erosion control or in areas around trees instead
of lawn. In most cases, groundcovers require less maintenance than lawns and
reduce the rate of stormwater runoff.
      (2)   Screening. Use of plant materials for visual screening is important
in retaining the small town rural character desired for the village. Advantages
of using landscaping for screening between sites include:
         (a)   Reducing visual impacts of buildings, parking and loading areas;
         (b)   Reducing transmission of noise, dust and glare; and
         (c)   Establishing a greater sense of privacy, including screening of
window-to-window views between adjacent buildings.
      (3)   Shading. The use of trees for shading of sites is also important to
maintaining and enhancing the country setting of the village. The advantages
include:
         (a)   Trees produce oxygen, reduce carbon dioxides and disperse air
pollutants;
         (b)   Trees transpire considerable quantities of water thereby cooling
ambient air temperature, increasing humidity and reducing stormwater runoff;
         (c)   Trees, through their root systems, stabilize soil and enhance
soil conservation and erosion control;
         (d)   Trees are an invaluable physical, aesthetic and psychological
addition to the built environment;
         (e)   Trees reduce noise levels and glare; and
         (f)   Trees provide habitat for birds and small mammals.
      (4)   Lawn. The front yards and corner side yards of all residential lots
shall be landscaped with lawn or other appropriate vegetation. The vegetation
type chosen shall be consistent throughout a development. Landscaping of
individual lots shall be consistent with a development’s approved landscape
plan. Trees, ground cover and/or prairie plantings shall be considered as
alternatives to lawn wherever practical for the following reasons:
         (a)   Formal planted and maintained lawns lessen the natural
appearance of the village;
         (b)   Lawns require extensive summer watering;
         (c)   Lawns allow a significantly greater rate of stormwater runoff
compared with naturally vegetated areas; and
         (d)   Care of lawns tends to encourage the use of chemicals, including
toxic pesticides and fertilizers which pollute waterways.
      (5)   Special interest plantings. Special interest plant materials are
those which have interesting or unusual flowers, fruits, shape, branching
structure or a combination of these characteristics. These plants may be
deciduous or evergreen. They are usually placed in locations where special
emphasis or accent is desired, i.e., near entrances, in courts and the like.
Formal special interest planting shall be limited to a few locations within a
site so that the visual integrity of a natural landscape is maintained.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1220.jpg]
      (6)   Wetlands mitigation.
         (a)   New wetlands created to mitigate adverse development impacts on
existing wetlands shall be located in areas which will function with a
hydrological regime, soil character and vegetative component capable of
sustaining long-term natural functions. Design objectives shall be established
for mitigation areas which meet or exceed the cumulative values of the replaced
wetlands. Wetland mitigation plans shall be based on accepted current standards
such that the final design has a high probability of meeting design objectives.
All wetlands mitigation design shall conform to the County Watershed
Development Ordinance.
         (b)   Only plant species native to the county shall be used for
mitigation projects. Appropriate site preparation and remedial action
procedures, erosion and sediment control measures and monitoring/management
programs shall be implemented to assure the long-term viability of replacement
wetlands.
         (c)   Vegetated upland buffer zones shall be incorporated into wetland
mitigation plans to help intercept sediment and other surface run-off
pollutants entering wetlands.
      (7)   Stormwater facilities.
         (a)   Stormwater management facilities, including retention/detention
ponds, shall be [missing text].
         (b)   [missing text] features of open space planning. Hard-edged,
steep-sided, deep pit type retention/detention ponds are not allowed, and those
with slopes steeper than five to one are discouraged. All stormwater facilities
design shall conform to the County Watershed Development Ordinance.
         (c)   Pond edge stabilization shall be carefully designed with gentle
slopes and vegetation and minimal use of riprap to appear naturalistic. The use
of formal, round stone or forced edge treatments is not allowed.
         (d)   If ponds with side slopes steeper than five to one are
necessary, buffering or landscape treatment to screen them from adjoining
properties and roads is required. Screening shall comply with the Class “A”
screening requirements of this article. Measurement for such screening shall be
based on the lineal feet of the retention/detention pond perimeter measured at
the high-water elevation.
         (e)   Groundcover and shrub massing may be used as an appropriate
slope treatment. No trees shall be permitted on embankments built from fill.
Fences around ponds are discouraged. If fences are necessary, landscaping shall
be provided on both sides of the fenced area and the fence design shall follow
the requirements of Article 9. The use of safety ledges around the edges of
ponds is encouraged.
      (8)   Scenic corridor easements.
         (a)   The existing natural character of the scenic corridor easements
along the village’s main roads shall be preserved. Stands of native vegetation
shall be preserved and shall not be cultivated, sprayed with chemicals or
disturbed.
         (b)   New plantings shall be provided within scenic easements to
screen adjacent development, especially the rear lots of all residential
developments. Such plantings shall be arranged in an informal, naturalistic
manner to complement the original natural character, rather than in formal,
organized rows.
      (9)   Street trees/parkway planting.
         (a)   Trees shall be planted along all streets within the developed
portions of a development site following the planting unit requirements of §
10-C. Such trees shall be located with the following minimum spacings.
 
Columnar or fastigiate form trees 15 feet
Global or pyramidal form trees    20 feet
Spreading form trees              30 feet
 
         (b)   Trees shall be planted as close as possible to the lateral
center of parkways and medians, a minimum of five feet from curbs. Trees along
local streets with curbs shall be planted a minimum of three feet from the
curbs.
         (c)   Parkway trees shall be a minimum three inches caliper, measured
at breast height and shall be delivered to the site, balled and burlapped. All
street parkway trees shall have a clear trunk, free of branches to a minimum
height of six feet.
         (d)   The following elements shall have the specified minimum widths
to accommodate parkway planting.
 
Parkway (local street with curb) 5 feet
Parkway (planted portion only)   8 feet
Sidewalk with trees in pits      12 feet
Traffic medians                  12 feet
 
         (e)   New trees shall be prohibited within the vicinity of
intersections of streets, alleys and driveways and measured from the edge of
curbs or pavement as follows.
 
Alley, far side                        10 feet
Alley, near side                       20 feet
Driveway (commercial), far side        10 feet
Driveway (commercial), near side       20 feet
Driveway (residential), near/far sides 10 feet
Street (median trees), near/far sides  30 feet
Street, near side                      30 feet
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1222.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1226.jpg]
      (10)   (a)   To protect trees and their root systems, the center of new
parkway trees shall be located no closer than the following distances from
walks, curbs, utilities and other structures in the parkway:
            1.   Buildings:
               a.   Spreading trees: 13 feet;
               b.   Global or pyramidal trees: ten feet; and
               c.   Columnar or fastigiate trees: seven feet.
            2.   Building exits: ten feet;
            3.   Courtesy or carriage walks: three feet;
            4.   Curbs (measured from vertical face): three feet;
            5.   Fire hydrants: five feet;
            6.   Manholes and catchbasins: five feet;
            7.   Pedestrian overpasses and tunnels: 25 feet;
            8.   Sidewalks: two feet;
            9.   Street lights:
               a.   Spreading trees: 15 feet;
               b.   Global or pyramidal trees: 13 feet; and
               c.   Columnar or fastigiate trees: ten feet.
            10.   Trees (existing):
               a.   Spreading trees: 25 feet;
               b.   Global or pyramidal trees: 20 feet; and
               c.   Columnar or fastigiate trees: 15 feet.
            11.   Wall hydrants/standpipes/Siamese connections: ten feet; and
            12.   Other structures (unless directed otherwise): 30 feet.
         (b)   1.   Street trees shall not be planted within bus stops or cab
stands, or where they interfere with overhead signs. They shall also be planted
away from water and sewer lines and be a street tree species that will minimize
root interference with water or sewer lines.
            2.   Street trees shall not be planted where stumps or dead trees
have been removed for a period of two years, unless the stump has been removed
or ground out to a depth of four feet.
         (c)   1.   Surface parking lots shall be located and designed to:
               a.   Include landscaped setbacks between adjacent streets and
driveways;
               b.   Include planted islands or landscaped areas within parking
lots, spaced no further than 100 feet apart;
               c.   Include landscape islands between major driving aisles and
parking areas, especially where islands incorporate significant stands of
existing trees;
               d.   Avoid visual obstructions which would cause internal and
external safety at entrance driveways;
               e.   Prevent vehicle headlights from reaching adjacent buildings
(especially residential buildings) with the use of berms and plantings; and
               f.   Accommodate snow removal storage.
         (d)   The minimum landscaping requirements for parking lots shall be:
            1.   A minimum of 8% of a lot shall be landscaped (this minimum
shall not include landscape areas required to screen the periphery of a lot);
            2.   A minimum landscaped island area of 180 square feet;
            3.   A minimum landscaped island length of 19 feet, measured from
the outside face of the curb and 18 feet, measured from the inside face of the
curb;
            4.   A minimum landscaped island width of ten feet, measured from
the outside face of the curb and nine feet, measured from the inside face of
the curb;
            5.   Each landscaped island shall be planted with a minimum of one
planting unit per island (see § 10-C); and
            6.   Mounding, berming, shrub plantings or a combination thereof
shall be designed and maintained at a height less than three feet within 20
feet of an intersection of streets, driveways and/or drive aisles. Clear lines
of site shall be maintained.
         (e)   Plantings for multiple-bay parking lots may be located in
islands flanking driveway entries, continuous islands parallel to internal
drives, individual islands at ends of parking rows and islands in the corners
of the parking lots. Special landscape treatment to emphasize entrances and
break-up large expanses of paved surfaces is preferred.
         (f)   Plantings for parking lots adjacent streets may be located
adjacent to the required perimeter landscape screening on the street side of
the parking lot, in a way that prevents tree canopies from screening business
signage, yet reinforces the street edge.
         (g)   Preservation of existing trees with a two and one-half inch or
greater diameter at breast height located within the parking lot is encouraged.
If such trees are protected during construction and survive in good health,
they may be counted toward the required planting units for parking lots.
         (h)   The ground plane of parking lot landscaped areas shall be
planted with grass, groundcover or shrubs. Plant species that are capable of
surviving in stressful environments (limited soil volume, high temperature,
compacted soil, poor drainage, salt contamination, pollution and mechanical
damage) shall be used. Groundcoverings, such as gravel mulch, decorative stone,
lava rock, cobbles or organic or similar non-living materials, are not
acceptable. Organic (bark) mulches shall be provided as top dressing/moisture
protection. Islands and medians shall be mounded to improve drainage for
plantings.
         (i)   The required landscaped areas shall be protected from vehicular
encroachment by curbs or other devices. Wheel-stops shall not be allowed since
they tend to trap litter and are easily damaged by snowplows. Trees and shrubs
shall be located so that they are not damaged from the overhang of vehicles
into the required landscape areas.
         (j)   When parking spaces abut a building, the face of the lot’s curb
shall be a minimum of eight feet from the face of the building. If a sidewalk
is used, then the minimum width shall be ten feet. Wider sidewalks with
landscaping and street furniture are encouraged.
         (k)   A minimum width of 30 feet for landscape screening between
parking lots and streets/roads shall be provided. A minimum width of 20 feet
shall also be provided for landscape screening between parking lots. Trees and
hedges in such screening areas shall be subject to the safety and visibility
requirements at driveways and street intersections of Article 11.
         (l)   Trees planted in parking lots shall have the following
characteristics:
            1.   Resistance to extreme temperatures, drought, wind damage, air
pollution, salt, oil pollution and the ability to survive physical damage from
human activity;
            2.   Moderate to rapid rate of growth and long life;
            3.   Tendency to branch high above the ground, with wide spreading
habit and relatively dense foliage for maximum shading; and
            4.   Resistance to pests and plant diseases, little or no pruning
requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1228.jpg]
      (11)   Parking structures. If parking structures are developed, they
shall be landscaped with substantial plantings and berming to significantly
reduce their scale and soften and screen their appearance. The landscape
screening area on all sides of a parking structure shall be a minimum of 15
feet.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 10-C DESIGN METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   Planting units.
      (1)   The use of planting units to guide landscape design allows more
flexibility in the choice of plant materials and encourages use of a greater
variety of plant materials by giving credit for use of shrubs and groundcovers.
Planting unit calculations establish a total quantity of required units, while
allowing the landscape architect flexibility in the allocation and distribution
of those units. Trees that are protected during construction and survive in
good health may be counted toward the required planting units.
      (2)   A planting unit is a measurement used to determine the quantity of
plant materials for screening and shading a site. One planting unit equals:
         (a)   One major deciduous tree (three-inch caliper measured at breast
height);
         (b)   Two minor deciduous trees (two-inch caliper measured at breast
height, unless multi-stem of equal size and form);
         (c)   Two evergreen trees (minimum six feet high);
         (d)   Five shrubs; or
         (e)   Five hundred square feet of groundcover.
   (B)   Single-family detached residential.
      (1)   The minimum landscaping requirements for single-family detached
residential development shall be:
         (a)   One planting unit for every 20 linear feet measured along the
centerline of interior streets and 40 linear feet of adjacent roads/streets. A
minimum of 75% of these planting units shall be major trees;
         (b)   Class “A” screening of each dwelling from views from roads/
streets wherever side or rear lot lines abut right-of-way (the side yard to be
screened is defined as being between the front of the dwelling and the rear lot
line);
         (c)   Class “A” screening with fencing of public and private outdoor
recreation facilities, including, but not limited to, tennis courts, basketball
courts, pools and health clubs;
         (d)   Berming or fencing together with landscaping to reduce road
noise for dwellings located adjacent to the Tollway or an arterial road; and
         (e)   Paved pads for temporary placement of individual homeowners’
trash cans for regular waste pickup are not required to be screened.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (B), CLASS “A” SCREENING is
defined as follows:
         (a)   One planting unit per 15 linear feet of the area to be screened;
         (b)   Plants shall provide a minimum five-foot high, year-round visual
screen at maturity (five years);
         (c)   Minimum height of screen at installation shall be 30 inches; and
         (d)   If fencing is used for screening, plantings shall be provided on
the street side of the fence to enhance the public streetscape.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1230.jpg]
   (C)   Attached and multi-family residential.
      (1)   The minimum landscaping required for attached and multiple-family
residential development shall be the same as those for single-family detached
residential above with the following additions:
         (a)   One planting unit per 12 parking spaces, with a minimum of 75 of
these units to be major trees;
         (b)   Parking lots containing 15 or fewer spaces shall provide a
minimum of 200 square feet of landscaping with at least one planting unit;
         (c)   Class “B” screening of adjacent dissimilar housing types, and
parking lots and parking structures from adjacent public rights-of-way and open
spaces;
         (d)   Class “A” screening including fencing of all external waste
storage/collection areas, with the linear feet of screening for the dumpster
pad measured along the perimeter of the two sides and rear of the pad; and
         (e)   Screening shall be designed and located to not impair sight
distance at intersections.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (C), CLASS “B” SCREENING is
defined as follows:
         (a)   One planting unit per 15 linear feet of the area to be screened;
         (b)   Plants shall provide a minimum three-foot high year-round visual
screen at maturity (five years); and
         (c)   Minimum height of screen at installation shall be 18 inches.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1232.jpg]
   (D)   Nonresidential uses. The minimum landscaping requirements for
nonresidential developments shall be:
      (1)   One planting unit shall be required for every 20 linear feet
measured along the centerline of interior streets and 40 linear feet of
adjacent roads/streets, with a minimum of 50% of these planting units to be
major trees;
      (2)   One planting unit per 12 parking spaces, with a minimum of 75% of
these planting units to be major trees;
      (3)   Parking lots containing 15 or fewer spaces shall provide a minimum
of 200 square feet of landscaping with at least one planting unit;
      (4)   Class “B” screening of parking lots and parking structures on all
sides;
      (5)   Class “A” screening including fencing of adjacent residentially
zoned or used property;
      (6)   Class “A” screening including fencing of all external waste
storage/collection, loading, service and outside storage areas from all
adjacent uses; and
      (7)   Screening shall be designed and located to not impair sight
distances at intersections.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1234.jpg]
   (E)   Sample planting unit tabulations.
Required Planting Units
 Lineal Feet  Lineal Feet/ Planting Unit  Required Planting Units
Required Planting Units
               Lineal Feet     Lineal Feet/                 Required Planting
                                Planting Unit                Units
Adjacent road   _______       / 40            =              ________
Class “A”   _______       / 15            =              ________
screening
Class “B”   _______       / 15            =              ________
screening
Interior road   _______       / 20            =              ________
               Parking space   Per unit      Required units
Parking spaces  _______       / 12 spaces     =              ________
(on grade)
Total required                                               ________
units
Plant materials proposed
 Quantity  Quantity/ Planting Units  Proposed Planting Units
Plant materials proposed
                     Quantity   Quantity/ Planting   Proposed Planting Units
                                 Units
Evergreen trees       _______  / 2                  = ________
Ground cover          _______  / 500 s.f.           = ________
Major deciduous trees _______  / 1                  = ________
Minor deciduous trees _______  / 2                  = ________
Shrubs                _______  / 5                  = ________
Total                                                 ________
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1237.jpg]
 
                      Major     Minor     Evergreen
          Required PU Deciduous Deciduous Trees       Shrubs    Ground Cover
                      Trees     Trees
Lot 1     3           3 (3 pu)  -         -           -         -
Lot 2     3           3 (3 pu)  -         -           -         -
Lot 3     16.5        4 (4 pu)  6 (3 pu)  11 (5.5 pu) 20 (5 pu)
Planting
units     22.5        (10 pu)   (3 pu)    (5.5 pu)    (5 pu)
subtotals
Total
planting  (23.5)
units
provided
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1239.jpg]
             Major     Minor Deciduous
 Required PU Deciduous Trees           Evergreen Trees Shrubs Ground Cover
             Trees
                                Required Major     Minor     Evergreen        Ground
                                PU       Deciduous Deciduous Trees     Shrubs Cover
                                         Trees     Trees
Adjacent resident Class “B” 240/15 =           7 (3.5    15 (7.5   28
screen                          16       5 (5pu)   pu)       pu)       (5.6
                                                                       pu)
Adjacent road                   240/40 = 6 (6 pu)  -         -         -      -
                                6
                                240/15 =                               21
Adjacent road Class “B” scre16       -         8 (4 pu)  16 (8 pu) (4.2   -
                                                                       pu)
                                80/15 =                                25 (5
Dumpster                        5 +      -         -         -         pu)    -
                                fencing
Interior road                   240/20/  6 (6 pu)  -         -         -      -
                                2 = 6
                                140/15 =           3 (1.5              32
Interior road Class “A” scre12       1 (1 pu)  pu)       6 (3 pu)  (6.4   -
                                                                       pu)
Parking                         27/2 = 3 4 (4 pu)  2 (1 pu)  -         -      -
                                60/15 =                                12     800 sf
Parking Class “B” screen    4        -         3(1.5pu)  -         (2.4   (1.6
                                                                       pu)    pu)
Planting units subtotals        68       (22 pu)   (11.5 pu) (18.5 pu) (23.6  (1.6
                                                                       pu)    pu)
Total planting units provided   (77.2)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1241.jpg]
 
                              Required Major     Minor     Evergreen        Ground
                              PU       Deciduous Deciduous Trees     Shrubs Cover
                                       Trees     Trees
Arterial road                 1,600/40 30 (30    -         26 (13    50 (10 -
                              = 40     pu)                 pu)       pu)
Arterial road (corporate      1,600/40 30 (30    14 (7 pu) 14 (7 pu) -      -
drive)                        = 40     pu)
Class “B” screen (parking 910 x 2/ 58 (58    15 (7.5   33 (16.5  120    8,000
lots)                         15 = 121 pu)       pu)       pu)       (24    sf (16
                                                                     pu)    pu)
Parking (x2)                  300 x 2/ 49 (49    -         -         -      -
                              12 = 50  pu)
Planting units subtotals      251      (167 pu)  (15.5 pu) (56.5 pu) (34    (16
                                                                     pu)    pu)
Total planting units provided (269)
 
   (F)   Vacant sites.
      (1)   Land not platted to be developed or vacant land sites awaiting
development shall be left in its existing natural condition and/or cultivated
if in agricultural use. Any portion of a site which has been disturbed by
construction shall be at a minimum seeded with grass.
      (2)   Failure to maintain a site in an acceptable condition will result
in notification to the homeowner by the Planning Director of the infraction.
Owners will have ten working days to complete the work. If the home site is not
properly cleared or maintained then the village will have the work performed at
the expense of the owner.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 10-D RECOMMENDED PLANT MATERIALS.
   (A)   General areas.
      (1)   New landscape planting shall incorporate plants from the village’s
recommended plant materials list listed below. Many of the plants listed are
native to northern Illinois and have been selected based on their hardiness and
adaptability to different landscape situations. Plant materials shall be
carefully selected according to soil moisture, soil type, sun and wind
exposure. Trees marked with an asterisk(*) may be planted with permission from
the Planning Director.
Botanical Name Common Name
Major (Canopy) Trees
Botanical Name                        Common Name
Major (Canopy) Trees
Acer platanoides var.                 Norway Maple
Acer nigrum var.                      Black Maple
Acer rubrum var.                      Red Maple
Acer saccharum var.                   Sugar Maple
Aesculus glabra                       Ohio Buckeye
Celtis occidentalis                   Hackberry
Corylus colurna                       Turkish Filbert
Fraxinus americana var.               White ash
Fraxinus excelsior                    European ash
Fraxinus pennsylvanica var.           Green ash
Fraxinus quadrangulata                Blue ash
Ginkgo biloba (male only)             Maidenhair tree
Gleditsia triacanthos inermis var.    Thornless Honeylocust
Gymnocladus dioicus                   Kentucky Coffeetree
Liriodendron tulipifera               Tulip tree
Ostrya/Virginiana                     Ironwood
Platanus acerifolia                   London Planetree
Pyrus calleryana                      Callery Pear
Quercus bicolor                       Swamp White Oak
Quercus macrocarpa                    Bur Oak
Quercus palustris                     Pin Oak
Quercus robur                         English Oak
Quercus rubra                         Red Oak
Tilia americana                       American Linden
Tilia cordata var.                    Littleleaf Linden
Tilia euchlora “Redmond”          Redmond Linden
Tilia vulgaris                        European Linden
Ulmus americana var.                  American Elm
Ulmus regal                           Regal Elm
Zelkova serrata                       Zelkova
Minor (Midstory) Trees
Acer campestre                        Hedge Maple
Acer ginnala                          Amur Maple
Alnus glutinosa                       European Black Alder
Amelanchier canadensis                Shadblow Serviceberry
Amelanchier grandiflora               Apple Serviceberry
Amelanchier laevis                    Allegheny Serviceberry
Amelanchier sanguinea                 Juneberry
Betula nigra var.                     River Birch
Betula papyrifera                     Paper Birch
Betula platyphylla japonica           Whitespire Birch
Carpinus caroliniana                  American Hornbeam
Cercidiphyllum japonicum              Katsura tree
Cercis canadensis                     Eastern Red Bud
Cornus alternifolia                   Pagoda Dogwood
Crataegus crus-galli inermis          Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn
Crataegus phaenopyrum                 Washington Hawthorn
Crataegus viridis                     Winter King Hawthorn
Fagus sylvatica                       European Beech
Magnolia x loebneri “Merrill”     Merrill Loebner Magnolia
Magnolia soulangeana                  Saucer Magnolia
Magnolia stellata                     Star Magnolia
Malus spp.                            Flowering Crabapple
Syringa reticulata                    Japanese tree Lilac
Unacceptable Trees
Acer Negundo                          Box Elder
Acer Saccharinum*                     Silver Maple
Ailanthus altissima                   Tree-of-Heaven
Catalpa spp.                          Catalpa Species
Elaeagnus angustifolia                Russian Olive
Ginkgo Biloba (female)                Female Ginkgo
Maclura Pomifera                      Osage Orange, Hedge Apple
Malus spp.*                           Apples, Crabapples
Populus spp.*                         Poplars, Cottonwoods, Aspen
Prunus spp.                           Cherries, Plums
Salix spp.*                           Willows
Shrubs
Aronia arbutifolia                    Red Chokeberry
Aronia melanocarpa                    Black Chokeberry
Berberis mentorensis                  Mentor Barberry
Berberis thunbergii atropurpurea nana Dwarf Red Barberry
Berberis thunbergii inermis           Thornless Barberry
Cotoneaster acutifolia                Peking Cotoneaster
Cotoneaster apiculatus                Cranberry Cotoneaster
Cotoneaster adpressa                  Creeping Cotoneaster
Cotoneaster divaricata                Spreading Cotoneaster
Cotoneaster multiflorus               Many Colored Cotoneaster
Cornus mas                            Cornelian Cherry Dogwood
Cornus racemosa                       Gray Dogwood
Cornus stolonifera                    Red twig Dogwood
Cornus stolonifera flaviramea         Yellow twig Dogwood
Cornus stolonifera kelseyi            Dwarf Red Dogwood
Euonymus alatus                       Burning Bush
Forsythia Bronxensis                  Arnold Dwarf Forsythia
Forsythia viridissima                 Dwarf Forsythia
Hypericum kalmianum                   Kalm’s St. John’s Wort
Ligustrum amurense                    Amur Privet
Ligustrum lodense                     Lodense Privet
Ligustrum obt. regelianum             Regels Privet
Lonicera xylosteoides                 Clavey’s Dwarf Honeysuckle
Myrica pennsylvanica                  Bayberry
Potentilla                            Goldfinger Portentilla
Potentilla fruticosa                  Jackman’s Bush Cinquefoil
Phyocarpus opulifolius nana           Dwarf Ninebark
Ribes alpinum                         Alpine Current
Ribes alpinum “Green Mound”       Green Mound Alpine Currant
Rhus aromatica                        Fragrant Sumac
Rhus typhina                          Cut-leaf Sumac
Spiraea bumalda “Froebelii”       Froebels Spirea
Spiraea japonica alpina               Alpine Spirea
Spiraea nipponica                     Snowmound Spirea
Stephanandra incisa                   Laceshrub
Syringa palibin na                    Dwarf Korean Lilac
Syringa chinensis                     Chinese Lilac
Viburnum burkwoodii                   Burkwood Viburnum
Viburnum carlesii                     Koreanspice Viburnum
Viburnum dentatum                     Arrowwood Viburnum
Viburnum lantana                      Wayfaringtree Viburnum
Viburnum lentago                      Nannyberry Viburnum
Viburnum opulus compactum             Compact European Cranberrybush
Viburnum prunifolium                  Blackhaw Viburnum
Viburnum sieboldii                    Siebold Viburnum
Viburnum tomentosum                   Double File Viburnum
Viburnum trilobum compacta            American Cranberrybush
Viburnum trilobum hahs                Hahs Viburnum
Evergreen Trees
Abies concolor                        White Fir
Picea abies                           Norway Spruce
Picea glauca densata                  Black Hills Spruce
Picea pungens                         Colorado Green Spruce
Picea pungens glauca                  Colorado Blue Spruce
Pinus nigra                           Austrian Pine
Pinus resinosa                        Red Pine
Pinus strobus                         White Pine
Pinus thunbergii                      Japanese Black Pine
Pseudotsuga menziesii                 Douglass Fir
Pseudotsuga menziesii glauca          Blue Douglass Fir
Tsuga canadensis                      Canadian Hemlock
Evergreen Shrubs
Juniperus chinensis                   Kallay Compact Juniper
Juniperus chinensis                   Blue Sargent Juniper
Juniperus horizontalis                Blue Rug Juniper
Juniperus japonica                    Japanese Juniper
Juniperus sabina                      Buffalo Savin Juniper
Pinus mugo                            Mugo Pine
Taxus media “Densiformis”         Dense Yew
Taxus media “Hatfieldii”          Hatfield Yew
Taxus media “Hicksii”             Hick’s Yew
Taxus media “Nigra”               Nigra Yew
Thuja occidentalis “Nigra”        Dark Green Arborvitae
Thuja occidentalis “Techny”       Mission Arborvitae
Broadleaf Evergreen Shrubs
Azalea “Northern Lights”          Northern Lights Azalea
Buxus microphylla                     Korean Boxwood
Euonymus Vegetus                      Bigleaf Wintercreeper
Ilex rugosa                           Blue Girl Holly
Ilex verticillata                     Winterberry
Mahonia aquifolium                    Oregongrape Holly
Rhododendron P.J.M.                   P.J.M. Rhododendron
Yucca filamentosa                     Adam’s Needle
Yucca glauca                          Blue Yucca
Groundcovers and Vines
Ajuga reptans                         Bugleweed
Euonymus fortunei “coloratus”     Purple Leaf Wintercreeper
Hedera helix                          Bulgarian Ivy
Lamiastrum galeobdolon luteum         Yellow Archangel
Pachysandra terminalis                Japanese Spurge
Parthenocissus quinquefolia           Virginia Creeper
Parthenocissus tricuspidata           Boston Ivy
Polemonium reptans                    Jacobs Ladder
Polygonum reynoutria                  Dwarf Japanese Fleeceflower
Rhus aromatic “Gro-low”           Gro-low Sumac
Vinca minor “Bowles”              Bowles periwinkle
 
      (2)   The above deciduous tree species are acceptable for planting in
parkways, parks, plazas and yards within the village. The varieties (var.) of a
given species generally have straighter trunks, more symmetrical crowns, better
flowering or fall color, resistance to disease or insect infestations and the
like. The selection of trees is subject to the review of the Planning Director
for specific locations.
   (B)   Special areas.
      (1)   To ensure that proper steps are used to preserve and enhance the
diversity of vegetative communities in the village area, Native Plant
Communities Lists have also been selected for reclamation, restoration,
mitigation and special landscape projects. (See the appendix to this appendix.)
These lists are divided into four plant community types:
         (a)   Woodlands;
         (b)   Savannas;
         (c)   Tall grass prairie;
         (d)   Floodplain; and
         (e)   Wetlands.
      (2)   Each plant community list represents flora native to Northern Lake
County that once may have occurred together naturally.
      (3)   These lists may also serve as guides for general landscaping in the
village for homes, retail complexes, office/commercial developments, community
facilities, schools and parks and water features. Project owners are advised to
seek advice from a certified nurseryman, the cooperative extension service of
the University of Illinois, a registered landscape architect or an experienced
landscape contractor when selecting plants.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 10-E PLANT INSTALLATION.
   To ensure installation of plants that will thrive, certain installation
procedures shall be followed. The standards listed below will help prevent the
planting of trees that become hazards, maintenance problems or a blight on the
landscape.
   (A)   Plant quality.
      (1)   Plants shall meet the standards of American Standard for Nursery
Stock, ANSI Z60.1-1986, American Association of Nurserymen, which by reference
is made a part of this code. References to minima and maxima with respect to
plant height and spread, rootball diameter and depth and the like are from
publication ANSI Z60.1-1986.
      (2)   Plants shall meet all requirements of federal, state and local law
with respect to plant type, labeling, nursery or plant inspection, disease,
insect and other pest infestation, and any other requirements.
      (3)   Plants shall be high quality nursery grown stock. “Park grade”
plants are not acceptable. Field collected plants are not acceptable, even if
they have been subsequently planted in the ground in a nursery or planted in a
container.
      (4)   Plants shall have been grown in a climate zone similar to
Northeastern Illinois, i.e., United States Department of Agriculture (USDA)
Zone 4 or 5.
      (5)   Plants shall be in a healthy, vigorous condition, free of dead or
broken branches, scars that are not completely healed, frost cracks,
disfiguring knots, broken or abraded bark, redundant leaders or branches,
rubbing branches or aberrations of any kind. Plants shall not have multiple
leaders, unless this is the natural form.
   (B)   Digging/handling.
      (1)   Balled and burlapped (B&B) plants shall be dug with a firm rootball
of natural earth, of a size in proportion to the plant’s size, as measured by
caliper, height or spread. Balled and burlapped plants shall be handled only by
the rootball, not by the trunk or branches, to avoid breaking or loosing the
rootball and damaging the root system.
      (2)   Container plants shall have been established for a minimum of one
full growing season in their containers before installation. Such plants shall
be handled only by the container, not by the stems or branches, to avoid
breaking or loosening the rootball and damaging the root system.
      (3)   Bare root shrubs and groundcover plants are acceptable, if they are
dug and installed at the appropriate season and handled in the appropriate
manner. Bare root trees are not acceptable.
      (4)   Plants shall be protected from drying out during shipping with
tarpaulins or other covering. Plants shall be protected from drying out after
delivery by planting immediately. If this is not possible, the rootball shall
be covered with peat moss, mulch or earth and watered frequently to keep it
moist until planting.
   (C)   Tree planting. The trees recommended for use in the village have
minimal maintenance requirements. However, all trees must receive a certain
degree of care, especially during and immediately after planting. To protect
new trees, developers and property owners shall ensure that the following
guidelines are followed.
      (1)   Planting shall be done in early spring and early fall or other
appropriate times for each species. Trees planted in the summer run the risk of
dehydration.
      (2)   Tree pits shall be dug at least one foot wider than the rootball
and at least six inches deeper than the ball’s vertical dimension. The pits
shall have a minimum area of 36 square feet.
      (3)   In areas where construction activity has compacted the soil, pit
bottoms shall be scarified or loosened with a pickax or shovel.
      (4)   After pits are dug, subsurface drainage conditions shall be
observed. Where poor drainage exists, the tree pit shall be dug at least an
additional 12 inches and the bottom should be filled with coarse gravel and a
drainpipe/inspection pipe (where appropriate).
      (5)   Backfill shall include a proper mix of soil, peat moss and
nutrients. All roots shall be completely covered. Backfill shall be thoroughly
watered.
      (6)   Immediately after planting, trees under five inches caliper shall
be supported with stakes and guy wires to hold them firmly in place as the root
system begins to develop. Stakes and ties shall be removed after one year.
      (7)   At least three inches of mulch shall be spread over the entire
excavation to retain moisture and discourage weeds. An additional three-inch-
deep saucer of mulch shall be provided to form a basin around the trunk of the
tree. This saucer helps catch and retain moisture.
      (8)   The lower trunks of new trees shall be wrapped with burlap or paper
to prevent evaporation and sun scald. The wrapping should remain on the tree
for at least one year. Newly planted trees shall be sprayed with an anti-
desiccant prior to site delivery and immediately after installation to prevent
excessive moisture loss.
      (9)   Watering and pruning is required for street and parking lot trees
after planting. Branches of newly planted trees may be reduced by as much as
one-third to prevent or compensate for root loss.
      (10)   A pervious area of 36 square feet with a minimum diametrical
dimension of six feet shall be required for each major, minor or evergreen
tree. A landscape modification will be required for any required trees planted
in tree grates with a minimum dimension less than six feet.
   (D)   Maintenance. All trees and landscaping shall be carefully maintained.
Property owners shall water and fertilize all installed trees for a minimum
period of two years following their initial planting. After this two-year
period, the village will assume responsibility for maintaining street/road
parkway trees and vegetation in the scenic easements. Landscaping planting on
private property shall be maintained by the owner of the landscaped areas and
shall include weeding, mulching, mowing, edging, reseeding, plant replacement,
pruning, fertilization, pest and insect control and watering. Where
appropriate, the village will issue permits for the annual burning of prairie
or savannah restoration areas.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 10-F VEGETATION RETENTION/PROTECTION.
   (A)   Vegetation retention. Every development shall retain existing high
quality native vegetation, including native prairie, and trees six inches in
caliper or more and in good health, unless the retention of such vegetation
would unreasonably burden the development No impervious surface shall be placed
or excavation or other subsurface disturbance may be undertaken within the drip
line of any existing tree six inches in caliper or more to be retained unless
special design considerations are taken and approved by the Planning Director.
   (B)   Vegetation protection. To ensure the survival of existing vegetation
to be retained during construction, developers and property owners shall ensure
the following guidelines are followed.
      (1)   Vegetation protection areas, as designated by field staking, shall
be protected by colored snow/wind screen fencing. Fencing shall be four feet
high, supported by eight feet steel posts driven a minimum of three feet into
the ground. Steel posts shall be placed no further than ten feet on center,
erected straight and plumb, with concrete footings at every fifth post.
Vegetation protection fences shall be installed prior to any clearing, grubbing
or demolition. Depending on the scale and complexity of any given project, the
Planning Director may require galvanized chain-link fencing to be substituted
for the colored snow/wind screen fencing.
      (2)   Root pruning of trees shall be performed as necessary during site
preparation work where excavation is to occur near the trees. The roots shall
be pruned to depths of the site preparation excavation, taking care to obtain
clean root cuts perpendicular to the direction of growth, on the tree side of
the excavation.
      (3)   Fires or other sources of extreme heat shall be kept clear of
existing trees.
      (4)   Damaged tree roots and branches shall be repaired immediately.
Severed limbs and roots should be painted. Exposed roots should be covered with
topsoil. Whenever tree roots are destroyed, a proportional amount of branches
must be pruned so the tree doesn’t transpire more water than it takes in.
Injured trees must be thoroughly watered during the ensuing growing year.
      (5)   All existing trees that will be surrounded by paving should be
pruned to prevent dehydration.
   (C)   Vegetation removal.
      (1)   Trees which are to be transplanted to temporary storage areas shall
be noted on the landscape plan. Methods used to remove, move and transplant
shall minimize any damage to the trees. Trees which are damaged in the
transplanting process shall be replaced with new trees of the same species
caliper and height.
      (2)   Only vegetation which is in areas directly impacted by construction
shall be removed by the contractor. All vegetation to be removed on a site
shall be removed in a manner that will minimize damage to the remaining
vegetation to be protected. Any trees that remain that are damaged during the
clearing operation shall be repaired in an approved manner by a tree expert as
soon as the damage occurs.
      (3)   If space that would otherwise be devoted to parking cannot be so
used because of the vegetation retention requirements of this article, and, as
a result, the parking requirements set forth in Article 13, cannot be
satisfied, the number of required spaces may be reduced by the number of spaces
“lost” because of the provisions of this division (C), up to a maximum of 5% of
the required spaces.
      (4)   Specimen trees adjacent to construction areas and in other key
locations shall be identified by the developer and marked with red tags. Loss
of any of these trees will result in fines assessed at $500 per inch of
diameter of the tree. Damage to all other trees on the property will be
assessed at the rate of $200 per inch of diameter of the tree.
      (5)   If any penetration(s) of the vegetation protection fencing is
caused by the developer or his or her contractor, a fine of $1,000 for each
instance will be assessed together with the repair of the fence. All damages to
trees and other vegetation will be assessed to the developer in accordance with
the publication Guide for Establishing Values of Trees and Other Plants as
published by the International Society of Arboriculturists.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 10-G STANDARDS MODIFICATION.
   (A)   The village’s landscape standards are intended to foster creative
planting solutions. Conditions may arise where full compliance is impractical
or impossible, or where maximum achievement of the village’s objectives cannot
be obtained.
   (B)   Upon written request, modification of these standards may be permitted
by the Planning Director where the modification more fully achieves the
objectives contained herein and when one or more of the following site
conditions justify the modification:
      (1)   Small and/or irregularly shaped lots;
      (2)   Special topographic, soil wetland or other natural features; and/or
      (3)   Alternative or special construction methods, techniques and
materials are more beneficial to the environment than those required by these
standards.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 11. STREET/SIDEWALK STANDARDS
§ 11-A STREET CLASSIFICATION.
   The classification of all streets within the village shall be as follows.
   (A)   Major arterial.
      (1)   A major street in the village’s overall area road network that
serves as an avenue for the circulation of traffic into, out of or around the
village. Such streets are intended to carry high volumes of traffic, including
traffic traveling around the village to adjacent municipalities or to the
Tollway.
      (2)   Major arterial streets shall include the following:
         (a)   Rosecrans Road (State Route 173);
         (b)   U.S. Route 45;
         (c)   Grand Avenue (State Route 132);
         (d)   Wadsworth Road (east of Corporate Drive);
         (e)   Hunt Club Road (north of Corporate Drive);
         (f)   Crawford Road (north of Corporate Drive); and
         (g)   Corporate Drive (a four-lane public street with a median and
dedicated right-of-way of 120 feet).
   (B)   Minor arterial.
      (1)   A minor street in the village’s overall road network that serves as
an avenue for the circulation of traffic into, out of or within the village.
Such streets are not intended to accommodate traffic that is not oriented
toward the village or cut-through traffic. Minor arterials carry less traffic
than major arterials.
      (2)   Minor arterial streets within the village shall include the
following:
         (a)   Wadsworth Road (west of Corporate Drive);
         (b)   Hunt Club Road (south of Corporate Drive);
         (c)   Crawford Road (south of Corporate Drive);
         (d)   Millburn Road; and
         (e)   Kelley Road.
   (C)   Collector. A street whose principal function is to carry traffic
between local and subcollector streets and arterial streets but that in special
cases may also provide direct access to abutting properties: it serves or is
designed to serve, directly or indirectly, more than 100 dwelling units and is
designed to be used or is used to carry more than 1,000 trips per day.
   (D)   Subcollector. A street whose principal function is to provide access
to abutting properties but is also designed to be used or is used to connect
local streets with collector or arterial streets. Including residences
indirectly served through connecting streets, it serves or is designed to not
more than 100 dwelling units and is expected to or does handle between 800 and
1,000 trips per day.
   (E)   Local. A street whose sole function is to provide access to abutting
properties. It serves or is designed to serve no more than 25 dwelling units
and is expected to or does handle up to 200 trips per day. A local street that
terminates in a vehicular turnaround is a cul-de-sac. Changes to these streets
shall consider the general recommendations for improvements as provided in the
village’s Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-B LOT ACCESS.
   (A)   Every lot shall have access to it that is sufficient to afford a
reasonable means of ingress and egress for emergency vehicles as well as for
other vehicles which need to access the property for its intended use.
   (B)   Driveway access, except for schools and parks, shall be minimized
along collector streets. Where practical, front yards shall not front onto
collector streets.
   (C)   The access system of all corporate and retail developments shall be
coordinated with the existing, proposed and anticipated access drives of other
corporate and retail users outside the development site. All individual retail
developments shall be allowed access to adjacent retail developments and
residential subdivisions to facilitate traffic movement between stores and to
minimize traffic on arterial streets.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-C STREET ENTRANCES.
   All driveway entrances and other openings onto streets within the village
shall be designed so that vehicles can enter/exit a site or lot without any
substantial danger to pedestrians or vehicles traveling on abutting streets.
Interference with the free and convenient flow of traffic on abutting or
surrounding streets shall be minimized. All access onto county highways shall
follow the regulations of the County Highway Access Ordinance. Design standards
for driveway entrances are as follows although subject to modification for
acceleration and deceleration lanes and other safety features.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1243.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1245.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-D STREET COORDINATION.
   (A)   The street system of a residential development shall be coordinated
with existing, proposed and anticipated streets outside the development.
Collector streets shall intersect with surrounding collector or arterial
streets at safe and convenient locations. These intersections shall be
coordinated where practical with traffic control systems along major arterial
streets.
   (B)   (1)   Local, subcollector and collector streets shall connect with
surrounding streets to permit the convenient movement of traffic between
residential neighborhoods, between retail areas and neighborhoods or to
facilitate access by emergency service vehicles or for other sufficient
reasons.
      (2)   Whenever connections to anticipated or proposed surrounding
streets, the street right-of-way shall be extended and the street developed to
the property line of the property or to the edge of the remaining undeveloped
portion of a single tract at the point where the connection to the anticipated
or proposed street is expected. In addition, temporary culs-de-sac may be
required to be constructed at the end of such streets pending their extension
when such turnarounds appear necessary to facilitate the flow of traffic or
accommodate emergency vehicles.
      (3)   No temporary dead-end street in excess of 800 feet may be created
unless no other practical alternative is available.
   (C)   Where appropriate, the historical and rural character of the village’s
original road network shall be preserved (as existing on the date the village’s
Comprehensive Plan was adopted).
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-E STREET/TOPOGRAPHY RELATIONSHIP.
   (A)   Streets shall be located and aligned to minimize impacts on the
topography of the site and adjacent properties. Streets shall be designed to
facilitate the stormwater requirements set forth in Article 8. Street grades
shall conform as closely as practical to the original topography, with safe
vertical and horizontal sight distances provided. Minimal grading shall be
done.
   (B)   The maximum grade at any point on a street constructed without curb
and gutter shall be 6% with a minimum grade of 0.5%. On streets constructed
with curb and gutter the grade shall not exceed 6% unless no other practical
alternative is available. However, in no case may streets be constructed with
grades that shall create a substantial danger to the public safety.
   (C)   Streets shall also relate appropriately to other site features such as
existing trees and special views and minimize their impact on existing
vegetation.
   (D)   Cut and fill slopes on any street right-of-way may not exceed 3:1.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-F STREET AND SIDEWALK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Design objectives. Street rights-of-way are to be designed to carry
vehicular traffic, in some cases, allow on-street parking, provide for a safe
and convenient passage of pedestrians and bicyclists and serve as an important
element of the village’s drainage system. To fulfill these objectives, all
public streets shall be constructed to meet the standards set forth in this
section.
   (B)   Street classifications.
      (1)   Collector, subcollector and local streets in residential
developments in the RR District, the R-1 District and the R-2 District are not
to be required to have curb and gutter. Curb and gutter are required for
residential developments in the R-3 District and the R-8 District and for any
cluster residential developments within the village with lot sizes of 7,500
square feet or less.
      (2)   The following street types may be constructed with six-foot-wide
shoulders and drainage swales on either side in lieu of curb and gutter, so
long as the street grade does not exceed a grade of 6% with a minimum slope of
0.5%. Such streets shall be constructed as follows.
 
Street Type  Minimum Right-of-Way Minimum Pavement Width  Minimum Structural
             Width (in feet)      (in feet)               Number
Collector    60                   26                      3.5
Local        50                   18                      3
Subcollector 55                   20                      3
 
      (3)   Standard barrier curb and gutter may be used. Street pavement width
shall be measured from curb face to curb face where curb or curb and gutter is
used.
 
Street Type  Minimum Right-of-Way Minimum Pavement Width  Minimum Structural
             Width (in feet)      (in feet)               Number
Alley        20                   20                      3
Collector    60                   32                      3.5
Local        40                   24                      3
Subcollector 50                   26                      3
 
   (C)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks may be required on both sides of all collector streets,
taking into account adjacent uses, location of community facilities and
direction of pedestrian movement. Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of
all subcollector and local streets in the R-8 District and in cluster
developments with lot sizes of 5,000 square feet or less. Sidewalks shall be
required on one side of the street for all subcollector and local streets in
the RR District, the R-1 District and the R-2 District.
      (2)   Collector, subcollector and local streets can have a walkway or
pathway constructed with suitable materials in lieu of a sidewalk in the RR
District, the R-1 District and the R-2 District. Alleys are not required to
have a sidewalk.
      (3)   All sidewalk/walkways within the village must be located to provide
interconnected pedestrian circulation within each development site and to
adjacent existing and future developments.
      (4)   The sidewalks required by this section shall be concrete and five
feet in width, except that the Plan Commission may permit the installation of
walkways constructed with other suitable materials when it concludes that:
         (a)   Such walkways would serve the residents of the development as
adequately as concrete sidewalks; and
         (b)   Such walkways would be more environmentally desirable or in
keeping with the overall design of the development.
      (5)   Whenever the Plan Commission finds that a means of pedestrian
access is necessary from the development to schools, parks, playgrounds or
other roads or facilities and that such access is not conveniently, provided by
sidewalks adjacent to the streets, the developer may be required to reserve an
unobstructed easement of at least 15 feet in width to provide such access.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-G STREET LAYOUT.
   (A)   (1)   All residential streets shall be planned to promote an easy
understanding of street systems by motorists and pedestrians.
      (2)   To facilitate the free flow of traffic and avoid traffic hazards
there shall be no driveway access to collector streets except for schools and
parks, and no driveway access to arterial streets, except for schools,
community parks and retail sites.
   (B)   (1)   All permanent dead-end streets (as opposed to temporary dead-end
streets) shall be developed as culs-de-sac in accordance with the standards set
forth below.
      (2)   Except where no other practical alternative is available, such
streets may not extend more than 800 feet (measured to the center of the
turnaround) nor have more than 20 houses.
      (3)   A cul-de-sac greater in length than 800 feet will be allowed in the
RR District provided that no more than ten houses are located on it.
   (C)   (1)   The right-of-way of a cul-de-sac shall have a radius of 60 feet.
      (2)   The radius of the paved portion of the turnaround (measured to the
outer edge of the pavement) shall be 35 feet, and the pavement width shall be
12 feet without curb and gutter or 15 feet with curb and gutter.
      (3)   The unpaved center of the turnaround area shall be landscaped.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1247.jpg]
   (D)   Half streets (streets of less than the full required right-of-way and
pavement width) shall not be permitted.
   (E)   Streets shall be laid out so that residential blocks do not exceed
1,000 feet, unless no other practical alternative is available.
   (F)   In small town residential developments and other developments which
warrant their use, alleys shall be located so that they abut the side or rear
of the lots.
   (G)   Alleys shall be provided for off-street loading/unloading in all
retail developments.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-H STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, and no
two streets may intersect at less than 75 degrees. Not more than two streets
shall intersect at any one point.
   (B)   Whenever possible, proposed intersections along one side of a street
shall coincide with existing or proposed intersections on the opposite side of
such street. Where a centerline offset occurs at an intersection, the distance
between centerlines of the intersecting streets shall be not less than 150
feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1249.jpg]
   (C)   (1)   Except when no other alternative is practical or legally
possible, no two streets may intersect with any other street on the same side
at a distance of less than 300 feet measured from centerline to centerline of
the intersecting street. street is an arterial, the distance between
intersecting streets shall be at least 1,000 feet.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-I DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Design speed, sight distances and centerline radius shall be as
follows.
 
                                         Local    Sub-Collector Collector
Design speed                             25 mph   30 mph        35 mph
Minimum centerline radius                125 feet 200 feet      250 feet
Minimum sight distance on vertical curve 150 feet 200 feet      200 feet
 
   (B)   Sight distances at intersections shall be as follows.
      (1)   At no-stop intersections, the intersection shall be constructed so
that a person standing at a location on the centerline of any street extending
90 feet from the intersection of the street centerlines has an unobstructed
view to a point located on the centerline of the intersecting street 90 feet
(in either direction) from the intersection of the street centerlines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1251.jpg]
      (2)   At stop intersections, the intersection shall be constructed so
that a person standing ten feet back of the intersection of right-of-way lines
on the stop street has an unobstructed view to a point on the right-of-way line
of the intersecting through street located 70 feet from the intersection of the
right-of-way lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1253.jpg]
      (3)   At stop intersections where a residential street intersects with an
arterial street, the intersection shall be constructed so that a person
standing 30 feet back of the intersection of right-of-way lines on the stop
street has an unobstructed view to a point on the centerline of the through
street located 150 feet from the intersection of the street right-of-way lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1255.jpg]
   (C)   At street intersections, the intersections of the paved surfaces shall
be rounded with a minimum radius as indicated below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1257.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1259.jpg]
   (D)   Streets shall be constructed and utilities located as follows.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1261.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1263.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1265.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1267.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1269.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1273.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1271.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2009-0-6, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 11-J CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Right-of-way clearing. Clearing and grubbing shall be performed within
the limits shown on the final engineering plans. All timber, brush, roots,
stumps, trees or other vegetation cut during the clearing operations shall
become the contractor’s responsibility to dispose of and shall be either
removed from the site or satisfactorily disposed of on-site. Mature strands of
quality vegetation in the right-of-way shall be preserved wherever possible.
See Article 10.
   (B)   Street construction.
      (1)   Streets shall be graded in accordance with the lines and grade set
by the project engineer. Before placing curb and gutter or base on the graded
subgrade, the subgrade shall be compacted to 98% AASTHO T99 for a depth of six
inches and then shall be proof rolled in the presence of the engineer. Places
that are found to be loose, or soft, or composed of unsuitable materials,
whether in the subgrade or below it, must be dug out and refilled with suitable
material. All embankments or fills shall be made in eight-inch vertical lifts
of suitable material. The fill shall be compacted with appropriate equipment
after each lift.
      (2)   Base course for streets shall be a minimum of eight inches thick
and shall be crushed stone conforming to I.D.O.T. Type A stone. The stone base
course shall be placed in four-inch layers, watered as necessary and compacted
to 100% AASTHO T99. The contractor shall be responsible for keeping the stone
base free of contamination from clay or other foreign materials. Handling and
placement of stone base shall be in accordance with I.D.O.T. specifications.
      (3)   The asphalt surface course shall meet I.D.O.T. specifications for
Type I-2 asphalt. The asphalt shall be placed in layers and shall be handled
and placed in accordance with I.D.O.T specifications.
      (4)   All streets are to be constructed on a subgrade with a minimum
I.B.R. of three. Where soil conditions exist that result in a lower I.B.R.
value the existing soil shall be removed and replaced with approved granular
material and/or a pavement fabric. A proposed pavement section and method of
soil improvement shall be submitted to the village for approval.
   (C)   Curb and gutter construction.
      (1)   Combination curbs and gutters shall be constructed on both sides of
street pavements. Two No. 4 reinforcing bars shall be placed continuously
between expansion joints. Expansion joints shall be doweled and spaced no more
than 45 feet on center and at tangent points of all radii. Control joints shall
be provided at 15-foot intervals on center and shall consist of an actual saw
cut at least one and one-half inches deep.
      (2)   Unless otherwise directed by the village pursuant to I.D.O.T.
Standards, a barrier curb shall be provided on collector streets. The village
may approve the installation of mountable curbs in cases where future driveway
locations cannot be precisely determined at the time of construction. In all
cases, depressed curb sections shall be provided at all driveways whose
locations are known at the time of curb installation. Depressed curbs shall
also be provided at all sidewalk crossings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1275.jpg]
   (D)   Sidewalk construction.
      (1)   Concrete sidewalks shall be constructed as required in § 11-G. Such
sidewalks shall have a minimum width of five feet and a minimum thickness of
five inches, with a three-inch-thick stone base (CA-6), except the sidewalk
thickness shall be six inches where passing across an existing or proposed
driveway. The longitudinal slope of sidewalks and pedestrian paths shall not
exceed a 5% grade.
      (2)   All materials shall meet the requirements of the Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction, latest edition. Concrete sidewalks shall be Class
X concrete, 5% to 8% air-entrained, shall have a slump of not less than two
inches nor more than four inches and a minimum 28-day compressive strength of
4,000 psi.
      (3)   If organic material is present at the proposed subgrade, it shall
be removed and replaced with compacted crushed aggregate. Excavation shall
include trimming or removal of all trees, roots and brush that interfere with
the installation of the sidewalk.
      (4)   When necessary to construct sidewalk on fill, the fill shall be
placed in six-inch lifts, thoroughly compacted. A level shoulder shall extend
one foot beyond each edge of the walk. Side slopes shall not be steeper than 4:
1 except as approved by the village.
      (5)   If material has been excavated below the subgrade, it shall be
replaced with gravel or crushed stone. The subgrade shall then be tamped or
rolled until thoroughly compacted.
      (6)   When the subgrade has been finished and no later than 24 hours
prior to placing concrete, the contractor shall notify the village that the
subgrade is ready for inspection. No concrete shall be placed until the
subgrade has been inspected and approved.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-K STORMWATER CONTROL.
   (A)   The minimum design frequency for storm runoff shall be ten years for
storm sewer collection and 25 years for cross-drainage (i.e., drainage
facilities crossing a street).
   (B)   All storm drainage pipe shall be reinforced concrete and no pipe shall
be smaller than 12 inches in diameter except as approved by the village.
Culvert outlet protection and swale erosion protection shall be designed based
on a ten-year storm. Road shoulders, swales, back-of-curbs and cut and fill
banks shall be completely dressed up by the contractor and seeded as soon as
possible.
   (C)   All storm drainage structures and pipes shall be designed and
constructed as follows.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1277.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1279.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1281.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-L PRIVATE ROADS/STREETS.
   (A)   Sites may be developed with private streets if they meet the public
street and sidewalk standards of this article and the developer demonstrates to
the reasonable satisfaction of the village that the private roads will be
properly maintained. Corporate Drive, when developed, shall be dedicated to the
village and may not be a private street.
   (B)   No final plan that shows lots served by private streets may be
recorded unless the final plan contains the following notations.
      (1)   “Further subdivision of any lot shown on this plat as served by a
private road may be prohibited by this code.”
      (2)   “If the village improves streets that were never constructed to the
standards of this article, and on which 75% of the dwelling units were
constructed after the effective date of this article, then 100% of the costs of
such improvements shall be assessed to abutting landowners.”
   (C)   The recorded plat of any development that includes a private road
shall clearly state that such road is a private road. Further, the initial
purchaser of a newly created lot served by a private road shall be furnished by
the seller with a disclosure statement outlining the maintenance
responsibilities for the road as established by the village.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-M HANDICAPPED REQUIREMENTS.
   Whenever curb and gutter construction is used on public or private streets
and sidewalks are provided, wheelchair ramps for the handicapped shall be
provided at intersections and other major points of pedestrian flow. Wheelchair
ramps and depressed curbs shall be constructed in accordance with published
standards of the State Accessibility Code and the Americans with Disabilities
Act, whichever is more stringent.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1283.jpg] 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1285.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-N STREET NAMES/HOUSE NUMBERS.
   (A)   Street names shall be assigned by the developer subject to the
approval of the Planning Director. Proposed streets that are obviously in
alignment with existing streets shall be given the same name.
   (B)   Newly created streets shall be given names that neither duplicate nor
are phonetically similar to existing streets within the village’s planning
jurisdiction, regardless of the use of different suffixes, i.e., circle, court
and the like. Building numbers shall be assigned by the village.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-O BRIDGES.
   All bridges shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the State Department of Transportation, except that bridges
on roads not intended for public dedication may be approved if designed by a
licensed engineer.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-P UTILITIES.
   Utilities installed in public rights-of-way or along private roads shall
conform to the requirements set forth in Article 12.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 11-Q SCENIC CORRIDOR EASEMENTS.
   (A)   On each side of all major and minor arterial roads, located adjacent
or within the village a corridor of undeveloped land shall be preserved for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To reduce traffic noise impact on adjacent residences;
      (2)   To protect and maintain the village’s country character;
      (3)   To provide wide, natural areas for drainage;
      (4)   To provide refuge for wildlife;
      (5)   To increase native trees and prairie plantings; and
      (6)   To form a natural buffer between developed areas on opposite sides
of the road.
   (B)   Scenic corridor easements shall be dedicated on the final plan to the
village and shall be maintained as natural areas.
   (C)   Where there is no significant vegetation, scenic corridors shall be
planted with native trees, wild flowers and/or prairie grasses following the
village’s landscape standards.
   (D)   No building or site improvements other than signs, bicycle paths,
landscaping and improved underground utilities shall be allowed in a scenic
corridor easement.
   (E)   The dimensions for all scenic corridors shall be as follows.
      (1)   A 250-foot easement measured from each side of the centerline of
major arterial streets and the Tollway except along properties zoned community
retail, business park or the portion of the Special Retail District located in
the Historic Millburn Area being within the following distances from the center
of the intersection of Millburn and U.S. Route 45 as it is so located in 2015:
north 2,100 feet, east 500 feet, south 2,500 feet and west 1,200 feet.
      (2)   A 150-foot easement measured from each side of the centerline of
minor arterial streets except along properties zoned Community Retail, Business
Park or the portion of the Special Retail District located in the Historic
Millburn Area being within the following distances from the center of the
intersection of Millburn and U.S. Route 45 as it is so located in 2015: north
2,100 feet, east 500 feet, south 2,500 feet and west 1,200 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1287.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 2015-0-4,
passed 11-2-2015)
§ 11-R PARKING/LOADING AREAS.
   (A)   All surfaces to be used for parking or loading shall be designed
according to Article 13.
   (B)   Streets shall be constructed and utilities located as follows.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1289.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1291.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1293.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1295.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1297.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1299.jpg]
 
 
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 12. UTILITY STANDARDS
§ 12-A GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Ownership/easement rights. In any case in which a developer installs
water, sewer, electric power, telephone or cable television systems and intends
that such systems be owned, operated or maintained by a public utility or any
other entity, the developer shall transfer to such utility or entity the
necessary ownership or easement rights to enable the utility or entity to
operate and maintain such systems.
   (B)   Lots served by public water or sewer lines. Whenever it is legally
possible and practical to connect a lot with a village water or sewer line by
running a connecting line not more than 200 feet from a residential lot or 500
feet from a large residential development or 1,000 feet from a nonresidential
development, then no use requiring water or sewage disposal service may be made
of such lot unless connection is made to such line. Connection to such water or
sewer line is not legally possible if, to make a connection that does not
exceed these lengths, it is necessary to run the connecting line over property
not owned by the owner of the property to be served by the connection, and,
after diligent effort, the easement necessary to run the connecting line cannot
reasonably be obtained.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 12-B SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Sewage disposal.
      (1)   All developments within the corporate limits or under the control
of the village shall include provisions for the construction of or connection
to sanitary sewerage facilities unless beyond the distance requirements set
forth above. At a minimum, proposed sanitary sewer construction shall include a
system of sewers between a connection to an existing sewer system at an
approved location and the boundary line of each individual parcel of property
within or adjacent to the development. Where more than one building is located
or planned on one parcel of property, the proposed construction shall include
all sanitary sewer facilities within the parcel.
      (2)   The design of all sanitary sewerage facilities shall meet the
technical requirements of the village, local sanitary districts and the State
Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA).
   (B)   Service area. Development plans submitted to the village for approval
shall include a map of the service area to be ultimately served by all or a
portion of the proposed sewer system. The ultimate service area may be required
by the village to be extended beyond the limits of any development. The
additional expense for such extension of the service area may result in
provisions to recover such incremental cost through a recapture ordinance.
Adequate details shall be shown on the service area map relative to future
sewer sizes, elevations and topography to establish the adequacy of
construction plans submitted for approval to serve future extensions.
   (C)   System connections. The location of proposed connections to an
existing sewer system shall be approved by the village based on the available
capacity of the entire system.
   (D)   System design. Sewer systems shall be designed in accordance with the
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois and
the Recommended Standards for Sewage Works, latest editions. The more stringent
requirements contained in the cited documents shall apply. Sewer mains shall be
of adequate size to serve the entire development proposed and, except as
otherwise approved by the village, shall be installed in the street right-of-
way; or in an easement adjacent thereto. Sewer mains shall not be installed
within ten feet of a building. The minimum sewer main size shall be an eight-
inch internal diameter. Manholes shall be installed not more than 400 feet
apart for sewers 15 inches in diameter or less, and 500 feet apart for sewers
18 inches to 30 inches in diameter, at the end of each line, and all changes in
grade, size, alignment and material. The developer shall confer with the
village to determine the required size and grades for any trunk sewers prior to
construction. Sanitary sewers shall be extended to the boundary of the
development along public rights-of-way and at other locations indicated by the
village. Every effort shall be made to avoid lift stations in engineering
design.
      (1)   Design flows/slopes. Average design flow for a sanitary sewer
facility shall be 100 gpcpd (gallons per capita per day).
      (2)   Sewer size/design hydraulics.
         (a)   Minimum sanitary sewer size shall be an eight-inch internal
diameter. Minimum building sanitary sewer size shall be a six-inch internal
diameter.
         (b)   Sanitary sewers of different diameters shall join only at
manholes. The invert elevations shall be adjusted to maintain a uniform energy
gradient by matching the eight-tenths depth points of different diameters.
      (3)   Alignment. Sewers shall be laid straight in both horizontal and
vertical planes between manholes, unless otherwise approved by the village.
      (4)   Manholes. Manholes shall be precast concrete barrel sections
conforming to ASTM C-478. A one-tenth of a foot difference in invert elevations
should be used when a change of direction of flow is necessary within the
manhole.
      (5)   Inspection manholes. An inspection manhole having a minimum
diameter of 48 inches is required for all nonresidential development. Such
inspection manhole shall be constructed on the building service sewer before it
connects to the sewer main and shall not be located within the building
excavations disturbed earth or closer than five feet to the building. There
shall be no flow into the inspection manhole except flow from the building or
buildings for which the inspection manhole is intended. Manholes constructed on
a public sewer, or on sewers receiving other flows, are not considered
inspection manholes.
      (6)   Pipe bedding. Bedding shall consist of crushed aggregate, one-
quarter inch to three-quarter inch in size (CA-6, CA-11 or equal). The pipe
shall be laid so that it will be uniformly supported and the entire length of
the pipe barrel will have full bearing. No blocking of any kind shall be used
to adjust the pipe to grade except when concrete embedment is used. Bedding
shall be required for all sanitary sewer construction and shall be of a minimum
thickness equal to one-fourth of the outside diameter of the sewer pipe but
shall not be less than four inches.
      (7)   Separation of sewer/water mains. Where a sewer main lateral or
building service crosses a water main, a minimum vertical separation of 18
inches shall be provided between the top of the lower pipe (sewer) and the
bottom of the upper pipe (water). Where the 18 inches vertical separation is
not provided, the sewer shall be constructed of ductile iron pipe or approved
water main type material for a minimum distance of ten feet on each side of the
water main crossing. Reference “Technical Policy Statements” of the IEPA, Title
35, Part 653, § 119.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 12-C WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   (A)   Water supply.
      (1)   All developments within the corporate limits or under the control
of the village, shall include provisions for construction of water distribution
facilities complete with valves, fire hydrants and other appurtenances. Where
more than one building is located or planned on one parcel of property, or when
water main construction is required on the property for fire protection, the
proposed phased development shall also include all water main construction and
appurtenances.
      (2)   The design of all water source and distribution facilities shall
meet the technical and health/safety requirements of the village, local water
agencies and the IEPA.
   (B)   Service area. Development plans submitted to the village for approval
shall include a map of the service area to be ultimately served by all or a
portion of the proposed water system. The ultimate service area may be required
by the village to be extended beyond the limits of any development. The
additional expense for such extension of the service area and any oversizing
resulting from such anticipated extension may result in provisions to recover
such incremental cost through a recapture ordinance. Adequate details shall be
shown on the service area map relative to future water main sizes, elevations
and topography to establish the adequacy of construction plans submitted for
approval to serve future extensions.
   (C)   System connections. The location of proposed connection to an existing
water system shall be approved by the village based on the available capacity
of the entire system.
   (D)   System design. Water systems shall form a complete network and be
compatible with existing water distribution networks. Mains shall be extended
to the property lines along public rights-of-way and at any location indicated
by the village. All public water main extensions shall be located within
dedicated rights-of-way or easements. Transmission mains within or adjacent to
a development shall be sized and located as directed by the village. Secondary
mains shall be sized, looped and spaced as required for fire flows and shall
have a minimum diameter of eight inches. Distribution mains shall form a grid
to supply water to local fire hydrants and service lines. At all locations, a
minimum diameter of eight inches is required. Dead ends shall be avoided
whenever possible. The proposed system extension shall be arranged so that, in
the event of a break in any main, minimal service interruption will be caused
and in no case will require closure of more than three valves.
      (1)   Horizontal/vertical separation. All water mains shall maintain
minimum ten feet horizontal and 18 inch vertical separations from any sewer
lines, in accordance with the IEPA requirements. If IEPA separations cannot be
met, then adequate provisions for protection of the water supply must be made
based on the requirements of the village and the IEPA.
      (2)   Material specifications. All new installation, replacement and/or
repair water main shall be ductile iron cement-lined bituminous coated pipe,
Class 52 (minimum). All ductile iron pipe shall have eight millimeter
polyethylene encasement unless waived by the village.
      (3)   Ductile iron pipe.
         (a)   All ductile iron pipe shall comply with AWWA standard
specifications for ductile iron pipe, centrifugally cast in metal molds or
sand-lined molds for water or other liquids (AWWA C151). Special consideration
of alternate pipe materials may be allowed by the village if highly corrosive
soils or special site conditions exist.
         (b)   Ductile iron pipe shall conform to AWWA specifications C151.
Normal working pressure shall not exceed 150 psi. Pipe shall be furnished in
nominal 18-foot lengths.
         (c)   Ductile iron pipe shall be bituminous coated outside and cement-
mortar lined inside as specified in § 51-8.2 of ANSI A21.51 (AWWA C151). Each
pipe shall have the weight and class designated on it. In addition, the
manufacturer’s mark and year in which the pipe was manufactured shall be marked
on the pipe.
         (d)   All underground fittings shall be ductile iron and-connected to
sections of water main pipe by means of mechanical joints with Grade #304
stainless steel nuts and bolts or approved push-type joints. All fittings shall
meet current AWWA C110 (ANSI 21.10), Ductile Iron and Gray Iron Fittings three
inches through 48 inches for water and other liquids.
         (e)   All ductile iron pipe water distribution system elements shall
conform to the following specifications:
            1.   Pipe class thickness: ANSI A21.50 (AWWA C150) (minimum
thickness, Class 52);
            2.   Pipe: ANSI A21.51 (AWWA C151);
            3.   Pipe lining: ANSI A21.4 (AWWA C104);
            4.   Fittings: ANSI 21.10 (AWWA C110);
            5.   Joints: mechanical and push-on, ANSI A21.11 (AWWA C111); and
            6.   Polyethylene encasement (eight mil): ANSI A21.5 (AWWA C105).
      (4)   Thrust blocks.
         (a)   Thrust blocks and/or restrained joints are required at all
valves, hydrants, tees and bends. Final engineering drawings shall indicate the
location of each concrete thrust block to be installed. Where undisturbed earth
is not available or not likely to be available to back up pressure type
concrete thrust blocks, tie rods or retaining glands with or without anchor-
type concrete thrust blocks shall be specified.
         (b)   All thrust blocks shall be poured with Class X concrete. When
poured, care shall be taken so that the cement does not interfere with access
to joints or with hydrant drainage.
      (5)   Fire hydrants.
         (a)   Fire hydrants shall be the break-away flange type and shall be
installed so that residential property will not be further than 150 feet from a
fire hydrant. Fire hydrants shall be provided so as to provide the required
fire flows to structures as described in the “Fire Suppression Rating
Schedule.” Where water transmission lines or off-site water lines are installed
on private property, the first private hydrant must be installed at no more
than 500-foot interval distance from the street hydrant and at 300-foot
intervals thereafter to the most remote point of the building. Nonresidential
areas require a fire hydrant within 100 feet of a building siamese connection.
         (b)   Fire hydrants shall be typically installed not further than six
feet nor less than three feet from the back of curb or edge of pavement.
Parking lots shall be designed to provide not less than 15 feet of hydrant
clearance on one side of the hydrant on which a steamer or hose connection is
located to permit easy fire truck access.
      (6)   Valves.
         (a)   Valves shall be located on water mains so as to effectively
isolate the sections from the system with minimal disruption should a break or
other failure occur. The valves’ spacing shall be installed so that not over
660 feet of main will be shut off at any given time, or less in nonresidential
areas as deemed necessary by the village.
         (b)   Valves ten-inch and smaller shall be iron body, resilient seat
gate valves, counterclockwise to open (AWWA C-509); 12-inch and larger shall be
iron body, rubber seat, butterfly valve, Class 150B, AWWA C504. All valves
shall open counterclockwise. Joint ends shall be mechanical, AWWA C111. All
nuts and bolts shall be stainless steel grade #304.
      (7)   Valve vaults.
         (a)   Valve vaults shall be precast reinforced concrete circular
barrel and cone sections (ASTM C478) with mastic watertight joints.
         (b)   For six-inch diameter service line valves and eight-inch
diameter valves, valve vaults shall have a 48-inch minimum inside diameter. For
pressure connections and valves ten-inch diameter and larger, valve vaults
shall have a 60-inch inside diameter.
         (c)   No more than three precast concrete adjusting rings with 12-inch
maximum height adjustment shall be allowed.
      (8)   Castings. Manhole frames and covers shall be Neenah No. R-1772C,
embossed “WATER” with a one-inch concealed pick hole in yard areas or Neenah R-
1712 with a one-inch pick hole in a paved area.
      (9)   Auxiliary resilient seat valves. Valves shall be Clow, Mueller or
Waterous as follows or as approved by the village:
         (a)   Resilient seat: Mueller Valve; hydrant auxiliary, #2370-16;
         (b)   Resilient seat: Mueller Line Valves; A-2370-20, size four-inch
to ten-inch;
         (c)   Waterous Auxiliary Valve: 506 flange/mechanical;
         (d)   Clow: Auxiliary Valve; R/W, #F-6106;
         (e)   Clow: Line Valve; R/W, #F-6100; and
         (f)   Butterfly valves: Pratt Groundhog.
      (10)   Air release valves.
         (a)   Air release valves shall be placed on the water main at high
points as deemed necessary to serve as air vents preventing air locking of the
water main. These air release valves shall be of the APCO 200 A-type or an
approved equivalent. All air release valves shall be placed in vaults.
         (b)   Three-quarter inch, (minimum) bronze corporation cocks shall be
installed in all water mains at intervals not exceeding 600 feet. Contractors
must notify the village at least 24 hours in advance to arrange for appropriate
pressure testing and water samplings. All water samples will be sent by the
village to a state certified testing lab for coliform bacterial analysis.
Samples will be taken at 24- and 48-hour intervals after chlorination.
         (c)   The contractor must notify the Planning Director at least 48
hours in advance to arrange for existing valve operation for putting new mains
in service.
      (11)   Construction requirements.
         (a)   Pipe shall be installed in accordance with Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, applicable
AWWA standards and the requirements of the village.
         (b)   The required minimum one-inch diameter copper line (Type K)
shall be laid in a trench at a minimum depth of five and one-half feet. Water
service lines for each property shall be laid from buffalo boxes into
buildings, through a water meter and then into the plumbing system of the
building. All plumbing shall conform, at a minimum, to the State Plumbing Code
(77 I.A.C. 890).
         (c)   The location of buffalo boxes shall be sawcut in the curb as a
“W” and the location field marked with a painted “blue” four by four hardwood
timber installed vertically.
         (d)   No meter will be placed into service until an inspection of the
existing building’s plumbing system has been made by the village to ensure
positive and permanent disconnection of previous well water supply and adequate
flushing and disinfection. There shall be no intermingling of municipal and
individual well water supplies in the building’s plumbing. Continued use of a
well water supply is permitted for non-domestic benefits (sprinkling and
irrigation and the like) only if the potable village water supply is completely
physically disconnected from the non-village supply.
         (e)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed
wherever such installation is necessary to comply with the Plumbing Code and
I.E.P.A. Technical Policy Statements. All backflow prevention devices or
methods required shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross
Connection Control of the University of Southern California, American Water
Works Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering or American
National Standards Institute and certified by the National Sanitation
Foundation to be in compliance with applicable industry specifications.
         (f)   Water meters must be installed within a building at a visible
location with the meter reading through a glass block ten inch by ten inch and
which ensures protection from freezing, allows convenient access for repairs
and periodic reading from the exterior and is as close to the supply line
entrance as possible. A meter remote may be used if approved by the village.
         (g)   All connections to the village water distribution system shall
be made under full water service pressure unless otherwise approved by the
village. Where connections are made to existing valves, said valves shall be
pressure tested at 150 p.s.i. before connection is made.
         (h)   The cutting of pipe for inserting valves, fittings or closure
pieces shall be done in a neat and workmanlike manner without damage to cement
lining and so as to leave a smooth surface and at right angles to the axis of
the pipe.
      (12)   Pressure testing/disinfection.
         (a)   Each section of water main and appurtenances without services
shall be hydrostatically tested by contractors and witnessed by the village.
Any defects or leaks shall be corrected by the contractor before proceeding.
         (b)   All newly laid water main pipe shall be subjected to a
hydrostatic pressure of 150 pounds per square inch. Duration of each pressure
test shall be for a period of not less than two hours. Each valved section of
main shall be filled with water, and the specified test pressure shall be
applied by means of a pump connected to the pipe. Allowable leakage shall be
computed in accordance with AWWA C-600 §
4.1 guidelines.
         (c)   Before applying the specified test pressure, all air shall be
expelled from the pipe. Any cracked or defective pipes, fittings, valves or
hydrants discovered in consequence of this pressure test shall be removed and
replaced and the test repeated until satisfactory results are obtained.
         (d)   Prior to chlorination, the main shall be flushed as thoroughly
as possible with the water pressure and outlets available. Flushing shall be
done after a successful pressure test has been completed.
         (e)   All water mains shall be disinfected and tested according to the
requirements of the “Standards for Disinfecting Water Mains.” All disinfection
shall be performed by a state registered firm exhibiting experience in the
methods and techniques of this operation and shall be approved by the village.
         (f)   The retention period shall be at least 24 hours. After the
chlorine-treated water has been retained for the required time, the chlorine
residual at the pipe extremities and at other representative points should be
at least 25 ppm.
         (g)   In the process of chlorinating newly laid pipe, all valves or
other appurtenances shall be operated while the pipeline is filled with the
chlorinating agent.
         (h)   Twenty-four hours after chlorination, all treated water shall be
thoroughly flushed from the newly laid pipeline at its extremities until the
replacement water, throughout its length shall, upon test and receipt of
laboratory results, be approved as safe water by the village. This quality of
water delivered by the new main should remain for a period of at least two full
consecutive days as demonstrated by laboratory examination of samples taken
from taps on two consecutive days under village supervision. Water samples
[missing text] lines before and after flushing: Samples must be taken on two
consecutive days.
         (i)   Bacteriological analysis of the samples shall be performed by a
laboratory certified by the State Department of Public Health. Should the
initial treatment result in an unsatisfactory bacterial test, the procedure
shall be repeated until satisfactory results are obtained. Results of the
analysis shall be transmitted by the laboratory directly to the village. Test
results shall indicate the date the sample was collected, the date the analysis
was made, the exact locations at which samples were taken and the project at
which the samples were collected. Once all water sample results have been
determined to be acceptable, the new main should be placed in service and all
water service taps may then be made under pressure on the live main.
      (13)   Construction water. For the purpose of this division (D)(13),
CONSTRUCTION WATER is defined as that unrestricted supply of municipal water
required by the various trades involved in building construction for concrete,
masonry, painting, plastering, cleanup and other related purposes, which is
paid per schedule as part of the building permit fee. The water use privilege
intended by this charge does not include water used for landscaping or trench
jetting. This water must be metered. Hydrant use should be avoided if at all
possible. The construction water usage privilege will terminate upon
installation of water meters.
      (14)   Water meters. It will be the responsibility of the general
contractor to contact the village for an appointment to install water meters.
Installation of water meters must occur prior to final inspection and occupancy
approval.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 12-D LIGHTING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Requirements.
      (1)   All public and private streets, driveways, sidewalks, parking lots
and other common areas or facilities created after the effective date of this
code shall be sufficiently illuminated to ensure the security of property and
the safety of persons using such streets, sidewalks and other common areas or
facilities.
      (2)   All entrances and exits in substantial buildings used for
nonresidential purposes and in multi-family residential developments containing
more than four dwelling units shall be adequately lit to ensure the safety of
persons and the security of the buildings.
   (B)   Lighting control. Lighting within any lot that unnecessarily
illuminates any other property or lot and substantially interferes with the use
or enjoyment of such other lot is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 12-E UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   (A)   All utility lines and pipelines constructed after the effective date
of this Code, including without limitation replacement and extension of
existing utility lines and pipelines, shall be placed underground in accordance
with the specifications and policies of the respective utility service
providers. For the purpose of this article, utility lines and pipelines
include, but are not limited to: electric power lines; telephone, cable
television and other telecommunications lines; natural gas distribution and
transmission lines; and oil pipelines. In cases where the placement of utility
lines and pipelines imposes practical difficulties or particular hardship due
to physical or economic considerations, the Village Board by resolution may
authorize above-ground placement. Requests for such above-ground placement of
utility lines and pipelines shall be initiated by the recommendation of the
Planning Director and shall be consistent with the general purpose and intent
of this code and Comprehensive Plan. As applicable in each specific case, any
improvement costs required to place underground those utility lines or
pipelines immediately serving a development site or those utility lines or
pipelines uniquely and specifically attributable to a development site that are
in excess of standard service provided by the utility company shall be the
responsibility of the developer, including without limitation a proportionate
share of the improvement costs required to place underground those lines or
pipelines that serve more than one development site. For the purpose of this
article, a developer shall include any authority constructing improvements in
the village.
   (B)   Transformers or enclosures containing electrical equipment, including,
but not limited to, switches, meters or capacitors, may be pad-mounted. All
transformers, enclosures and electrical equipment shall be located and screened
where possible to minimize visual impacts. Screening of such facilities may
include, but is not limited to, fencing and landscaping and shall be subject to
the design review of the Village Plan Commissioner.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 1999-0-1, passed 4-12-1999)
§ 12-F UTILITY COORDINATION.
   (A)   Whenever it can reasonably be anticipated that utility systems
constructed in one development will be extended to serve other adjacent or
nearby developments, such utility systems shall be located and constructed so
that extensions can be made conveniently and without undue burden or expense,
or unnecessary duplication of service.
   (B)   All utility systems, including sewer, water, electric power, gas,
telephone and cable, shall be constructed in such a manner as to minimize
interference with pedestrian or vehicular traffic and to facilitate maintenance
without undue damage to improvements or utility systems located within the
development.
   (C)   Underground utility construction shall not commence until all existing
public and private utilities are field located. The utility coordination
service J.U.L.I.E. shall be called at least 72 hours in advance.
   (D)   All necessary precautions shall be taken against damage to existing
utilities. In the event of a break in an existing water main, gas main, sewer
or underground cable, contractors shall immediately notify the organization
operating the utility. The contractor or developer shall lend all possible
assistance in restoring service and shall assume all costs, charges or claims
connected with the interruption and repair of such services.
   (E)   In the case of damage to village utilities, the repairs shall be
immediately performed by the contractor, or the cost of such repair work will
be billed to the contractor or developer on a time and material basis plus
fringe, overhead and administrative costs.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 12-G DRAWING REQUIREMENTS.
   Whenever a developer installs any utility system in any public right-of-way,
the developer shall, as soon as practicable after installation is complete, and
before acceptance of any utility line, furnish the village with a copy of a
drawing that shows the exact location of such utility lines. Such drawings
should be verified as accurate by the utility service provider.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 12-H DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   Every development that will be required to provide one or more
dumpsters for solid waste collection shall provide sites for such dumpsters
that are:
      (1)   Located as to facilitate collection and minimize any negative
impact on persons occupying the development site, neighboring properties or
public rights-of-way; and
      (2)   Constructed to allow for collection without damage to the
development site or the collection vehicle.
   (B)   All such dumpsters shall be screened according to the requirements of
Article 10.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 13. PARKING/LOADING STANDARDS
§ 13-A GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent. The standards of this article are established to:
      (1)   Increase safety and lessen congestion on public and private
streets;
      (2)   Meet the need for parking and loading spaces associated with new
development;
      (3)   Set geometric standards for off-street parking and loading
facilities;
      (4)   Set requirements for off-street parking and loading facilities
according to the traffic estimated to be generated by each site use; and
      (5)   Minimize on-street parking of vehicles on arterial and collector
streets.
   (B)   Compliance.
      (1)   In all zoning districts, off-street parking and loading facilities
shall be provided and maintained as required by this article for all uses,
buildings and structures. It shall be the responsibility of the operator,
lessee and owner of a building, structure or premises for which parking and
loading facilities are required to provide and maintain such facilities.
      (2)   Permanent off-street parking and loading spaces required by this
article shall be provided when a building is constructed, or at the time a
principal building is enlarged or increased in capacity by adding dwelling
units, guest rooms, seats or floor area, or from conversion from one type of
use or occupancy to another. Parking spaces may be provided in a parking garage
or properly paved open area.
   (C)   Change in use. When a change in the existing use or the intensity of
use of any building or structure would increase the required parking by ten or
more spaces, cumulatively from the date of this code, through change in the
number of dwelling units, gross floor area, gross leasable area, seating
capacity or other units of measurements specified herein, the additional
required parking shall be provided in accordance with this article unless a
variance is granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with Article
16. If fewer than ten spaces are required by a change or series of changes in
use, the Planning Director may waive the incremental required number of parking
spaces after determining that the granting of the waiver will not be
detrimental to the public welfare and will be consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan.
   (D)   Existing parking/loading facilities. Accessory off-street parking and
loading facilities in existence on the effective date of this code and located
on the same lot as the building, structure or use served shall not hereafter be
reduced below, or if already less than, shall not be further reduced below the
requirements for a similar new building, structure or use under the provisions
of this article.
   (E)   Damage/destruction.
      (1)   When any building, structure or use is restored or continued in
operation after being damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or
other cause, to the extent that the cost of restoration exceeds 100% of the
appraised value, there shall be provided the off-street parking and loading
facilities required by this code.
      (2)   When any building, structure or use which is in existence on the
effective date of this code, is restored or continued in operation after being
damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or other cause, to the extent
that the cost of restoration does not exceed 100% of the appraised value, there
need be provided only the off-street parking and loading facilities equivalent
of any maintained at the time of such damage or destruction.
      (3)   In no case, however, shall it be necessary to restore or maintain
parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this code for
equivalent new uses or construction. Nothing in this code shall be deemed to
prevent the voluntary establishment of off-street parking and loading
facilities in excess of the number required, provided that there is adherence
to all requirements for the location, design and operation of such facilities
and are approved by the Planning Director.
   (F)   Use.
      (1)   Required off-street parking facilities shall be solely for the
parking of passenger vehicles of patrons, occupants and employees of the uses
to which they are accessory.
      (2)   No area allocated to loading/unloading facilities may be used to
satisfy the area requirements for off-street parking, nor shall any portion of
any off-street parking area be used to satisfy the area requirements for
loading/unloading facilities.
      (3)   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall not be used for the
sale, storage, repair, dismantling or servicing of any vehicles, equipment,
materials, goods or supplies. Emergency service required to start vehicles
shall be permitted.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 13-B PARKING LOCATION.
   (A)   Same lot parking.
      (1)   All off-street parking facilities, except employee parking, shall
be provided on the same lot or parcel of land being served, or on a separate
lot or parcel, if the zoning classification of such separate lot or parcel is
the same as or less restrictive than the classification of the lot upon which
the use is located.
      (2)   The Village Board may authorize by covenant, the location of all or
part of the required off-street parking spaces on a lot other than the zoning
lot occupied.
      (3)   Off-street parking spaces, open to the sky or in a parking garage,
may be located in any yard, provided that all parking areas for the Corporate
Campus District be located a minimum of 100 feet and other nonresidential uses
containing more than four spaces be located a minimum of ten feet from the
property live adjoining other nonresidential districts and 40 feet from the
property line adjoining a residential district provided that the setback is
landscaped as per Article 10.
      (4)   In residential districts, the required parking spaces may be
located in the front yard; provided, that they are in the driveway area of the
zoning lot.
      (5)   Off-street parking spaces, open to the sky or in a parking garage,
may be located in any yard; provided, that all parking areas for the Business
Park District and Community Retail District, and other nonresidential uses
containing more than four spaces, be located a minimum of 25 feet from the
property line adjoining other nonresidential districts and 50 feet from the
property line adjoining a residential district; provided, that all parking
setbacks are landscaped per Article 10.
   (B)   Satellite parking.
      (1)   If the number of off-street parking spaces required by this article
cannot reasonably be provided on the same lot where the principal use
associated with these parking spaces is located, then spaces may be provided on
adjacent or nearby lots in accordance with this article. These off-site spaces
shall be considered satellite parking spaces.
      (2)   All such satellite parking spaces (except spaces intended for
employee use) must be located within 400 feet of a public entrance of a
principal building housing the use associated with such parking, or within 400
feet of the lot on which the use associated with such parking is located if the
use is not housed within any principal building. The 400-foot distance shall be
measured by sidewalk travel distance.
      (3)   The developer wishing to take advantage of the provisions of this
section must present satisfactory written evidence that he or she has the
permission of the owner or other person in charge of the satellite parking
spaces to use such spaces. The developer must also sign an acknowledgment that
the continuing validity of his or her building permit depends upon his or her
continuing ability to provide the requisite number of parking spaces.
      (4)   The portion of required parking that is demonstrated to be used by
employees may be provided on a separate parcel or lot within: 600 feet of the
premises, subject to the same conditions required above. Exceptions to this
distance will be allowed by the village for remote parking served by: transit
systems; enclosed pedestrian ways; and/or “park and ride” lots with shuttle
service.
   (C)   Street parking. There shall be no parking allowed on either side of
local streets with pavement widths of 18 feet and sub-collector streets with
widths of 20 feet. An additional eight feet shall be added to pavement width if
parking is to be allowed on one side of the street. If parking is to be allowed
on both sides of the street, then 16 feet of pavement width shall be added.
There shall be no parking allowed in alleys.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
§ 13-C DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Parking space dimensions.
      (1)   Each standard parking space shall contain a rectangular area at
least 19 feet long and nine feet wide. Lines demarcating parking spaces may be
drawn at various angles in relation to curbs or aisles, so long as the parking
spaces created satisfy this rectangular area.
      (2)   In employee parking areas, each parking space may contain a
rectangular area at least 18 feet long and eight and one-half feet wide.
      (3)   In employee parking areas containing ten or more parking spaces, up
to 20% of the parking spaces may contain a rectangular area of only 15 feet
long and seven and one-half feet wide. If such spaces are provided, they shall
be designated as reserved for small or compact cars only.
      (4)   Wherever parking areas consist of spaces set aside for parallel
parking, the dimensions of such parking spaces shall be not less than 22 feet
by eight feet.
      (5)   Handicapped parking spaces required by state and federal statutes
shall contain a rectangular area at least 19 feet long and 16 feet wide.
      (6)   Each parking space shall have a vertical clearance of at least
seven feet.
   (B)   Parking aisles/driveway dimensions.
      (1)   Parking aisle widths shall conform to the following.
 
Aisle Width     Parking Angle
                0 degrees 30 degrees 45 degrees 60 degrees 90 degrees
One-way traffic 13 feet   11 feet    13 feet    18 feet    24 feet
Two-way traffic 19 feet   20 feet    21 feet    23 feet    24 feet
 
      (2)   Driveways shall be not less than ten feet width for one-way traffic
and 18 feet in width for two-way traffic, except that ten-foot wide driveways
are permissible for two-way traffic when the driveway is not longer than 50
feet, it provides access to not more than six spaces, and sufficient turning
space is provided so that vehicles need not back into a public street.
   (C)   Marking/striping.
      (1)   The location of each off-street parking space and the direction of
movement along the parking aisles and driveways providing access shall be
indicated by markings on paved surfaces and proved directional signs.
      (2)   Parking spaces shall be delineated by either double white or yellow
lines approximately 12 to 18 inches apart or by single yellow lines.
      (3)   Directional signs shall conform to provisions of signage section.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 13-D OFF-STREET LOADING.
   In all districts, there shall be provided off-street loading facilities as
regulated in this article for any building or structure which is erected or
substantially altered, which requires the receipt or distribution of materials
or merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles.
   (A)   Location and visual separation.
      (1)   All required off-street loading berths shall be located on the same
zoning lot as the use to be served. They shall be located no closer than 80
feet to any street intersection and shall not be located in a required front
yard or side yard adjoining a street. When parked in a loading berth, no
portion of the vehicle shall project into a street, alley, access drive or
parking area.
      (2)   Loading and unloading areas shall be so located and designed that
the vehicles intended to use them can maneuver safely and conveniently to and
from a public right-of-way and complete the loading and unloading operations
without obstructing or interfering with any public right-of-way or any parking
space or parking lot aisle.
      (3)   All motor vehicle loading berths which abut any residential
district or an intervening alley separating a residential district from a
commercial district shall be completely screened within a building or by an
eight-foot-high solid fence or wall.
   (B)   Access and maneuvering area.
      (1)   Each required off-street loading berth shall have an adjacent open
paved area, other than a street or public way, of adequate size located to
provide for all required maneuvering for truck access to the loading berth.
      (2)   Each required off-street loading berth shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley to provide for safe
traffic movements.
      (3)   All plans for maneuvering areas and vehicular access shall be
reviewed and approved by the Planning Director.
   (C)   Standard berths.
      (1)   Except as otherwise specified for an individual use, loading
facilities/berths shall be provided in accordance with the following schedule,
exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall in all cases have a
vertical clearance of at least 15 feet from street grade.
 
Gross Floor Area of Facility in Square Feet Required Number and Size of Berths
7,000 to 30,000                             1 - (12 feet x 30 feet)
30,001 to 60,000                            2 - (12 feet x 30 feet, each)
60,001 to 100,000                           2 - (12 feet x 55 feet, each)
 
      (2)   For each additional 200,000 square feet of gross floor area or
fraction thereof over 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, one additional
loading berth shall be provided. Such additional berth shall be at least 12
feet in width by 55 feet in length.
      (3)   The Planning Director may require fewer or more loading berths if
reasonably necessary to satisfy the standard.
      (4)   Uses for which off-street loading facilities are required herein
but which are located in buildings of less floor area than the minimum
prescribed (7,000 square feet) for such required facilities shall be provided
with adequate receiving facilities, accessible by motor vehicle off any
adjacent alley, service drive or open space on the same zoning lot.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 13-E DESIGN/CONSTRUCTION/MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General design requirements.
      (1)   Unless no other practical alternative is available, parking and
loading areas shall be designed so that vehicles may exit such areas without
backing onto a public street. This requirement does not apply to parking areas
consisting of driveways that serve one or two dwelling units, although backing
onto collector streets is discouraged.
      (2)   Parking and loading areas of all developments shall be designed so
that sanitation, emergency and other public service vehicles can serve such
developments without the necessity of backing unreasonable distances or making
other dangerous or hazardous turning movements.
      (3)   Every parking and loading area shall be designed so that vehicles
cannot extend beyond the perimeter of such area onto adjacent properties or
public rights-of-way. Such areas shall also be designed so that vehicles do not
extend over required sidewalk width or tend to bump against or damage any wall,
vegetation or other obstruction.
      (4)   Parking aisles and driveways shall be designed so that vehicles can
proceed safely without posing a danger to pedestrians or other vehicles and
without interfering with parking areas.
   (B)   Surfacing.
      (1)   Parking and loading areas shall be graded and surfaced with
asphalt, concrete or other material that will provide equivalent protection
against potholes, erosion and dust.
      (2)   All driveways connecting such parking and loading areas to streets
and roads shall be paved with concrete, asphalt materials or permanent
materials as approved by the village in accordance with Article 11.
      (3)   Off-street parking areas and access drives accessory to residential
dwellings shall be paved or otherwise surfaced with an all-weather dustless
material.
      (4)   Parking and loading areas that are not provided with the type of
surface specified above shall be graded and surfaced with crushed stone, gravel
or other suitable material to provide a surface that is stable and will help to
reduce dust and erosion. The perimeter of such parking areas shall be defined
by bricks, stones, railroad ties or other similar devices. In addition,
whenever such a vehicle accommodation area abuts a paved street, the driveway
leading from such street to such area (or, if there is no driveway, the portion
of the vehicle accommodation area that opens onto such streets) shall be paved
to the edge of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Parking and loading areas shall be maintained in good condition
(free from potholes and the like) and parking space lines or markings shall be
kept clearly visible and distinct.
   (C)   Drainage/snow removal.
      (1)   Adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of stormwater in
accordance with this code. Such water shall not flow into adjacent property or
onto or across sidewalks in a quantity or manner that would be inconvenient to
persons using the sidewalks.
      (2)   Stormwater drainage may be designed to temporarily flood portions
of parking areas up to six inches in depth during heavy downpours.
      (3)   Provisions shall be made for the storage and/or removal of snow
from parking areas. Areas for snow storage shall be designated reasonably close
to drains or catch basins. Snow storage on planting areas should be avoided to
prevent physical and salt damage to plant material.
   (D)   Curbs. For all parking areas containing more than 15 spaces,
continuous permanent curbing or retaining walls constructed of Portland cement
concrete, or equal, to prevent the washing of soil to and from adjoining
property shall be provided. Curbs shall also be provided between all
landscaping areas and adjacent parking lot and driveway paving.
   (E)   Lighting.
      (1)   The following light levels shall be provided, measured at the
parking surface.
 
                           Minimum Footcandles
Garage interior            6
Garage stairways and exits 20
Garage vehicle entrances   40
Garage vehicle exits       20
Roof parking areas         2
Surface parking lots       2
 
      (2)   Illumination of off-street parking areas shall be arranged so as
not to project direct rays of light into adjacent property or into street
right-of-way and so as not to produce excessive glare. All lighting used to
illuminate off-street parking and loading areas shall be directed or shielded
to allow no more than one-half foot candle within ten feet of adjacent
residential properties or public rights-of-way.
   (F)   Landscaping/screening. All open off-street parking areas containing
more than three parking spaces shall be screened by landscaping on all sides as
required in Article 10.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 13-F PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Single-use development. There shall be provided for each building,
structure and use constructed structurally altered or enlarged, the minimum
number of accessory off-street parking spaces in accordance with the following.
 Parking Spaces Required Loading Spaces Required
                          Parking Spaces Required    Loading Spaces Required
Food and beverage
Family restaurant         15/1,000 sq. ft. floor     None
                          area minimum of 1 space
                          15/1,000 sq. ft. GFA       With indoor seating area,
Fast food                 kitchen, counter and       1; with no seating area,
                          waiting areas plus 0.5/    none
                          seat provided
Quality restaurant        20/1,000 sq. ft. GFA       None
                          minimum of 1 space
Miscellaneous
                          0.75/person in permitted   1/100,000 sq. ft. GFA
Conference center         capacity                   (within other uses or
                                                     freestanding)
                          0.4/employee plus one      1/100,000 sq. ft. GFA up
Hospitals                 space/3 beds plus one      to 500,000 sq. ft. plus 1/
                          space/10 average daily     200,000 sq. ft. thereafter
                          out-patient treatments
Public assembly           0.25/person in permitted   1/100,000 sq. ft. GFA
                          capacity
Office and business services
                          1/1.5 employees on the     1/25,000 sq. ft. GFA up to
Communication and private major shift plus one for   50,000 sq. ft. plus 1/
utility                   the next 50,000 sq. ft.    100,000 sq. ft.
                          thereafter
Daycare center            0.2/person                 None
                          1/Classroom and other room
Educational               used by students plus 0.2/ 1/100,000 sq. ft. GFA
                          student over driving age
                          2.5/1,000 sq. ft. GFA;     None for the first 10,000
                          stacking space for drive-  sq. ft. GFA then 1/50,000
Financial institutions    through windows to be      sq. ft. up to 100,000 sq.
                          determined by Planning     ft. plus 1/10,000 sq. ft.
                          Director                   thereafter
                          4/1,000 sq. ft. GFA for up
General offices           to 30,000 sq. ft.; 3.3/    See § 13-D(C)
                          1,000 sq. ft. GFA
                          thereafter
                          4/1,000 sq. ft. GFA
Governmental              administrative offices;    As determined by the
                          other as determined by the Planning Director
                          Planning Director
                          6/1,000 sq. ft. GFA for    None for the first 5,000
Medical offices           the first 5,000 sq. ft.    sq. ft. then one for each
                          plus 3.5/1,000 sq. ft. GLA 100,000 sq. ft.
                          thereafter
Residential
Accessory dwelling unit   1/dwelling unit            None
                          2 for owners/managers plus 1/40,000 sq. ft. for
                          1/sleeping room or unit    restaurant/lounge and
Commercial lodgings       plus any spaces required   meeting rooms; minimum one
                          for restaurant/banquet and for lodgings with 50 or
                          meeting rooms              more rooms or units
Congregate, convalescent  0.33/resident              None
and nursing homes
Elderly housing/          0.25/independent living    None
independent living unit   unit
Multi-family
   Studio              1.25/dwelling unit         None
   1 bedroom           1.5/dwelling unit          None
   2 or 3 bedrooms     2/dwelling unit            None
   4 or more bedrooms  2.5/dwelling unit          None
                          2/dwelling unit on streets
Single-family             with curb parking;         None
                          otherwise 2.5/dwelling
                          unit
Retail/service
Coin-operated laundries   1 space/2 machines         None
                          4/1,000 sq; ft of GFA;
Convenience retail        minimum of 4 spaces per    See § 13-D(C)
                          establishment
                          4/1,000 sq. ft. of GFA;
General retail            minimum of 4 spaces per    See § 13-D(C)
                          establishment
                          3.5/1,000 sq. ft. of GFA
                          interior sales space plus
Hard goods retail         1.5/1,000 feet of interior See § 13-D(C)
                          storage; minimum of 4
                          spaces per establishment
Other retail/service uses As determined by the       See § 13-D(C)
                          Planning Director
                          2/treatment station but
Personal care services    not less than 1/1,000 sq.  None
                          ft. GFA
Public recreation         0.33/person in permitted   1/100,000 sq. ft. GFA
                          capacity
                          2.5/1,000 sq. ft. of GFA;
Service retail            minimum of 3 spaces per    See § 13-D(C)
                          establishment
                          4/1,000 sq. ft. of GLA for
                          centers with up to 400,000 1/50,000 sq. ft. GLA sq.
                          sq. ft. 4.5/1,000 sq. ft.  ft. up to 1,000,000 sq.
Shopping centers          of GLA for centers with    ft. plus 1/100,000 sq. ft.
                          400,000 to 600,000 sq.     plus 1/100,000 sq. ft. up
                          ft., 5/1,000 sq. ft. of    to 500,000 sq. ft. plus 1/
                          GLA for centers with over  200,000 sq. ft. thereafter
                          600,000 sq. ft.
Temporary retail          As determined by the       None
                          Planning Director
For business park parking and loading space requirements, see division (B)(2)
below
 
   (B)   Mixed-use; development (shared parking).
      (1)   Development sites which contain multiple land uses shall use for
each land use the parking requirements for single-use developments contained in
this section. However, the village recognizes that sharing parking spaces
between different uses can in special cases reduce the need for parking
facilities. Parking spaces already provided to meet the off-street parking
requirements for retail, public and corporate buildings or off-street parking
facilities provided by the village, may be used to meet up to 75% of the total
requirements for parking spaces for churches, auditoriums or other places of
public or private assembly, subject to the approval of the Village Board and to
the following.
         (a)   The parking spaces to be shared must be within a walking
distance of not greater than 300 feet from the place of assembly.
         (b)   The schedules of operation of all uses involved are such that
none of the uses sharing the space requires the off-street parking spaces at
the same time as any other use sharing the space.
      (2)   On sites with office, hotel and retail uses, 80% of the required
number of parking spaces for office uses may be applied to the number of hotel
or retail spaces provided that:
         (a)   The number does not exceed 40% of the number of spaces required
by hotels; or
         (b)   The number does not exceed 20% of the number of spaces required
by retail.
 
                         Parking Spaces Required       Loading Spaces Required
Business Park                                          
General office           See division (A) above for    See § 13-D(C)
                         requirements
Manufacturing            2.5/1,000 sq. ft. GFA         1/15,000 sq. ft. GFA
Product development      2.5/1,000 sq. ft. GFA         1/15,000 sq. ft. GFA
Research facilities      2.5/1,000 sq. ft. GFA         1/15,000 sq. ft. GFA
                         1/employee or 0.50/1,000 sq.
                         ft. GFA for the first 20,000
Warehousing/distribution sq. ft. plus 0.25/1,000 sq.   1/10,000 sq. ft. GFA
                         ft. GFA thereafter, whichever
                         is greater
 
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-11, passed 10-13-2003)
ARTICLE 14. TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT
§ 14-A DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVERAGE PASSENGER OCCUPANCY (APO). The average passenger occupancy of
vehicles commuting to a single work location within the affected area during
peak travel periods.
   AVERAGE VEHICLE OCCUPANCY (AVO). The average vehicle occupancy of vehicles
commuting to work within the affected zone during peak travel periods.
   BUSPOOL. A bus service, usually administered by an employer, with limited
pickup at destination stops, guaranteed seats and advanced ticket issuance.
Club buses are BUSPOOLS administered by the riders.
   CARPOOL. A group of two or more persons commuting on a regular basis to and
from work by means of a vehicle with a seating capacity of nine passengers or
less.
   EMPLOYEE VEHICLE. A motor vehicle used by one or more employees in commuting
to work.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, trust, legal
representative or any organized group of persons that hire or employ
individuals.
   METRA. The Metropolitan Rail Corporation, which is the commuter rail company
of the RTA.
   PACE. The suburban bus company of the Regional Transportation Authority
(RTA) of northeastern Illinois.
   PEAK TRAVEL PERIOD. The time between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., Monday
through Friday.
   TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION. A nonprofit corporation that
coordinates transportation services, including, but not limited to, public
transportation, vanpools, carpools and bicycle and pedestrian modes, as well as
strategies such as flextime, staggered work hours and compressed work weeks for
employers, corporations, employees, developers, individuals and other groups.
   TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT or TRAVEL DEMAND MANAGEMENT. Any method intended
to alleviate traffic-related problems through improved management of vehicle
trip demand and structured to reduce work-related vehicle trips, or to alter
the timing of travel to other, less congested time periods.
   VANPOOL. Seven or more persons commuting on a regular basis to and from work
by means of a commuter van, as defined in § 1-114.1 of the State Motor Vehicle
Code.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 14-B TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT INTENT.
   (A)   The village’s transportation management standards are intended to
reduce traffic volumes throughout the village that are generated by corporate
facilities located in the Corporate Campus District during peak travel periods.
Such standards are also intended to promote energy conservation and reduce air
pollution by decreasing vehicle trips and increasing vehicle occupancy and to
reduce the amount of paved surfaces needed for parking in the Corporate Campus
District. The village intends to foster new transportation management methods
on a village-wide scale in a comprehensive and coordinated manner to meet these
goals. The standards are requirements for each facility located in the
Corporate Campus District.
   (B)   In addition to the above-stated goals, the federal Clean Air Act
Amendments of 1990 require that northeastern Illinois submit a State
Implementation Plan (SIP) by November, 1992. The SIP must include an Employer
Trip Reduction (ETR) Ordinance.
   (C)   The ETR will require employers with 100 or more employees to increase
their average passenger occupancy (APO) by 25% over the regional average
vehicle occupancy (AVO) as determined by the Chicago Area Transportation Study
(CATS). Within two years of the date the SIP is submitted, employers must
submit compliance plans that convincingly demonstrate that compliance will be
achieved no later than four years after the SIP is submitted. Each employer
must also submit a maintenance plan and be required to demonstrate compliance
no less than every two years.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 14-C TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   Each company locating in the Corporate Campus District shall prepare a
transportation management plan with a goal of increasing APO during peak travel
periods by 25% over the regional AVO. If the goal of reducing parking by 15%
can be met in the transportation management plan then a corresponding 15%
reduction may be made to the amount of parking required. (See Article 13.) Such
a plan shall be included in the project development report required for
submittal to the village during the final plan phase of a project. Such a plan
shall address the village’s transportation standards and any other appropriate
transportation management techniques.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 14-D TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION.
   All companies located in the Corporate Campus District shall agree to join
and participate in a village-wide Transportation Management Association (TMA).
The Association’s main purpose will be to coordinate efforts of the village and
area companies to reduce peak hour traffic volumes. All companies located in
the Corporate Campus District will provide an annual report regarding the
progress of the transportation management plans originally submitted to the
village. The TMA shall be funded by a dues structure based on the number of
employees for employers and building square footage by developers. The TMA dues
structure shall be established by the TMA Board of Directors.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 14-E GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following standards or techniques shall be used when preparing
transportation management plans.
   (A)   Carpooling (ridesharing). Each company locating in the Corporate
Campus District shall currently have, establish or participate in within two
months after occupying the facility, a ridesharing program for employees using
their own vehicles who elect to share a ride with two or more people.
   (B)   Van/bus pooling. Each company locating in the Corporate Campus
District shall currently have or establish within two months after occupying
the facility, a van/bus pooling program for employees who live in a common area
and elect to commute together to/from the facility and their residences or from
the facility to/from local commuter rail stations. Such a program will
incorporate the use of corporate or PACE sponsored buses, vans or cars.
   (C)   Preferential parking. Any corporation providing personal, corporate or
PACE vehicle-pooling programs shall reserve special parking spaces in employee
parking areas. Such spaces shall be located close to the building and main
entrances as an incentive for employee participation in such programs. Location
of such spaces shall not conflict with the location of designated handicapped
parking spaces near buildings and main entrances. Such spaces are to be marked
“Vehicle Pooling Program.”
   (D)   Alternative work hours. Each company locating in the Corporate Campus
District shall currently have or establish within two months after occupying
the facility, a program of alternative work hours, shifting travel to work to
less congested hours. Alternative work hours may include flextime, adjustable
work hours, staggered work hours and compressed work weeks.
   (E)   Commuter bus service.
      (1)   Site design for all facilities developed within the Corporate
Campus District shall consider the long-range potential for village or regional
transit service. Eventually as the village and surrounding area grow, regular
commuter bus service may become feasible. Such service may be used to provide
access between the different land use districts throughout the village and
eventually to a new commuter rail station along the AMTRAK line east of the
Tollway if such a station is determined feasible in the future.
      (2)   All site plans shall provide for future bus turnouts at the main
entrances to the site. If main buildings are located greater than 1,000 feet
from adjacent arterial roads then consideration shall also be given to the
potential for providing bus access within the site closer to the building or
buildings. Construction of bus shelters, benches, transit signs and pavement
markings is not required until commuter bus service is established. Short,
convenient walkways shall be provided to the future bus stops from the main
building entrances when such service is established.
      (3)   Guidelines for accommodating public transportation in new
development are provided by PACE’s Development Guidelines.
   (F)   Commuter rail service. All facilities developed within the Corporate
Campus District shall consider use of the existing commuter rail station
located in Libertyville. Consideration shall also be given to the long-range
potential for additional regional commuter rail service using the AMTRAK line
just east of the Tollway at Wadsworth Road or Lake Villa if a new Metra line is
established between Libertyville and Antioch. Incentives such as corporate bus
service to the stations and employee subsidized fare programs shall be
considered to encourage use of transit.
   (G)   Employee Transportation Coordinator. Each company locating in the
Corporate Campus District shall designate at least one staff member as the
company’s Employee Transportation Coordinator (ETC). The ETC will participate
in TMA activities and be responsible for implementation of the company’s
transportation management plan. Other ETC activities may include program
marketing, management support, ride-matching, transit assistance and
monitoring.
   (H)   Employer transit subsidies. Employers shall consider providing
employees transit subsidies to encourage the use of public transit as an
alternative to driving to work. Subsidizing the use of public transportation
may include cash subsidies for the partial or total purchase of transit fares
or passes or participation in the Regional Transportation Authority’s (RTA)
transit check program.
   (I)   Walking/bicycling promotion. To encourage walking and bicycling as an
alternative to driving, employers shall provide bicycle storage areas.
   (J)   Guaranteed ride home. Employers shall consider participating in a
guaranteed ride home program for transit riders and car/bus/van poolers by
providing a low-cost backup ride home. This may include cash reimbursements,
cab vouchers, use of rental cars or company-owned vehicles.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 14-F EVALUATION/MONITORING.
   (A)   Monitoring and evaluation of transportation management plans shall
occur annually. This will enable employers to gather facts regarding the
success of individual program components and determine if further activities
are needed. At a minimum, monitoring shall include annual travel surveys to
determine the company’s APO. Additional surveys may be conducted to collect
qualitative data.
   (B)   In addition, the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 require employers of
100 or more to demonstrate compliance no less than every two years.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 15. SIGN STANDARDS
§ 15-A INTENT.
   This article establishes standards for the design, erection, display, safety
and maintenance of signs. The purpose of signage is to help pedestrians and
motorists find what they need with minimal difficulty or confusion, while not
adversely impacting the function or visual character of an area. The village
has established sign standards for controlling the number, design and location
of signs, for treating similar types of signs consistently, and for preventing
an overload of graphic messages or displays in the environment of the village.
Signs shall be subordinate to the structures and land use functions they serve
and shall enhance the general attractiveness, historic quality and unique
character of the village. They are to be considered accessory components of an
overall composition of architectural elements, not as dominant architectural
elements themselves.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 15-B SIGN PERMITS.
   (A)   No commercial sign or any sign erected in connection with any
election, referendum or political campaign of any size, nor any other sign in
excess of 20 square feet in area, shall be constructed, erected, moved,
enlarged, illuminated or substantially altered without first obtaining a sign
permit from the Planning Director. No such permit shall be issued unless the
application fee is paid and the proposed sign conforms with the requirements of
this code.
   (B)   Repainting or changing the message of a sign shall not, in and of
itself, be considered a substantial alteration, as long as such changes comply
with provisions of this article.
   (C)   If plans submitted for a zoning permit or special use permit include
sign plans in sufficient detail that the village can determine whether the
proposed sign or signs comply with the provisions of this article, then
issuance of the requested zoning or special use permit shall constitute
approval of the proposed sign or signs.
   (D)   Sign permit applications and sign permits shall be governed by the
requirements of Articles 16 and 17.
   (E)   In the case of a lot occupied or intended to be occupied by multiple
business enterprises (e.g., a shopping center), sign permits shall be issued in
the name of the lot owner or his or her agent rather than in the name of the
individual business enterprise requesting a particular sign. The village may
assist the owner by suggesting a formula whereby the maximum square footage of
sign area allowed on the lot may be allocated equitably among all tenants, but
the village shall be responsible for enforcing only the provisions of this
article and not the provisions of any allocation formula, lease or other
private restriction.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2007-0-5, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 15-C TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   The following temporary signs are permitted without a sign permit.
However, such signs shall conform to the requirements set forth below as well
as all other applicable requirements of this article.
      (1)   Real estate signs containing a message that the property on which
the sign is located (including buildings) is for sale, lease or rent, together
with information identifying the owner or agent. Such signs may not exceed four
square feet in area and shall be removed within 21 days after sale, lease or
rental. For lots of less than five acres, a single sign on each street frontage
may be erected. For lots of five acres or more in area and having a street
frontage in excess of 400 feet, a second sign not exceeding four square feet in
area may be erected on the same street frontage. Signs announcing an open house
may not exceed two signs per open house. Real estate signs outlined above shall
not be illuminated.
      (2)   (a)   Construction site identification signs may identify the
project, the owner or developer, planner, architect, landscape architect,
engineer, contractor, subcontractors and funding sources, and may contain
related information, including, but not limited to, sale or leasing
information.
         (b)   Not more than one such sign may be erected per site, and it may
not exceed 32 square feet in area, nor be illuminated. Such signs shall not be
erected prior to the issuance of a building permit and shall be removed within
ten days after the issuance of the final occupancy permit. Construction signs
for residential remodeling and additions, including all accessory structures,
are restricted to inside window locations only.
      (3)   Signs attached temporarily to the interior of a building window or
glass door may not cover more than 50% of the surface area of the transparent
portion of the window or door to which they are attached. Such signs shall be
removed within 30 days after placement.
      (4)   Displays, including lighting, erected in connection with the
observance of holidays shall be removed within ten days following the holiday
(s).
      (5)   Signs indicating that a special event such as a grand opening,
fair, carnival, circus, festival or similar event is to take place located on
the lot where the sign is located may be erected not sooner than two weeks
before the event and must be removed not later than three days after the event,
except in the case of banners as provided for in § 15-F.
      (6)   Other temporary signs not covered above, so long as such signs meet
the following restrictions.
         (a)   Not more than one such sign may be located on any lot.
         (b)   No such sign may exceed four square feet in surface area.
         (c)   Such sign may not be displayed for longer than three consecutive
days nor more than ten days out of any 365-day period.
   (B)   Other signs not covered above shall be regarded and treated in all
respects as permanent signs.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 15-D EXEMPTED SIGNS.
   The following signs are exempt from regulation under this article, except if
such signs are included in § 15-E:
   (A)   Signs not exceeding four square feet in area that are customarily
associated with residential use and that are not of a commercial nature, such
as signs giving property identification names or numbers or names of occupants,
signs on mailboxes or newspaper tubes and signs posted on private property
relating to private parking or warning the public against trespassing or danger
from animals;
   (B)   Signs erected by a governmental body, including legal notices,
identification and information signs and traffic, directional or regulatory
signs;
   (C)   Flags, pennants or insignia not exceeding six square feet in area of
any governmental or nonprofit organization when not displayed in connection
with a commercial or political promotion or as an advertising device;
   (D)   Signs directing and guiding traffic on private property that do not
exceed four square feet each and that bear no advertising message;
   (E)   Signs painted on or otherwise permanently attached to currently
licensed motor vehicles that are not primarily used as signs;
   (F)   Memorial signs, plaques, tablets, grave markers or statuary that do
not exceed four square feet in area;
   (G)   Directional signs not exceeding two square feet in gross surface area
displayed strictly for the direction, safety or convenience of the public,
including signs which identify restrooms, telephones, freight entrances and the
like; and
   (H)   Permanent non-flashing signs on vending machines, gas pumps or ice
containers indicating the contents of such devices and limited in size to three
square feet.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 15-E PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited:
   (A)   Signs that violate state laws relating to outdoor advertising,
including 225 ILCS 440/1 et seq.;
   (B)   Signs that are located anywhere other than on the property or
structure to which it directs attention, except any sign erected or maintained
by or under the supervision of county or other governmental authority, and any
other sign which is specifically provided for in this article;
   (C)   Signs that outline any building or part thereof with neon or other
lights;
   (D)   Signs that are fastened, placed, painted, pasted or attached in any
way to any tree fence, public utility pole, rock, curbstone, sidewalk, lamp
post, hydrant, bridge, highway marker or another sign except such as may be
required by law, so placed by a duly authorized governmental agency, or so
placed not as an advertisement, but as a warning against hunting, fishing,
dumping or trespassing;
   (E)   Illuminated signs which reflect or cast glare, directly or indirectly,
on any public roadway or adjacent property;
   (F)   Any sign located so that it substantially interferes with the view
necessary for motorists to proceed safely through intersections or to enter
onto or exit from public or private roads and streets;
   (G)   Signs that revolve or are animated or that utilize movement or
apparent movement to attract the attention of the public. Without limiting the
foregoing, banners, streamers, animated display boards, pennants and propellers
are prohibited. Signs that only move occasionally because of wind are not
prohibited if their movement is not a primary design feature of the sign, and
is not intended to attract attention to the sign;
   (H)   No sign shall be erected so that by its location, color, size, shape,
nature or message would tend to obstruct the view of or be confused with
official traffic signs or other signs erected by governmental agencies;
   (I)   Any billboard (as defined in Article 19);
   (J)   Signs erected on the roof or above the parapet line of any building or
structure;
   (K)   Wall signs painted on masonry or frame walls, roofs or fences. All
existing wall signs painted on masonry or frame walls, roofs or fences shall be
removed within three years from the effective date of this section;
   (L)   No sign, streamer, banner, flag, pennant or other advertising
structure shall encroach upon, over or across any public street, alley,
sidewalk, parkway or park except as provided for in § 15-K;
   (M)   No sign, other than an authorized temporary sign, may be erected on
vacant property;
   (N)   Signs on awnings, marquees and canopies shall be considered to be wall
signs under the terms of this article and are subject to applicable
regulations;
   (O)   Any moving or flashing sign or any other moving or flashing
advertising device, except where such signs are located within enclosed
buildings and are not observable from the exterior of such buildings;
   (P)   Any sign which either simultaneously or alternately displays the time
and temperature. Clocks, either of the traditional type or the digital type,
shall be permitted. No signage will be permitted on the clock face or clock
face enclosure. If any signage is so placed or the clock is incorporated into
an otherwise permitted business sign, the area of the clock and the clock
enclosure will be included in the gross surface area of the sign;
   (Q)   Signs identifying any home occupation in any residential district; and
   (R)   Any sign not listed in §§ 15-D or 15-F.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2007-0-5, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 15-F PERMITTED SIGNS.
   Only signs described as follows shall be permitted, and these shall be
subject to the standards in each case and to all other regulations in this
code:
   (A)   Signs erected and maintained by government authorities in accordance
with law;
   (B)   Official signs of a noncommercial nature erected by public utilities.
Such signs can be no longer than four square feet;
   (C)   Historical markers erected by duly authorized public authorities;
   (D)   Danger, aviation, railroad, bridge, Red Cross and other signs as set
forth in 605 ILCS 5/9-112 et seq.;
   (E)   Hunting, fishing, dumping and trespassing signs erected on the
property solely as a warning or notice. Such signs shall not exceed an area of
one and one-half square feet and shall not be illuminated;
   (F)   Informational signs of a public or quasi-public nature identifying or
locating a town, planned community, hospital, community center, public building
or historical place situated in the county, and also signs identifying or
locating a school, college, YMCA, YWCA, church or similar board of trade,
service club, soil conservation activity, 4-H Club, Chamber of Commerce or
similar public or quasi-public activity for civic, educational or cultural
purpose and signs drawing attention to public parking lots related to such
places or activities. Such signs shall:
      (1)   Not exceed an area of six square feet, nor a total of 24 square
feet for all signs for a particular site;
      (2)   Not be illuminated, except emergency entrance signs to hospital;
contain no advertising matter;
      (3)   Be set back according to all buildings setback and scenic easements
as set forth in this section; and
      (4)   Not be mounted or placed on any wall or fence.
   (G)   Official notices posted or displayed by or under the direction of any
public or court officer in the performance of his or her official or directed
duties, or by trustees under deeds of trust, deeds of assignment or similar
instruments. Such signs shall:
      (1)   Not exceed an area of two square feet;
      (2)   Not be illuminated; or
      (3)   Contain no advertising matter other than that which may be required
by law.
   (H)   Religious signs shall be located on church property. Such signs shall:
      (1)   Not exceed one sign per abutting street;
      (2)   Not exceed 16 square feet; and
      (3)   Not be internally illuminated.
   (I)   Property/name identification signs upon property displaying the name
and/or address of the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises. To facilitate
identification of all buildings by emergency services, delivery vehicles and
motorists, all buildings within the village shall display road/street address
numbers which can be easily identified when traveling within 50 feet of a
building except those buildings located in the Corporate Campus District.
Individual properties within the Corporate Campus District shall be identified
by name and road/street number at all entrances from the village’s arterial
roads. Vanity addresses or corporate names as the sole method of identification
is prohibited. If more than one building is to be located within a site within
the Corporate Campus District, each building shall be easily identified with
street numbers once a vehicle has traveled to the buildings. Such signs shall:
      (1)   Not exceed two square feet gross surface area for single-family
residential, and four square feet for multiple-family residential units, with
only one such sign permitted per dwelling, lot or property; or two per corner
lot, one facing each street;
      (2)   Not be located higher than the first story of the building or more
than 15 feet above the curbline and shall not extend over any lot line except
for identification on corporate facilities which can be located above the first
story;
      (3)   Contain not more than two exposed faces, not exceeding 12 square
feet per face for a residential planned development; and
      (4)   Contain no advertising matter.
   (J)   Bed and breakfast/country inn signs announcing accommodations only
when located on the premises. Such signs shall not exceed a total area of six
square feet, and only two such signs per lot shall be permitted and may be
illuminated by using white lights only;
   (K)   Farm signs erected or maintained on any farm by the owner or tenant of
such farm and relating solely to farm or horticultural produce, livestock or
services sold, produced, manufactured or furnished on such farm. Such signs
shall not exceed a total area of 12 square feet and only two such signs on one
farm property shall be permitted except that total area may be 25 square feet
if set back 40 feet or more from the street or highway edge of pavement;
   (L)   Wayside stand/temporary sales signs erected or maintained on any farm
by the owner or tenant of such farm and relating solely to farm or
horticultural produce, and other seasonal goods, livestock or other merchandise
sold from said stand and produced on the farm property where the signs are
located. Such signs shall not exceed 30 square feet and not more than three
wayside stand signs upon each farm property (in addition to the farm signs
permitted above) shall be allowed. The maximum area of any one of the five
allowable signs shall be 25 square feet, and the total area of the three
largest signs shall not exceed 40 square feet;
   (M)   Store window signs or displays on or within store windows relating to
the business conducted within; or to amusements or civic, religious, cultural,
educational or charitable activities. Such signs shall not cover more than 50%
of the surface area of the transparent portion of the window where they are
located;
   (N)   Business signs of a character which have not been listed or described
previously in this article; provided, that they advertise only goods or
services offered on the premises and subject to the following: In any Special
Retail or Corporate Campus Districts there shall be permitted three business
signs per lot, no one of which shall exceed an area of 30 square feet in the
case of a Special Retail District, and 60 square feet in a Corporate Campus
District, and the aggregate sign area shall not exceed 60 square feet, provided
they are set back from the fronting road/street right-of-way not less than 50
feet. One sign shall be permitted in addition to signs above, which shall not
exceed 75 square feet; and
   (O)   Signs erected in connection with any election, referendum or political
campaign not greater than four square feet. There will be no permit fee for
such sign. All said signs shall be removed within two days of the relevant
election or balloting.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2007-0-5, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 15-G FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   (A)   Except as authorized by this section, no site may have more than two
freestanding signs.
   (B)   If a site is located on a corner lot that has at least 100 feet of
frontage on each of the two intersecting public streets, then the site shall
not have more than one freestanding sign along each side of the site
development bordered by such streets.
   (C)   If a site is located on a lot that is bordered by two public roads/
streets that do not intersect at the lot’s boundaries (double front lot), then
the site may have not more than one freestanding sign on each side of the site
bordered by such roads/streets.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, a side of a freestanding sign is any
plane or flat surface included in the calculation of the total sign surface
area as provided in this article. For example, wall signs typically have one
side. Freestanding signs typically have two sides (back-to-back), although
four-sided and other multi-sided signs are also possible.
   (E)   A single side of a freestanding sign shall not exceed three-tenths
square feet in surface area for every linear foot of street frontage along the
street toward which such sign is primarily oriented. However, in no case shall
a single side of a freestanding sign exceed 50 square feet in surface area if
the lot on which the sign is located has less than 200 feet of frontage on the
street toward which that sign is primarily oriented, or 75 square feet on lots
with 200 or more feet of frontage.
   (F)   Freestanding signs that have no discernible sides, such as spheres or
other shapes not composed of flat planes may not exceed the maximum total
surface area allowed for a single side of a freestanding sign.
   (G)   Freestanding signs shall be securely fastened to the ground or to some
other substantial supportive structure so that there is no danger that either
the sign or the supportive structure may be moved by the wind or other forces
of nature and cause injury to persons or property.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 15-H SIGN AREA/NUMBER.
   (A)   For the purpose of determining the number of signs, a sign shall be
considered to be single display surface or display device containing elements
organized, related and composed to form a unit. Where matter is displayed in a
random manner without organized relationship of elements, each element shall be
considered a single sign.
   (B)   A two-sided or multi-sided sign shall be regarded as one sign so long
as:
      (1)   For a V-type sign, the two sides are at no point separated by a
distance that exceeds five feet; and
      (2)   For double faced (back-to-back) signs, the distance between the
backs of each face of the sign does not exceed three feet.
   (C)   The surface area of a sign shall be calculated by including the entire
area within a single, continuous perimeter of not more than eight straight
lines, or a circle or an ellipse, enclosing the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework or bracing that is clearly
incidental to the display itself.
   (D)   If the sign consists of more than one section or module, all of the
area, including that between sections or modules, shall be included in the
computation of the sign area.
   (E)   For two-side, multi-sided or three-dimensional signs, the sign surface
area shall be computed by including the total of all sides designed to attract
attention or communicate information that can be seen at any one time by a
person from one vantage point without otherwise limiting the generality of the
foregoing.
      (1)   The sign surface area of a double-faced, back-to-back sign shall be
calculated by using the area of only one side of such sign, so long as the
distance between the backs of such signs does not exceed three feet.
      (2)   The sign surface area of double faced sign constructed in the form
of a “V” shall be calculated by using the area of only one side of such sign
(the larger side if there is a size difference), so long as the angle of the
“V” does not exceed 30 degrees and at no point does the distance between the
backs of such sides exceed five feet.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 15-I SIGN LOCATION/HEIGHT.
   (A)   No sign may extend above any parapet or be placed upon any roof
surface.
   (B)   No wall sign attached to a building may project more than six inches
from the building wall and shall be integrated into the building design.
   (C)   No sign or supporting structure may be located in or over the traveled
portion of any public right-of-way unless the sign is attached to a structural
element of a building.
   (D)   No part of a freestanding sign may exceed a height, measured from
ground level of 12 feet.
   (E)   No freestanding signs shall be located within the lot setback
requirements or 30 feet from a public right-of-way, whichever is closer.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 15-J SIGN ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   Signs may be illuminated if not prohibited elsewhere in this article
and when in accordance with this section. No sign within 150 feet of a
residential district may be illuminated between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:
00 a.m. unless the impact of such lighting beyond the boundaries of the lot
where it is located is inconsequential.
   (B)   No sign shall be illuminated by any red, yellow, orange, green or
other colored light in such a manner as may interfere with, mislead or confuse
traffic movement.
   (C)   Electrical equipment or wiring used to illuminate signs shall not be
visible on any building face. All electrical equipment including lights, lamps
and fixtures illuminating ground level signs shall be screened from view.
   (D)   Temporary signs shall not be illuminated in any manner.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 15-K SPECIAL RETAIL/VILLAGE CENTER DISTRICTS.
   To encourage visual compatibility with the small town scale and character of
the Village Center District and Special Retail Districts, additional sign
regulations pertaining to the location, number, materials, size, color and
types of signs are applicable in those districts as follows.
   (A)   There shall be no more than three types of signs used per building,
regardless of number of occupancies (e.g., freestanding, awning, window; or
wall, window and awning). Each ground floor occupant of a building may display
two signs and each occupant in an upper level of a building may display one
sign.
   (B)   Preferred sign types are as follows:
      (1)   Freestanding;
      (2)   Wall;
      (3)   Window;
      (4)   Projecting;
      (5)   Awning;
      (6)   Neon (custom-designed neon window sign only);
      (7)   Landmark marquee; and
      (8)   Banner.
   (C)   All signs shall be made of wood or metal except where the sign is
painted or printed directly into the fabric cover of an awning, or face of a
banner. If plywood is used, it must have exceptionally smooth and weather-
resistant surfaces, such as those obtained with medium density overlay board.
   (D)   Signs shall be located near the pedestrian level and shall not clutter
upper building facades or obscure architectural details or features such as
windows, transom panels, sills, moldings and cornices. Wall signs identifying
retail/commercial establishments shall be placed within an information band
immediately above the storefront, confined to the vertical distance separating
windows on the ground and the second floors and be no more than two feet in
height. Signs shall be coordinated in height and proportion with similar signs
on adjacent storefronts within the same building.
   (E)   Colors shall be chosen to complement, not clash with the facade color
of the building. Signs shall not contain more than three colors, except in
instances of a color illustration. Traditional painted dark backgrounds with
light-colored lettering is preferred. “Day-glow” colors are prohibited.
   (F)   Sign size shall be restricted to not more than one and one-half square
feet of total signage area per linear foot of storefront.
   (G)   Letters and symbols may be attached to an awning, marquee, building
surface or wall and shall:
      (1)   Not project more than six inches from the surface to which they are
attached;
      (2)   Not obscure the architectural features of the building to which
they are attached;
      (3)   Not extend above the lowest part of the roof, nor beyond the ends
of the wall to which they are attached; and
      (4)   Not have an aggregate area exceeding one and one-half square feet
for each foot of building face parallel to a street lot line, or 10% of the
wall area to which they are affixed, whichever is less. When a lot fronts on
more than one street, the aggregate sign area facing each street frontage shall
be calculated separately.
   (H)   Moveable signs may be allowed by special permit and shall be made only
of wood and standing on legs not over four feet in total height. Because the
Village Center and Special Retail Districts have a pedestrian orientation, a
smaller personal scale of the freestanding moveable sign is appropriate.
   (I)   Marquee signs painted on or attached to a permanent overhanging
shelter projecting from the building face shall be allowed by special permit,
and must be flat against the surface, not extending beyond or attached to the
underside of the overhang. Letters shall not exceed eight inches in height. A
minimum clearance of nine feet above the sidewalk level must be maintained for
pedestrian clearance.
   (J)   Neon window signs shall be allowed by special permit permitted for
cases where they are custom designed to be compatible with the building’s
historic and architectural character, and where their color has been selected
to harmonize with the building’s exterior colors.
   (K)   Painted wall signs (message or mural) shall require a special permit
and shall comply with the dimensional requirements of wall signs. Exceptions
are granted to landmark signs which may be preserved and maintained, even if
they no longer pertain to the present use on the premises.
   (L)   Awning signs shall be painted on or attached flat against the surface
of the awning but not extend beyond the valance or attached to the underside.
Letters shall not exceed ten inches in height. A minimum clearance of eight
feet above the sidewalk level must be maintained.
   (M)   Pole and bracket mounted banners shall be permitted as follows.
      (1)   Pole and bracket mounted banners shall be limited to that type of
banner which is displayed between two supporting/display brackets mounted on a
privately owned light standard (pole) in a parking lot or along a driveway.
Display brackets shall be removed when not in use or folded against the pole.
Banners extending between two light standards (poles) are prohibited. Banners
may only be accessory to a light standard (pole). Banners may not extend over
any property line.
      (2)   Banners may display the name and/or logo of a retail center or
establishment address or location, seasonal messages or graphics or information
announcing village-wide events. Not more than 25% of the area of the banner
face may display a business name or logo.
      (3)   A building permit shall be required for the installation of the
supporting/display brackets. A sign permit shall also be required for each
group of banners to be installed.
      (4)   Each individual banner shall be considered a single sign for the
purpose of this code. Two banners displayed on a single light standard (pole)
shall be considered two separate signs for determining the area of the sign
face. No more than two banners shall be displayed on a single light pole.
      (5)   Banners may not exceed 21 square feet per face and shall not have
more than two sign faces. Only the area of the actual banner itself shall be
counted in determining the area or the sign face.
      (6)   A banner shall only be displayed on a light standard (pole) and may
not extend higher than the pole on which it is mounted. The lower bracket used
to support or display the banner must be erected at a sufficient height so as
not to cause a traffic or safety hazard but in no case be less than nine feet.
      (7)   All banners shall be maintained in a safe and aesthetically
pleasing condition. Banners which become illegible, damaged or are otherwise in
poor condition shall be removed.
      (8)   Pole mounted banners may only be displayed for a period of up to 60
days, at the expiration of which period the permittee shall immediately remove
the banners and mounting brackets if the brackets are not designed to fold
against the pole. No more than three permits for such banners shall be issued
for the same establishment in one calendar year. If the Planning Director finds
that the banners so authorized have caused traffic or safety problems and have
not been maintained in good condition, said permit may be revoked.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1301.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1303.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1305.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1307.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 15-L SIGN CONSTRUCTION/MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All signs and components, including supports, braces and anchors,
shall be kept in a state of good repair. With respect to freestanding signs,
components (supporting structures, backs and the like) not bearing a message
shall be constructed of materials and painted to blend with the natural
environment.
   (B)   If a sign advertises a business, service, commodity, accommodation,
attraction or other enterprise or activity that is no longer operating that
sign shall be considered abandoned and shall, within 30 days after such
abandonment, be removed by the sign owner, owner of the property where the sign
is located or other party having control over such sign.
   (C)   If the message portion of a sign is removed, leaving only the
supporting “shell” of a sign and/or the supporting braces, anchors or similar
components, the owner of the sign or the owner of the property where the sign
is located or other person having control over such sign shall, within 30 days
of the removal of the message portion of the sign, either replace the entire
message portion of the sign or remove the remaining components of the sign.
This division (C) shall not be construed to alter the effect of § 15-M, which
prohibits the replacement of a nonconforming sign, nor be construed to prevent
the changing of the message of a sign.
   (D)   The area within ten feet in all directions of any part of a
freestanding sign shall be kept clear of all debris and all undergrowth more
than two feet in height. The area between a sign and public way, regardless of
distance or separation, shall also be kept clear of all debris and undergrowth
more than two feet in height.
   (E)   No person may, for the purpose of increasing or enhancing the
visibility of any sign, damage, trim, destroy or remove any trees, shrubs or
other vegetation located:
      (1)   Within the right-of-way of any public street or road, unless the
work is done pursuant to the express written authorization of the agency having
jurisdiction over the right-of-way;
      (2)   On property that is not under the ownership or control of the
person doing or responsible for such work, unless the work is done pursuant to
the express authorization of the person owning the property where such trees or
shrubs are located; or
      (3)   In any area where such trees or shrubs are required to remain under
a permit issued under this article.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 15-M NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Subject to the remaining restrictions of this section, nonconforming
signs that were otherwise lawful on the effective date of this article may be
continued until they are required to be removed under this division (A).
   (B)   No nonconforming sign may be enlarged or altered in such a manner as
to aggravate the nonconforming condition, nor may illumination be added to any
nonconforming sign.
   (C)   A nonconforming sign may not be moved or replaced except to bring the
sign into complete conformity with this article.
   (D)   If a nonconforming sign is destroyed by natural causes, it may not
thereafter be repaired, reconstructed or replaced except in conformity with all
the provisions of this article, the remnants of the former sign structure shall
be cleared from the land. For purposes of this section, a nonconforming sign is
“destroyed” if damaged to an extent that the cost of repairing the sign to its
former stature or replacing it with an equivalent sign equals or exceeds the
value (tax value if listed for tax purposes) of the sign so damaged.
   (E)   The message of a nonconforming sign may be changed so long as this
does not create any new nonconformities.
   (F)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, nonconforming signs
may be repaired and renovated so long as the cost of such work does not exceed
within any 12-month period 50% of the value (tax value if listed for tax
purposes) of such sign.
   (G)   If a nonconforming sign other than a billboard advertises a business,
service, commodity, accommodation, attraction or other enterprise or activity
that is no longer operating or being offered or conducted, that sign shall be
considered abandoned and shall be removed within 30 days after such abandonment
by the sign owner, owner of the property where the sign is located or other
party having control over such sign.
   (H)   If a nonconforming billboard remains blank for a continuous period of
180 days, that billboard shall be deemed abandoned and shall, within 30 days
after such abandonment, be altered to comply with this article or be removed by
the sign owner, owner of the property where the sign is located, or other
person having control over such sign. For purposes of this section, a sign is
“blank” if:
      (1)   It advertises a business, service, commodity, accommodation,
attraction or other enterprise or activity that is no longer operating or being
offered or conducted;
      (2)   The advertising message it displays become illegible in whole or
substantial part; or
      (3)   The advertising copy paid for by a party other than the sign owner
or promoting an interest other than the rental of the sign has been removed.
   (I)   As soon as reasonably possible after the effective date of this code,
the Planning Director shall make every reasonable effort to identify all the
nonconforming signs within the village’s planning jurisdiction. He or she shall
then contact the person responsible for each such sign (as well as the owner of
the property where the nonconforming sign is located, if different from the
former) and inform such person that the sign is nonconforming, how it is
nonconforming, what must be done to correct it and by what date and the
consequences of failure to make the necessary corrections. The Planning
Director shall keep complete records of all correspondence, communications and
other actions taken with respect to such nonconforming signs.
   (J)   Subject to the remaining divisions of this section, a nonconforming
sign that exceeds the height, size or spacing limitations by more than 10% or
that is nonconforming in some other way shall, within three years after the
effective date of this article, be altered to comply with the provisions of
this article or be removed.
   (K)   If the nonconformity consists of too many freestanding signs on a
single lot or an excess of total sign area on a single lot, the person
responsible for the violation may determine which sign or signs need to be
altered or removed to bring the development into conformity with the provisions
of this article.
   (L)   The following types of nonconforming signs or signs that are
nonconforming in any of the following ways shall be altered to comply with the
provisions of this article or removed within 90 days after the effective date
of this code:
      (1)   Portable signs and temporary signs;
      (2)   Signs that are in violation of §§ 15-E through 15-J; and
      (3)   Off-premises signs that are protected from enforced removal by the
Highway Advertising Control Act of 1971, 225 ILCS 440/1 et seq. shall not be
subject to the provisions of this section unless and until just compensation is
provided in accordance with the statute.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 15-N ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This article shall be administered and enforced by the Building
Commissioner who shall have the following duties:
      (1)   To receive all applications for permits;
      (2)   To perform the review and inspections required by this article;
      (3)   To enforce, as appropriate, the other laws and ordinances of the
city as the same apply to the erection and maintenance of signs and other
outdoor advertising structures;
      (4)   To issue all permits in conformance with this article;
      (5)   To issue all citations or notices of violations required by this
article;
      (6)   Collect all fees for permits and issue all notices of annual fees
and collect all annual fees as required by this article;
      (7)   To maintain accurate records of all permits, inspections,
citations, violations, variations and fees and make such records available for
public inspection during normal business hours; and
      (8)   To perform such other ministerial acts as are specifically required
by this article.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500, and each day upon which such a violation
occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1995-0-2, passed 2-13-1995)
ARTICLE 16. PROJECT APPROVAL PROCESS
§ 16-A INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   This article establishes the village’s process for reviewing and
approving the following:
      (1)   Signs;
      (2)   Zoning variations;
      (3)   Special uses;
      (4)   Zoning amendments; and
      (5)   Planned developments.
   (B)   The administration of this code is hereby vested in the offices of the
Planning Director, Zoning Board of Appeals and the Plan Commission. This
article establishes the duties and responsibilities of each of these village
offices.
   (C)   The Village Board shall have the authority to hold public hearings
required by the Plan Commission for the above review and approval process for
variations, special uses, amendments and Planned Developments matters where the
Plan Commission has not been expedient and/or special circumstances require
immediate action. In such situations, the Village Board may make a final
determination without recommendation by the Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2007-0-8, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 16-B SIGNS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall erect, alter or relocate within the
village any commercial sign of any size or any other sign in excess of 20
square feet in area without first obtaining a permit from the Planning Director
with the following exceptions:
      (1)   The temporary signs indicated in § 15-C;
      (2)   The signs exempt from the regulations of this code as indicated in
§ 15-D; and
      (3)   Changing of the copy of a sign, bulletin board or marquee or
maintenance where no structural or electrical changes are made or changing of
interchangeable letters on signs designed for use of interchangeable letters.
   (B)   Sign permit application. An application for a sign permit shall be
filed on forms provided by the village (see § 17-B). The application for a sign
permit shall be submitted to the Planning Director and shall be accompanied by
payment of the required fees and such site plans, sign elevations, location
photographs and other information as the Planning Director may require.
   (C)   Removal of certain signs.
      (1)   Unsafe and unlawful signs.
         (a)   If the Planning Director shall find that any sign or other
advertising structure is unsafe or insecure, or is a danger to the public
safety, or has been constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation
of the provisions of this code, he or she shall give written notice to the
permittee thereof or the owner of the premises where located. If the permittee
or owner fails to repair, remove or alter the structure so as to comply with
the standards herein set forth, within 20 days after giving of such notice,
such sign or other advertising structure may be removed by the Planning
Director at the expense of the person to whom such notice was given.
         (b)   The Planning Director may cause any sign or other advertising
structure which is an immediate peril to persons or property to be removed
without notice and at the expense of the permittee or owner.
      (2)   Obsolete signs. Any signs or other advertising structure now or
hereafter existing, which advertises a business no longer being conducted, or a
product no longer being sold, shall be taken down and removed by the owner,
agent or person having the beneficial use of the building, structure or
premises upon which it may be found, within 20 days after written notification
from the Planning Director. Upon failure to comply with such notice within the
time specific, in such order, the Planning Director is hereby authorized to
cause removal of such sign and any expense incidental thereto shall be paid by
the person to whom such notice was given.
   (D)   Appeals and modifications. Appeals from the decisions of the Planning
Director under this article and all requests for modifications from the
regulations set forth herein shall be made to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1309.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 16-C VARIATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The Zoning Board of Appeals (“ZBA”) shall hear all petitions
for variations and shall recommend variations which are in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of this code and Comprehensive Plan, where the ZBA
has made a finding of fact based upon the standards hereinafter prescribed that
there are practical difficulties or particular hardship in the strict
application of the regulations of this code.
   (B)   Variation application. An application for a variation shall be filed
on forms provided by the village. (See § 17-C.) The application for a variation
shall contain the following information, as well as additional information as
may be requested by the ZBA:
      (1)   The site’s commonly known location (address);
      (2)   The site’s present zoning classification;
      (3)   The particular code requirements which prevent or inhibit the
proposed use;
      (4)   The site’s characteristics which prevent code compliance;
      (5)   The minimum requirements necessary to permit the proposed use;
      (6)   The practical difficulty or particular hardship which would result
if this code’s requirements were applied to the site and/or to the proposed
use;
      (7)   A legal description of the subject property; and
      (8)   Proof of ownership, proof of authority on owner’s behalf or a
current contract to purchase or lease the site. If a land trust owns the
property, disclosure of all beneficial interests is required.
   (C)   Public hearing.
      (1)   The ZBA shall, within 60 days of receiving a complete application
for variation, hold a public hearing.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide notification of the hearing by
certified mail or personal service to each owner of property within 250 feet in
each direction of the subject property, except in those instances where the
applicant seeks a variation from height restrictions, in which case notice
shall be given to each owner of property within 500 feet of the subject
property. The number of feet occupied by public roads, streets, alleys and
other public ways shall be excluded in computing this 250-foot requirement. The
list of property owners shall be provided to the village by the applicant by
affidavit and said list shall contain the names of the last persons paying tax
bills on said parcels for the most recent tax year in which payment has been
made. Such notice shall be given not more than 30 days, nor less than 15 days
before the hearing.
      (3)   The public notice provided by the applicant and published by the
ZBA shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   Date, place, time and purpose of hearing;
         (b)   Legal description of subject property; and
         (c)   Common description of subject property.
      (4)   The ZBA shall publish notice of the hearing at least once, not more
than 30 days nor less than 15 days before the hearing, in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village.
   (D)   Variation standards.
      (1)   Variations shall not be granted except on findings based upon the
evidence in each specific case as follows.
         (a)   The site in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations
governing the district in which it is located.
         (b)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances.
         (c)   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the village.
      (2)   For the purposes of supplementing the above standards, the Village
Board may take into consideration the extent to which the facts favorable to
the applicant have been established by the evidence as follows:
         (a)   The particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the site involved would bring a hardship upon the owner, as
distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict letter of this code were
to be carried out;
         (b)   The conditions upon which the petition for variation is based
would not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
         (c)   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the site;
         (d)   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having an interest in the site;
         (e)   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the site is located; or
         (f)   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the danger of
fire or otherwise endanger the public safety, or substantially diminish or
impair property values within the neighborhood.
   (E)   Decisions.
      (1)   The ZBA may recommend to the Village Board such conditions and
restrictions upon the premises benefited by a variation as may be necessary to
comply with the standards set forth in this section. All decisions and findings
of the ZBA on variations arrived at after the hearing shall, in all instances,
be reported to the Village Board.
      (2)   The Village Board, upon report of the ZBA and without further
public hearing, may grant any proposed variation or may refer it back to the
ZBA for further consideration. Any proposed variation which fails to receive
the approval of the ZBA shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of
two-thirds of the Village Trustees. Variations from the provisions of this code
shall be granted only by the Village Board in the form of an ordinance granting
the variation. Upon receipt of a report and recommendation from the ZBA, the
Village Board may:
         (a)   Refer the application back to the ZBA for further consideration;
or
         (b)   Grant or deny the proposed variation.
      (3)   All decisions and findings of the ZBA on appeals made by the
Planning Director, arrived at after public hearing, shall, in all instances, be
a final administrative determination.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1311.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 16-D SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The development and execution of this code is based upon the
division of the village into districts, within which district the use of land,
and the bulk and location of buildings and structures as related to the land
are substantially uniform.
      (2)   It is recognized, however, that there are special uses which,
because of their unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified in any
particular district or districts without consideration, in each individual
case, of the impact of those special uses upon neighboring land and upon the
public need for the particular special use at the particular location.
      (3)   While specific regulations for specific zoning districts in this
code may recognize particular uses that may be allowable as a special use, all
such special uses fall into two categories:
         (a)   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with the public
interest; and
         (b)   Uses entirely private but of such an unusual nature that the
operation may create unique problems regarding their impact upon neighboring
property or public facilities. Such uses may include planned developments
meeting the standards and requirements of this code.
   (B)   Special use application. An application for a special use shall be
filed on forms provided by the village. (See § 17-D.) The application shall be
processed in the manner prescribed for amendments and shall be accompanied by
the following information and any such additional information as may be
required by the Plan Commission:
      (1)   The site’s commonly known location (address);
      (2)   The site’s present zoning classification;
      (3)   The legal description of the subject property;
      (4)   Proof of ownership or proof of authority on owner’s behalf or
current contract to purchase or lease the site. If a land trust owns the
property, disclosure of all beneficial interests is required; and
      (5)   Same plan information as planned development. (See Article 17.)
   (C)   Public hearing.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall, within 60 days of receiving a complete
application for a special use, hold a public hearing.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide notification of the hearing by
certified mail or personal service to each owner of property within 250 feet in
each direction of the subject property. The number of feet occupied by public
roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in computing
this 250-foot requirement. The list of property owners shall be provided to the
village by the applicant by affidavit, and said list shall contain the names of
the last persons paying tax bills on said parcels for the most recent tax year
in which payment has been made. Such notice shall be given not more than 30
days, nor less than 15 days before the hearing.
      (3)   The public notice provided by the applicant shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
         (a)   Date, place, time and purpose of hearing;
         (b)   Legal description of subject property; and
         (c)   Common description of subject property.
      (4)   The Plan Commission shall publish notice of the hearing at least
once, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days before the hearing, in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village.
   (D)   Special use standards. No special use shall be granted by the Village
Board unless the special use:
      (1)   Is deemed necessary for the public convenience;
      (2)   Is so designed, located and proposed to be operated that the public
health, safety and welfare will be protected; and
      (3)   Will not cause substantial injury to the value of other property in
the neighborhood in which it is located.
   (E)   Recommendation. Within 60 days after the close of the hearing on the
proposed special use, the Plan Commission shall forward written findings of
fact and recommendation regarding the application to the Village Board.
   (F)   Decisions. As part of its decision, the Village Board may provide such
conditions and restrictions upon the construction, location and operation of a
special use as may be deemed necessary to promote the general objectives of
this code and to minimize impacts on the value of property in the surrounding
area. The Village Board shall either approve the petition and pass an ordinance
adopting the special use or deny the petition.
   (G)   Special use permit lapse.
      (1)   A special use permit shall lapse if:
         (a)   A building permit has not been issued by the village for such
construction, installation or relocation within two years after the effective
date of the ordinance granting a special use unless extended by the mutual
agreement of the applicant and Village Board; and
         (b)   A building permit has been issued, but such construction,
installation or relocation is not completed within two years after its
issuance.
      (2)   In the event a special use lapses, nothing herein shall prohibit
any person from applying for the same special use or a new special use on
substantially the same terms.
   (H)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Village Board may enforce any of the conditions upon which a
special use has been granted by instituting an appropriate action in the county
circuit court to enjoin the violation of such condition and, in addition, may
institute an action in said court to impose appropriate fines for such
violations.
      (2)   The Village Board may terminate any special use for violation of a
condition upon which the special use has been granted in the following manner.
         (a)   Written notice of the alleged violation shall be served either
personally or by registered or certified mail, upon the owner and upon the
occupant, if any, of the premises covered by such special use, allowing 30 days
following personal service or mailing of said notice for the violation to be
cured, and setting a date certain sometime after said 30-day period for a
public hearing thereon before the Village Board.
         (b)   If the alleged violation is eliminated within the 30-day period
and the Planning Director so certifies, the public hearing shall be cancelled.
         (c)   If the Planning Director does not certify, the public hearing
shall be held, and the owner and occupant, if any, shall be given an
opportunity to show cause, if any thereby, why the special use should not be
terminated.
         (d)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Village Board can:
            1.   Permit the special use to continue, allowing such additional
time to eliminate the alleged violation as they deem warranted under the
circumstances;
            2.   Permit the special use to continue and, with the consent of
the owner, adopt an ordinance modifying the special use in such manner as they
deem appropriate after due notice and public hearing as required by this
section; or
            3.   Adopt an ordinance repealing the special use, provided that
any such ordinance shall contain findings of fact upon which such repeal is
based.
      (3)   All remedies and actions provided in this section shall be in
addition to and not in place of those elsewhere provided in this code or
available under the laws or statutes of the state.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1313.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 16-D.8 PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES AND SERVICES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   It is the general purpose and intent of the village to carry out
the will of the United States Congress by authorizing communication facilities
needed to operate personal wireless telecommunications systems. It is the
further purpose and intent of the village to provide for such authorization in
a manner which will retain the integrity of residential neighborhoods and the
character, property values and aesthetic quality of the community at large. In
particular, these standards attempt to address issues of demand, visual
mitigation, engineering, residual impacts and facility design, so as to
minimize, to the extent possible, the amount of aesthetic degradation, property
devaluation, and safety implications related to the siting of such facilities.
In fashioning and administering the provisions of this section, an attempt has
been made to balance these potentially competing interests.
      (2)   Recognizing the number of providers authorized to establish and
operate personal wireless telecommunications services and facilities, it is the
further purpose and intent of this section to:
         (a)   Promote public health, safety and welfare;
         (b)   Facilitate adequate and efficient provision of sites for
personal wireless telecommunications facilities;
         (c)   Ensure that wireless telecommunications facilities are situated
in appropriate locations and relationships to other land uses, structures and
buildings;
         (d)   Limit inappropriate physical and aesthetic overcrowding of land
use activities and avoid adverse impact upon existing infrastructure systems
and other public services and facility needs;
         (e)   Allow the Village Board to regulate and restrict personal
wireless telecommunications facilities and services as special land uses;
         (f)   Allow the Board to permit wireless telecommunications facilities
as special land uses at permitted site locations, subject to applicable
standards and conditions, which will lessen adverse impact upon neighborhoods
and the village;
         (g)   Provide for adequate information about plans for personal
wireless telecommunications facilities in order to permit the village to
effectively plan for the location of such facilities;
         (h)   Minimize the adverse impacts of technological obsolescence of
such facilities, including a requirement to remove unused and/or unnecessary
facilities in a timely manner;
         (i)   Minimize the negative visual impact of personal wireless
telecommunications facilities on neighborhoods, community landmarks, historic
sites and buildings, public open space and public rights-of-way. This
contemplates the establishment of as few structures as reasonably feasible, and
the use of structures which are designed for compatibility, including the use
of existing structures and the avoidance of lattice structures that are
unnecessary, taking into consideration the purposes and intent of this section;
and
         (j)   The Village Board finds that the presence of numerous tower
structures, particularly if located within residential areas, would decrease
the attractiveness and destroy the character and integrity of the community.
This, in turn, would have an adverse impact upon property values. Therefore, it
is necessary to minimize the adverse impact from the presence of numerous
relatively tall tower structures having low architectural and other aesthetic
appeal to most persons, recognizing that the absence of regulation would result
in a material impediment to the maintenance and promotion of property values,
and further recognizing that this economic component is an important part of
the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ATTACHED WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES (ANTENNA). Personal
wireless telecommunications facilities antenna that are affixed to existing
support structures, including, but not limited to existing buildings, steeples,
monopoles, towers, water tanks and utility poles. Personal wireless
telecommunications support structures proposed to be newly established shall
not be included within this definition.
      COLLOCATION. The location by two or more personal wireless
telecommunications antenna on a common structure, tower, building or other
support structure. COLLOCATION has the effect of reducing the overall number of
structures required to support personal wireless telecommunications antennas
within the community.
      CONCEALED FACILITY. A personal wireless telecommunications support
structure which is designed to resemble a natural object or architectural
feature that is not a wireless telecommunications facility such as a clock
tower, bell steeple, light pole or similar alternative design.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES AND PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES.
         (a)   All structures and accessory facilities relating to the cellular
mobile telephone services, licensed or unlicensed personal wireless services as
defined in the Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C), as
amended. Such facilities include attached wireless telecommunications
facilities, concealed facilities and wireless telecommunications support
structures as defined herein.
         (b)   Not included within this definition are: citizen band radio
facilities; television or radio towers; short wave facilities; ham, amateur
radio facilities; satellite dishes; essential services; and governmental
facilities which are subject to state or federal law or regulations which
preempt municipal regulatory authority.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT STRUCTURES (TOWERS). Structures
erected or modified to support personal wireless telecommunications antennas.
Support structures within this definition shall include, but shall not be
limited to, buildings, monopoles, utility poles, light poles, wood poles and
guyed towers, or other structures which appear to be something other than a
support structure, such as a clock tower or steeple.
   (C)   Permitted locations.
      (1)   All personal wireless telecommunications facilities shall be
special uses. In all circumstances, a new personal wireless telecommunications
facility shall be deemed a special use, subject to the general special use
standards and procedures set forth in Article 16-D.
      (2)   Sites.
         (a)   To minimize the adverse visual impact of personal wireless
telecommunications facilities, such facilities will be permitted as special
uses only in the following zoning districts: Corporate Campus District,
Community Retail District and Business Park District.
         (b)   No such facilities shall be permitted as special uses in the
following zoning districts: Village Greenway District, Residential Districts,
Special Retail District or on any property designated as a historic landmark or
part of a historic district by the village.
   (D)   Standards and conditions applicable to all facilities. All
applications to erect, construct or modify wireless telecommunications
facilities shall be reviewed in accordance with the following standards and
conditions and, if approved, shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with such standards and conditions. In addition, if the facility is approved,
it shall be constructed and maintained with any additional conditions imposed
by the Village Board in its discretion.
      (1)   Public health and safety. Facilities shall not be demonstrably
injurious to neighborhoods or otherwise detrimental to the public safety and
welfare.
      (2)   Compliance with federal, state, and local standards. Wireless
telecommunications facilities shall comply with applicable federal and state
standards relative to the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions.
      (3)   Maximum height for a new wireless telecommunications support
structure.
         (a)   The maximum permitted height of any new wireless
telecommunications support structure and associated antenna shall be 110 feet.
The Village Board shall have the discretion to permit antenna or support
structures that exceed 110 feet in height, at the time collocation of
additional antenna is requested.
         (b)   The height of the support structure shall be measured from the
finished grade at the base of the support structure to the highest point of the
highest proposed antenna or structure.
      (4)   Minimum setbacks. Required setbacks of new support structures from
adjacent properties shall, at a minimum, be the setbacks required for principal
buildings within the applicable zoning district. However, the Village Board
shall have the discretion to require greater setbacks from residential use, if
feasible.
      (5)   Access. There shall be unobstructed access to the support structure
for operation, maintenance, repair and inspection purposes, which may be
provided through or over an easement. This access shall have a width and
location determined by such factors as:
         (a)   The location of adjacent thoroughfares and traffic and
circulation within the site;
         (b)   Utilities needed to service the tower and any attendant
facilities;
         (c)   The location of buildings and parking facilities, proximity to
residential districts and minimizing disturbance to the natural landscape; and
         (d)   The type of equipment which will need to access the site.
      (6)   Subdivision of property. The subdivision of property for the
purpose of locating a wireless telecommunications facility is prohibited unless
all zoning requirements and conditions are met.
      (7)   Equipment enclosure. Where an attached wireless telecommunications
facility is proposed on the roof of a building or if the equipment enclosure is
proposed as a roof appliance or penthouse on the building, it shall be
designed, constructed and maintained to be architecturally compatible with the
principal building. The equipment enclosure may be located within the principal
building or may be an accessory building. If proposed as an accessory building,
it shall conform with all district requirements (including setback
requirements) for accessory buildings.
      (8)   Maximum permitted height of the equipment enclosure. The accessory
building constructed to enclose such things as switching equipment shall be
limited to the maximum height for accessory structures (i.e., 20 feet in
height).
      (9)   Design objectives. The support structure and all accessory
buildings shall be designed to minimize distraction, reduce its visibility,
maximize aesthetic appearance and ensure compatibility with surroundings. The
Village Board shall have the discretion to require the use of a certain color,
building material or other design element to ensure compatibility. It shall be
the responsibility of the applicant to maintain the wireless telecommunications
facility.
      (10)   Signs. No signs or logos visible from off-site shall be permitted
on support structures or antenna, with the exception of approved warning signs.
      (11)   Landscaping/fencing. The Village Board shall have the discretion
to require landscaping to provide screening and aesthetic enhancement for the
structure base and accessory buildings. The Village Board shall also have the
discretion to permit or require fencing for protection of the support structure
and security from children and other persons who may otherwise access
facilities.
      (12)   Compliance with building codes. The support system shall be
constructed in accordance with all applicable building codes.
      (13)   Lighting. No personal wireless telecommunications facilities shall
be lighted unless required by the FAA or other federal or state agency with
authority to regulate. In the event such lighting is required, a description of
the lighting scheme shall be provided.
      (14)   Color. All personal telecommunications facilities shall be of a
color that is harmonious with or blends in with its surroundings. In the case
of proposed support structures designed as monopoles, white or pale gray is
likely to be deemed to be most compatible.
   (E)   Application requirements. All applications to erect, construct, modify
any part or component of a wireless telecommunications facility shall include
the following:
      (1)   A site plan, showing the location, size, screening and design of
all buildings and structures, including fences, and the location and size of
outdoor equipment, and the location, number and species of proposed
landscaping, and as-built drawings for all proposed attached wireless
telecommunications facilities and/or wireless telecommunications support
structures;
      (2)   A maintenance plan, and any applicable maintenance agreement, shall
be presented and approved as part of the site plan for the proposed facility.
Such plan shall be designed to ensure the long term, continuous maintenance to
a reasonable prudent person standard;
      (3)   A disclosure of what is proposed, demonstrating the need for the
proposed telecommunications support structure to be located as proposed based
upon the presence of one or more of the following factors:
         (a)   Proximity to a major thoroughfare;
         (b)   Areas of population concentration;
         (c)   Concentration of commercial or other business centers;
         (d)   Areas where signal interference has occurred due to buildings,
masses of trees or other obstruction; and
         (e)   Topography of the proposed facility location in relation to
other facilities with which the proposed facility is to operate.
      (4)   The reason or purpose for the placement, construction or
modification with specific reference to the provider’s coverage, capacity and/
or quality needs, goals and objectives;
      (5)   The service area of the proposed wireless telecommunications
facility. A propagation map shall be provided to illustrate this information;
      (6)   The nature and extent of the provider’s/applicant’s ownership,
easement or lease interest in the property, buildings or structure upon which
facilities are proposed for placement, construction or modification;
      (7)   The identity or address of all owners and other persons with real
property interests in the property, buildings or structure upon which
facilities are proposed for placement, construction or modification;
      (8)   A map showing existing and known proposed wireless
telecommunications facilities within the village, and further showing existing
and known proposed wireless telecommunications facilities within areas
surrounding the borders of the village that are relevant in terms of potential
collocation or in demonstrating the need for the proposed facility. The map
shall also show existing buildings and/or other structures of the same
approximate height within a one-half mile radius of the proposed site which
could accommodate a feasible collocation of the applicant’s proposed attached
wireless telecommunications facility;
      (9)   For each location identified on the applicant/provider’s survey
maps and drawings, the application shall include the following information, if
known, with the applicant/provider expected to exercise reasonable due
diligence in attempting to obtain information prior to application:
         (a)   The structural capacity and whether it can accommodate the
applicant’s facility, as proposed or modified;
         (b)   Whether property owner approvals exist or have been requested or
obtained; and
         (c)   Whether the location could be used by the applicant/provider for
placement of its attached wireless telecommunications facility, or if not, a
disclosure of the technical considerations involved, with specific reference to
how use of the location would prohibit the applicant/provider from providing
wireless telecommunications services.
      (10)   A certification by a state-licensed and registered professional
engineer regarding the manner in which the proposed structure will not fail.
The certification may be utilized, along with other criteria such as applicable
regulations for the district in question, in determining if additional setback
should be required for the structure and other facilities;
      (11)   A description of the security to be posted at the time of
receiving a building permit for the wireless telecommunications support
structure to ensure the faithful performance of all special use conditions,
including, but not limited to, removal of the structure when it has been
abandoned or is no longer needed, as provided in division (G) below. The
security, in the form of cash or performance bond or irrevocable letter of
credit in an amount determined sufficient by the village, shall be a promise of
the applicant and owner of the property to remove the facility in a timely
manner as required under this section, with the further provision that the
applicant and owner shall be responsible for the payment of any additional
costs and attorneys’ fees incurred by the village in securing removal;
      (12)   The Village Board shall have the discretion to require a detailed
landscape plan that indicates the size, species, number and location of
proposed plant material. The purpose of landscaping, where required, is to
provide screening for the wireless telecommunications support structure base,
accessory buildings, and enclosure;
      (13)   The Village Board shall have the discretion to require the
applicant to provide a visual simulation or rendering of the proposed support
structure that illustrates the relationship between the height and the visual
appearance of the structure. If required, the visual simulation shall be
provided from two different perspectives and accurately depict the scale of the
proposed structure in the context of the surrounding area;
      (14)   The proposal shall be reviewed for conformity with the collocation
requirements of division (F) below;
      (15)   A non-refundable application fee of $700 shall be submitted with
the application; and
      (16)   The applicant shall be required to pay the actual costs incurred
by the village for legal and engineering review fees for the application. The
village counsel and engineer shall provide an estimate for their review
services. The applicant shall submit payment in the amount of the total
estimate before the application shall be processed. If the actual costs exceed
the estimate, the applicant shall pay the difference prior to the issuance of a
building permit. If the applicant’s initial payment is more than the actual
cost of the review fees associated with the application, the village shall
refund the difference to the applicant.
   (F)   Collocation. It is the policy of the village to minimize the overall
number of newly established locations for wireless telecommunications
facilities and wireless telecommunications support structures within the
community, and encourage the use of existing structures for attached wireless
telecommunications facility purposes, consistent with the statement of purpose
and intent, set forth in division (A) above. Each licensed provider of a
wireless telecommunications facility must, by law, be permitted to locate
sufficient facilities in order to achieve the objectives promulgated by the
United States Congress. However, particularly in light of the dramatic increase
in the number of wireless telecommunications facilities reasonably anticipated
to occur as a result of the change of federal law and policy in and relating to
the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996, it is the policy of the village
that all users should collocate on attached wireless telecommunications
facilities and wireless telecommunications support structures in the interest
of achieving the purposes and intent of this section, as stated above, and as
stated in division (A) above. If a provider fails or refuses to permit
collocation on a facility owned or otherwise controlled by it, where
collocation is feasible, the result will be that a new and unnecessary
additional structure will be compelled, in direct violation of and in direct
contradiction to the basic policy, intent and purpose of the village. The
provisions of this section are designed to carry out and encourage conformity
with this policy.
      (1)   Feasibility of collocation. Collocation shall be deemed “feasible”
for purposes of this section where all of the following are met.
         (a)   The wireless telecommunications provider entity under
consideration for collocation will provide fair compensation for collocation.
         (b)   The site on which collocation is being considered, taking into
consideration reasonable modification or replacement of a facility, is able to
provide structural support.
         (c)   The collocation being considered is technologically feasible,
e.g., the collocation will not result in unreasonable interference, given
appropriate physical and other adjustment in relation to the structure,
antennas and the like.
         (d)   The height of the structure necessary for collocation shall not
exceed the maximum height identified under division (D) above, unless
authorized by the Village Board.
      (2)   Requirements for collocation.
         (a)   A special use permit for the construction and use of a new
wireless telecommunications support structure shall not be granted unless and
until the applicant demonstrates that a feasible collocation is not available
for the coverage area and capacity needs.
         (b)   All new and modified wireless telecommunications support
structures shall be designed and constructed so as to accommodate collocation.
Prior to issuance of a special use permit for a new support structure, the
applicant shall provide a notarized letter signed by applicant representing and
warranting that the personal wireless telecommunications support structure is
structurally designed to accommodate at least one additional antenna for one
future user, and that if approached by a second user, the applicant will permit
collocation if fairly compensated. A structural engineer’s certification shall
address the silhouette and structural integrity of the proposed support
structure for use and occupancy by at least two users. Noncompliance with this
provision may be grounds for revoking the special use permit.
   (G)   Removal of wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (1)   All providers with facilities within the village shall notify the
village, in a timely manner, when a facility is no longer in operation.
      (2)   All wireless telecommunications providers with facilities in the
village shall be required to submit an annual status report to the village that
describes the current operational and maintenance status of the facilities and
any planned changes or modifications to the structure, site or ownership, lease
or maintenance agreement. The village shall have the discretion to charge the
applicant a fee for review of the annual status report.
      (3)   A condition of every approval of a wireless telecommunications
facility shall be adequate provision for removal of all or part of the facility
by users and owners.
      (4)   Provisions for removal shall be made if the facility has not been
used for 180 days or more. For purposes of this section, the removal of
antennas or other equipment from the facility, or the cessation of operations
[missing text].
(Ord. 2006-0-5, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 16-E AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Authority. The Village Board may, from time to time, on the
recommendation of the Plan Commission in the manner hereinafter set forth,
amend the text of or the zoning map established by this code.
   (B)   Amendment application. An application for a text or zoning map
amendment shall be filed on forms provided by the village. (See § 17-E.) The
Village Board, the Plan Commission, the owner of a site or anyone having a
proprietary interest or a leasehold interest in a property can file for an
amendment. In any instance in which any party other than the record title
holder shall initiate such a proceeding, evidence of the consent of the record
title holder shall be required as a part of the proceeding. The application for
amendment shall contain such documents and information deemed necessary by the
Plan Commission to make a recommendation. The information may include, but is
not limited to, a legal description of the property; proof of ownership,
proprietary interest or a current contract to lease the property; and if a land
trust is involved, disclosure of all beneficial interests.
   (C)   Public hearing.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall, within 60 days of receiving a complete
application for amendment, hold a public hearing.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide notification of the hearing by
certified mail or personal service to each owner of property within 250 feet in
each direction of the subject property. The number of feet occupied by public
roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in computing
this 250-foot requirement. The list of property owners shall be provided to the
village by the applicant by affidavit, and said list shall contain the names of
the last persons paying tax bills on said parcels for the most recent tax year
in which payment has been made. Such notice shall be given not more than 30
days nor less than 15 days before the hearing.
      (3)   The public notices provided by the applicant shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
         (a)   Date, place, time and purpose of hearing;
         (b)   Property location information, that may include the following
information:
            1.   The mailing address of the subject property;
            2.   The PIN (Property Index Number) from the county real estate
tax records;
            3.   The approximate distance and direction from one or more street
intersections;
            4.   A location map for the subject property and the adjacent area
around the subject property, including both a stated map scale and a graphic
bar scale on the map;
            5.   A common description; and
            6.   If deemed necessary by the Village Planning Director, to aid
in the understanding of the location of the subject property, a legal
description and plat of survey.
         (c)   The plat of survey and legal description may be required at
other stages of the village approval process, such as for building or other
site improvements permits.
      (4)   The Plan Commission shall publish notice not more than 30 days nor
less than 15 days before the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village.
   (D)   Findings. Where the purpose and effect of the proposed amendment is to
amend the zoning map as to a particular property, the Plan Commission shall
make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case
with respect to the following:
      (1)   The existing uses of property within the general site area;
      (2)   The zoning classification of property within the general site area;
      (3)   The site suitability for the uses permitted under the existing
zoning classification and the proposed classification; and
      (4)   Development trends, if any, in the general site area, including
changes, if any, which may have taken place since the property was placed in
its original zoning classification.
   (E)   Recommendation.
      (1)   Within 60 days after the close of the hearing on a proposed
amendment, the Plan Commission shall forward written findings of fact and
recommendation regarding the application to the Village Board.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall not recommend the adoption of a proposed
amendment unless it finds that the adoption of such an amendment is in the
public interest and is not solely for the interest of the applicant.
   (F)   Decisions. The concurring vote of the majority of the members of the
Plan Commission present at the hearing shall be necessary to grant approval of
an amendment. All amendments approved by the Plan Commission shall be forwarded
to the Village Board. The Village Board shall either approve the application
and pass an ordinance adopting the text or zoning map amendment or deny the
petition.
   (G)   Amendment denial. No application for an amendment which has been
denied wholly or in part by the Village Board shall be resubmitted for a period
of one year from the date of the decision, except on the grounds of new
evidence or proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the Plan
Commission and Village Board.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2011-0-3, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 16-F PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   A planned development, if granted, shall be a special use in accordance with
the following procedures and may depart from the normal procedure, standards
and other requirements of other sections of this section. Applications shall be
made on forms provided by the village and shall be accompanied by the required
plans and documents. The application at each step shall be certified by the
Village Planner and the Village Engineer as containing all information and data
required under these procedures. These plans and documents shall be reviewed by
the Village Planner and Village Engineer, in accordance with the plan review
procedures adopted by the Village Board.
   (A)   Concept review. Prior to the filing of an application for approval of
a preliminary plan for a planned development, the developer shall submit a
concept plan for review to the Village Planner and the Village Engineer
according to the procedures for plan review, applicable to planned
developments. The concept review process is subject to § 18-C of this code,
requiring payment of all related fees.
   (B)   Approval of preliminary plan. A preliminary plan of the planned
development shall be submitted to the President and Board of Trustees, who
shall refer same to the Plan Commission for public hearing, report and
recommendation as to whether or not the President and Board of Trustees should
issue the special use permit applied for. The required procedure for approval
of the preliminary plan shall be that specified in the procedures for plan
review adopted by the Village Board, except as follows.
      (1)   At the direction of the Village Board, the Plan Commission shall
hold a public hearing on application for a planned development, giving notice
of the time and place not more than 30 or less than 15 days before the hearing,
by publishing a notice thereof at least once, in a published newspaper having
general circulation within the village.
      (2)   (a)   The Plan Commission shall review the preliminary planned
development plan and supporting data for conformity to these regulations and
hold a public hearing. Within 60 days after the public hearing is concluded,
the Plan Commission shall recommend approval, modification or disapproval, and
provide the reasons therefor, or indicate in writing why a report cannot be
rendered to the President and Board of Trustees.
         (b)   As a condition to the approval of the preliminary plan, the Plan
Commission shall set forth in a separate communication to the President and
Board of Trustees, findings of fact, in accord with the Development Code, on
which they base their approval, and describing how the proposal meets the
standards of the Development Code, or specifying what compensating public
benefits will be achieved by variation of any standard.
      (3)   The President and Board of Trustees shall approve, modify or
disapprove the preliminary plan within 60 days after receipt of the report and
recommendation from the Plan Commission.
      (4)   (a)   Approval of a preliminary planned development plan shall not
constitute approval of the final plat; rather, it shall be deemed an expression
of approval to the layout submitted on the preliminary plan, as a guide to the
preparation of the final plat which will be submitted for approval of the
village and subsequent recording upon the fulfillment of the requirements of
these regulations and conditions of the preliminary approval, if any. The final
plat shall be approved as the final land use and zoning plat if it
substantially conforms with the approved preliminary land use and zoning plan.
         (b)   The preliminary plan and final plat may be filed and approved
simultaneously or the final plat may be filed and approved without a
preliminary plan, if all of the land is to be developed at one time, if all
requirements hereof are met.
         (c)   No building permit shall be issued for any structure until the
approval of the final plat.
   (C)   Approval of the final plat. The final planned development plat shall
conform substantially to the preliminary plan as approved, and, if desired by
the developer, it may be submitted in stages, with each stage reflecting the
approved preliminary plat which is proposed to be recorded and developed;
provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements of these
regulations. The required procedure for approval of a final plat shall be that
specified in the procedures for plan review adopted by the Village Board,
except as follows.
      (1)   The final plat must be submitted for approval in accordance with
agreed-to scheduling, together with all supporting data required in § 17-F(C).
The Village Board, at its discretion and for good cause, may extend the period
for filing of the final plat in whole or for any phase. If the applicant fails
to submit a final plat, together with the required supporting data, within the
scheduled time period, or any extension thereof, the Village Board may initiate
revocation of the approval of the preliminary plan. Prior to such revocation,
the village shall provide written notice to the applicant and the Village Board
shall conduct a public hearing at which the applicant shall be afforded an
opportunity to be heard.
      (2)   Final plats and supporting data shall show in detail the design,
location and use of all buildings and overall land development, as well as such
information as required herein.
      (3)   In the case of approval of a final plat, the Village Board shall
pass an ordinance granting a special use permit authorizing the planned
development and the issuance of all necessary construction permits; provided,
however, that such construction permits shall be issued only after the final
planned development plat and supporting data have been recorded with the
recorder of deeds; and provided further however, that all applications for such
construction permits are in full compliance with the requirements of the
applicable ordinances of the village.
   (D)   Filing the final plat.
      (1)   The ordinance authorizing construction of the planned development
shall be effective only upon recording of the final planned development land
use and zoning plat and necessary supporting data with the County Recorder of
Deeds. No permit allowing construction of a building or other development shall
be granted until the required recording of the final plat.
      (2)   The purpose of the final plat is to designate with particularity
the land subdivided into conventional lots as well as the division of other
lands, not so subdivided, into common open areas and building sites. The
preliminary plat shall generally locate buildings, whereas the final plat shall
show the exact location of each building and other improvement.
      (3)   The recording of the final plat shall inform all who deal with the
planned development of the restrictions placed upon the land and act as a
zoning control device.
   (E)   Changes in the planned development. The planned development project
shall be developed only according to the approved final plat and all supporting
data. The final plat and supporting data, together with all approved
amendments, shall be binding on the applicants, their successors and assigns
and shall limit and control the use of premises and location of structures in
the planned unit development project, as set forth therein.
      (1)   Insubstantial changes. A final planned development plat submitted
for approval shall be deemed to conform substantially to the preliminary plat
approved, provided that the Village Board shall find that any modification
therein, including any modification in location, design and number of
buildings, roadways and utilities, does not: change the concept or intent of
the preliminary plat approved; increase the gross residential density or
intensity of use by more than 2%; decrease the area set aside for common open
space; change by more than 5% the floor area for nonresidential use; or change
by more than 5% the total ground area covered by buildings or structures;
provided, however, that no change which exceeds the intensity of use permitted
in the use district in which the planned development is located shall be
considered an insubstantial change.
      (2)   Substantial changes. In the event the final planned development
plat submitted does not conform substantially to the preliminary plat
previously approved, or in the event the applicant desires to amend
substantially a planned development plat previously approved in preliminary or
final form, the changes therein or amendments thereto may be approved only by
following the procedure of obtaining preliminary approval and subsequent
amendment of the final land use and zoning plat as provided in this section.
Such changes or amendments approved in the final planned development plat shall
be recorded, if directed by the village, as amendments to such final plat or by
the filing for record of a new “corrected” final plat.
      (3)   Covenants or agreements not waived. No changes in the final planned
development plat approved hereunder shall be considered to waive any of the
covenants or agreements limiting the use of land, buildings, structures and
improvement within the planned development.
   (F)   Revocation; extensions. The President and Board of Trustees shall
consider the planned development subject to revocation if construction falls
more than one year behind the schedule filed with the final plat. Extensions in
the building schedule may be granted by the President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2004-0-6, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 16-G NON-PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Corporate Campus District.
      (1)   All developments within the Corporate Campus that are greater than
ten acres but less than 40 acres are not required to follow the planned
development review and approval process if they meet the bulk requirements of
this code.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit the same documentation required for
planned developments as provided for in Article 17, using the village’s planned
development form. The application shall be submitted to the Planning Director.
      (3)   Development plans in compliance with this code shall be approved by
the Planning Director.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1315.jpg]
   (B)   Residential districts. All developments within the residential
districts that subdivide or resubdivide property that is less than five acres
are not required to follow the planned development review and approval process
if they meet the bulk requirements of this code. The applicant shall submit a
plat of subdivision or resubdivision, using the village’s special use form.
(See § 17-D.) The application shall be submitted to the Planning Director.
Plats of subdivision or resubdivision in compliance with this code shall be
approved by the Planning Director, Plan Commission and Village Board.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1317.jpg]
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 16-H OFFICES.
   The administration of this code is hereby vested in the following offices.
   (A)   Planning Director. The Planning Director shall enforce this code and,
in addition thereto, he or she shall:
      (1)   Receive and forward to the appropriate body for review and
recommendation all applications for special uses, variations or amendments to
this code;
      (2)   Receive from the Village Board amendments which have been proposed
by the Village Board and transmit copies of same to the Plan Commission or ZBA
for review and recommendation;
      (3)   Review applications for and issue all sign permits in the village;
      (4)   Review and approve all submittal requirements for Corporate Campus
developments between ten and 40 acres in size which are not planned
developments;
      (5)   Review all Village Greenway District boundary line adjustments;
      (6)   Provide such technical assistance as may be required by the Plan
Commission and ZBA in the exercise of their duties;
      (7)   Maintain permanent and current records of this code, including, but
not limited to, all maps, amendments and special uses, variations, appeals and
applications thereof;
      (8)   Receive from the Plan Commission and ZBA, recommendations on all
amendments, variations and special uses and transmit same to the Village Board;
      (9)   Review all development plans to determine compliance with the terms
of this code;
      (10)   Cause to be made inspections of buildings, structures and uses of
land, to determine compliance with the terms of this code;
      (11)   Issue all certificates of occupancy and make and maintain records
thereof; and
      (12)   Review plats of subdivision/resubdivision and make recommendations
to the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the
following duties and is hereby vested with the following jurisdiction and
authority:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirements, decisions
or determinations made by the Planning Director under this code;
      (2)   To hear and make recommendations to the Village Board upon
applications for variations under the terms provided in this code, in the
manner and subject to the standards set forth in this article; and
      (3)   To hear and decide, or make recommendations on such other matters
as may from time to time be committed to its jurisdiction by other ordinances
of the village.
   (C)   Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall have the following duties
and is vested with the following jurisdiction and authority:
      (1)   Hold public hearings on all applications for zoning map and text
amendments to this code, except when another hearing body has been designated
by the President and Board of Trustees, and to submit a report to the Village
Board setting forth its findings and recommendations;
      (2)   Hold public hearings on all applications for special uses, planned
developments, plats of subdivision or resubdivision referred to it; and to
submit a report to the Village Board setting forth its findings and
recommendations;
      (3)   Review all transfers of development rights to ensure compliance
with the provisions of Article 3;
      (4)   Review all development plans to determine compliance with the terms
of this code;
      (5)   Initiate, direct and review, from time to time, studies of the
provisions of this code and report its findings and recommendations to the
Village Board;
      (6)   Review the village’s Comprehensive Plan and related plans and
report its findings and recommendations of needed updates to the Village Board,
with Comprehensive Plan review intervals of not more than five years;
      (7)   Initiate, direct and review any special studies relating to the
village’s development and growth as requested by the Village Board; and
      (8)   To hear and decide all matters upon which it is required to pass
under this article.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 16-I REPEATED APPLICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for an amendment, special use or variation has been
filed by or on behalf of the owner or owners of property affected, no
subsequent application requesting substantially the same relief shall be filed
as to the same property within a period of six months of denial of the first
such application.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 16-J FEES.
   Any application for a variation, amendment, special use which is filed by or
on behalf of the owner or owners of a property, shall be accompanied by a fee
as provided in the fee schedule prescribed by the Village Board in Article 18.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 16-K ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this code, shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than
$200 for such offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 17. PROJECT SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 17-A INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   Generally. This article establishes all submittal requirements for
project review and approval by the Planning Director and Plan Commission,
including, but not limited to drawings, reports and massing models.
   (B)   Standard drawing format. To facilitate filing and review of project
drawings, a standard drawing format is required for all submittals. All
required drawings shall be 30 inches by 42 inches in size with a title block
indicating the name of the project, owner/applicant and appropriate
consultants. Drawings shall also indicate sheet number, drawing title, scale,
north arrow (where appropriate), notes, including site acreage, and the seal/
signature of appropriate registered professionals responsible for preparing the
drawings.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 17-B SIGNS.
   (A)   Sign permit application.
 
   VILLAGE OF OLD MILL CREEK
   SIGN PERMIT APPLICATION
 
   Date Filed                 
To: The Planning Director
                                      
                                      
 
1. The undersigned owner(s) of property in the Village of Old Mill Creek propose to locate a sign on property legally described as:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        commonly known as                 , Old Mill Creek, Lake County, Illinois
 
Real Estate Index Number(s)                 
 
2. (a) Location of sign on property                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
 
(b) Location of any other signs on the property                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 
(c) Purpose of sign                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
 
(d) Dimensions of sign                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
 
(e) Materials of which sign will be constructed                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
 
(f) Proposed date sign to be erected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 
(g) If a temporary sign, date sign to be removed                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
 
3. Accompanying this application are the following:
 
(a) Detailed site plan;
 
(b) Detailed sign elevations;
 
(c) Location photographs.
 
Filing fee:
 
Permanent sign: $30 plus $1 for each square foot of sign area
Temporary sign: $15
 
   Applicant’s signature                 
 
   Owner’s signature                 
   ******************************************************************************
 
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPE:
 
Name of applicant(s)                 phone                 
 
Mailing address                    
 
Name of agent or attorney                    phone                 
 
Mailing address                   
 
Name of owner                 phone                 (if other than applicant)
 
Mailing address                       
 
   (B)   Drawings.
      (1)   Detailed site plan. A drawing of the site and its immediate
surrounding area shall be prepared at a scale of not less than one-eighth of an
inch equals one foot and shall designate buildings, streets, light fixtures and
other relevant site features in the general vicinity of the proposed sign.
Property boundaries, easements and zoning district must also be indicated.
      (2)   Detailed sign elevations. Elevation of the sign face(s) shall be
prepared at a scale of not less than one-half inch equals one foot and shall
designate sign design, dimensions, materials, colors, lighting and written/
graphic message.
   (C)   Photographs. Photographs of the proposed sign location taken from all
principal views shall be submitted.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 17-C VARIATIONS.
   Variation application.
 
   VILLAGE OF OLD MILL CREEK, ILLINOIS
   ZONING VARIATION APPLICATION
 
   Date filed                 
 
To: The President and Board of Trustees
The Zoning Board of Appeals
c/o The Planning Director
                        
                        
 
1. The undersigned owner(s) of property in the Village of Old Mill Creek propose(s) a variation for property legally described as:                    commonly known as                     , Old Mill Creek, Lake County, Illinois
 
Real Estate Index Number(s)                 
 
2. (a) Present zoning classification of property:                     
 
(b) Zoning classification proposed:                 
 
(c) The particular Development Code requirements which prevent or inhibit the proposed use:                                                                                                                                                                              
 
(d) The property’s characteristics which prevent compliance with the Development Code:                                                                                                                                                                                     
 
(e) The minimum requirements necessary to permit the proposed use:
 
(f) The practical difficulty or particular hardship which would result if the Development Code’s requirements were applied to the property and/or the proposed use:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 
3. Accompanying this application are the following:
 
(a) Proof of ownership;
 
(b) List of property owners within 250 feet of property;
 
(c) Site plan.
 
The filing fee is $55
 
                                       
   Applicant’s signature
 
                                        
   Owner’s signature
 
******************************************************************************
 
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPE:
 
Name of applicant(s)                                       phone                                      
 
Mailing address                                              
 
Name of agent or attorney                                       phone                                      
 
Mailing address                                      
 
Name of owner                                       phone                                      
(If other than applicant)
 
Mailing address                                      
 
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 17-D SPECIAL USES.
   Special use application.
 
   VILLAGE OF OLD MILL CREEK, ILLINOIS
   SPECIAL USE APPLICATION
 
   Date filed                             
 
To: The President and Board of Trustees
The Plan Commission
c/o The Planning Director
                             
                             
 
1. The undersigned owner(s) of property in the Village of Old Mill Creek propose(s) a Special Use of property legally described as:                             commonly known as                             , Old Mill Creek, Lake County,
Illinois.
 
Real Estate Index Number(s)                             
 
2. (a) Present zoning classification of proposed site of Special Use:                             
 
(b) Number of acres in proposed site of Special Use                             
 
(c) Description of proposed Special Use                             
 
3. Accompanying this Application are the following:
 
(a) Proof of ownership;
 
(b) List of property owners within 250 feet of property;
 
(c) Final site plan;
 
(d) Landscape plan;
 
(e) Infrastructure plan;
 
(f) Massing model; and
 
(g) Development report.
 
The filing fee is $200
                                
   Applicant’s signature
 
                                
   Owner’s signature
 
 
   ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
 
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPE:
 
Name of applicant(s)                             phone                             
 
Mailing address                             
 
Name of agent or attorney                             phone                             
 
Mailing address                             
 
Name of owner                             Phone                             
(If other than applicant)
 
Mailing address                             
 
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 17-E AMENDMENTS.
   Amendment application.
 
   VILLAGE OF OLD MILL CREEK, ILLINOIS
   ZONING AMENDMENT APPLICATION
   Date filed               
 
To: The President and Board of Trustees
The Plan Commission
c/o The Planning Director
                                    
                                    
 
1. The undersigned owner(s) of property in the Village of Old Mill Creek propose(s) the following amendment of the Zoning Ordinance:
 
               Change in Zoning Map
(Complete Items 2, 3 and 4)
               Change Zoning Ordinance Text, Amend Article          , Section          
(Complete Items 5, 6 and 7)
 
MAP
 
2. Legal description of property involved in proposal for change in Zoning Map: commonly known as               , Old Mill Creek, Lake County, Illinois
 
Real Estate Index Number(s)                             
 
3. (a) Present zoning classification of property involved in proposal for change in Zoning Map:                   
 
(b) Zoning classification proposed:               
4. The amendment of the zoning map is requested for the following reasons:                                                                                                                                                                              
 
TEXT
 
5. Summary description of proposed change in Article  .  , Section          
 
6. Article          , Section          as amended by this proposal would provide:
 
7. The proposed amendment of the Zoning Ordinance text amendment will read as follows: (Provide attachment if necessary.)
 
8. Accompanying this application are the following:
 
(a) Proof of ownership
 
(b) List of property owners within 250 feet of property
 
Filing Fee:
Zoning Ordinance text amendment: $200
Zoning map amendment: $250
 
                                 
   Applicant’s Signature
 
                                 
   Owner’s Signature
   ******************************************************************************
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPE:
 
Name of applicant(s)                   phone                  
 
Mailing address                                             
 
Name of agent or attorney                   phone                  
 
Mailing address                                          
 
Name of owner                   phone                  
(If other than applicant)
 
Mailing address __________________________
 
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 17-F PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   The planned development plans and supporting data shall include at least the
following information, in conformance with standards for preparation of plats
adopted by the village.
   (A)   Concept review stage.
      (1)   General site information. Data regarding site conditions, land
characteristics, available community facilities and utilities, existing
covenants and other related information.
      (2)   Sketch plan. A drawing in simple sketch form, showing the proposed
location and extent of the land uses; streets, lots and other features.
      (3)   Legal description. A property survey and legal description of the
site proposed for development.
   (B)   Preliminary plan stage. At least ten full-sized sets of plans and
documents and 20 reduced size (11 inches by 17 inches) sets of plans of the
following shall be furnished:
      (1)   Detailed plan. A drawing of the planned development shall be
prepared at a scale of not less than one inch equals 100 feet and shall show
such designations as proposed streets, all buildings and their use, common open
space, recreation facilities, parking areas, service areas and other facilities
to indicate the character of the proposed development. The submission may be
composed of one or more sheets and drawings and shall include:
         (a)   Boundary lines: bearing and distance;
         (b)   Easements: location, width, and purpose;
         (c)   Streets on and adjacent to the tract: street name, right-of-way
width, existing or proposed centerline elevations, pavement type, fire lanes,
walks, curbs, gutters, culverts and the like;
         (d)   Utilities on and adjacent to the tract: location, size and
invert elevation of sanitary, storm and combined sewers; location and size of
water mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone
lines, cable television lines and street lights; direction and distance to and
size of nearest water mains and sewers adjacent to the tract, showing invert
elevation of sewers;
         (e)   Ground elevations on the tract: for land that slopes less than
0.5%, show one-foot contours; show spot elevations at all breaks in grades,
along all drainage channels or swales and at selected points not more than 100
feet apart in all directions; for land that slopes more than 0.5%, show two-
foot contours;
         (f)   Subsurface conditions on the tract, if required by the Plan
Commission: location and results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soils,
rock and groundwater conditions; depth to groundwater, unless test pits are dry
at a depth of five feet; location and results of soil percolation tests, if
individual sewage disposal systems are proposed;
         (g)   Other conditions on the tract: watercourses, floodplains,
marshes, rock outcrops, wooded areas, isolated trees one foot or more in
diameter, houses, barns, accessory buildings and other, significant features;
         (h)   Other conditions on adjacent land: approximate direction and
gradient of ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls;
character and location of buildings, railroads, power lines, towers and other
nearby nonresidential land uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent
unplatted land; for adjacent platted land refer to subdivision plat by name,
recording date, and number, and show approximate percent built up, typical lot
size and dwelling type;
         (i)   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract;
         (j)   Proposed public improvements: highways or other major
improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near
the tract;
         (k)   Open space: all parcels of land intended to be dedicated for
public use or reserved for the use of all property owners, with the purpose
indicated;
         (l)   Building data: general location, purpose, and heights, in feet
and stories, of each building other than single-family residences on lots which
conform to all requirements of Chapters 155 and 156;
         (m)   Map data: name of development, north point and scale, date of
preparation, acreage of site; and
         (n)   Miscellaneous: such additional information as may be required by
the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Character. Explanation of the character of the planned development
and the manner in which it has been planned to take advantage of the
flexibility of these regulations;
      (3)   Ownership. Statement of present and proposed ownership of all land
within the project, including present tract designation according to official
records in offices of the County Recorder;
      (4)   Names. The names and addresses of the persons to whom the notices
of the hearing to be held by the planning agency should be sent (the
subdivider, the designer of the subdivision and the owners of the land
immediately adjoining the land to be platted);
      (5)   Schedule. Development schedule indicating:
         (a)   Stages in which the project will be built, with emphasis on
area, density, use and public facilities, such as open space to be developed
with each stage. Overall design of each stage shall be shown on the plan and
through supporting graphic material;
         (b)   Approximate dates for beginning and completion of each stage;
and
         (c)   If different land use types are to be included within the
planned development, the schedule must include the mix of uses to be built in
each stage.
      (6)   Covenants. Proposed agreements, provisions or covenants which will
govern the use, maintenance and continued protection of the planned development
and any of its common open space;
      (7)   Density. Provide information on the density of residential uses and
the number of dwelling units, by type;
      (8)   Nonresidential uses. Provide information on the type and amount of
ancillary and nonresidential uses in a residential development;
      (9)   Service facilities. Provide information on all service facilities
and off-street parking facilities;
      (10)   Architectural plans. Except for single-family residences located
on lots meeting all requirements of this code, preliminary architectural plans
for all primary buildings shall be submitted in sufficient detail to permit an
understanding of the style of the development, the design of the building, the
number, size and type of dwelling units and proposed building materials;
      (11)   Facilities plans. Preliminary plans for:
         (a)   Roads, including classification, width of right-of-way, width of
pavement, and typical construction details;
         (b)   Sanitary sewers;
         (c)   Storm drainage, detention and gradings;
         (d)   Water supply system; and
         (e)   Lighting program.
      (12)   Landscape plan. A generalized landscape plan indicating proposed
trees, shrubs and ground cover for both public and private areas. Said
generalized plan shall provide sufficient detail by way of typical planting
plans to facilitate an understanding of the overall planting scheme; and
      (13)   Tax base information.
         (a)   Provide information concerning the tax base that will result to
address the continuing service needs of the proposed planned development. The
information should include estimated market values and potential assessed
values for the subject property, together with projections of resulting tax
revenues for the various taxing bodies that are currently levying a tax rate;
         (b)   If any alternative service structures are being proposed for the
planned development, such as a special service area (SSA), a property owners
association or other structure to supplement the continuing service needs for
the proposed development, appropriate information should also be provided
regarding such structures; and
         (c)   Other relevant information regarding anticipated local tax
revenue resulting from the planned development should also be provided. This
could include, for example, retail sales taxes, per capita rebates that could
be added to general revenue funds (e.g., personal income tax rebates, local
share of state use taxes and the like). The village may request additional
information to permit an understanding of the potential tax base and other
resources that will be available to provide for future service needs required
for the proposed planned development.
   (C)   Final land use and zoning plat.
      (1)   Final land use and zoning plat. A final land use and zoning plat,
suitable for recording with the County Recorder of Deeds, shall be prepared.
The purpose of the land use and zoning plat is to designate with particularity
the land subdivided into conventional lots as well as the division of other
land not so treated, into common open areas and building areas. The final land
use and zoning plat shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   An accurate legal description of the entire area under immediate
development within the planned development;
         (b)   A subdivision plat of all subdivided lands, in the same form and
containing all the data and information required for a plat under this code;
         (c)   An accurate legal description of each separate unsubdivided use
area, including common open space;
         (d)   Designation of the exact location of all buildings or building
envelopes to be constructed, or lots for single-family dwellings;
         (e)   Certificates, seals and signatures required for the dedication
of lands and recording the document;
         (f)   Tabulations on separate unsubdivided use area, including land
area, number of buildings, number of dwelling units and dwelling units per
acre.
      (2)   Common open space documents. All common open space shall be either
conveyed to a public agency or a not-for-profit corporation or entity
established for the purpose of benefiting the owners and residents of the
planned development; or retained by the developer with legally binding
guarantees, in a form approved by the Village Attorney, that the common open
space will be permanently preserved as open area. All land conveyed to a not-
for-profit corporation or like entity shall be subject to the right of said
corporation to impose a legally enforceable lien for maintenance and
improvement of the common open space. Membership in said corporation shall be
mandatory for each landowner and successive buyer having a right of the use,
enjoyment or benefit of the open space or its facilities. All such covenants
and restrictions governing such common open space shall be recorded in the
office of the County Recorder of Deeds prior to the sale of any property within
the planned development.
      (3)   Final engineering plans. Final detailed engineering plans, drawn at
a scale of one inch equals 40 feet (unless otherwise approved by the Village
Engineer) for:
         (a)   Roads, including classification, width of right-of-way, width of
pavement and typical construction details;
         (b)   Sanitary sewers;
         (c)   Storm drainage;
         (d)   Water supply system;
         (e)   Lighting program;
         (f)   Erosion control;
         (g)   Grading; and
         (h)   Storm drainage and detention.
      (4)   Public facilities. Before any parcel within a planned development
may be sold or any structure may be erected on a parcel within a planed
development, a guarantee deposit shall be made to the village in cash, surety
bond, or letter of credit approved by the Village Attorney equal to 130% of the
Village Engineer’s estimated cost of public facility installations. This
deposit shall be a guarantee of satisfactory performance of the public
facilities constructed within the planned development. The performance
guarantee may be reduced commensurate with the completion of the work;
provided, however, that, the remaining balance shall equal or exceed 130% of
the cost to complete the balance of the improvements, as determined by the
Village Engineer, and further provided that in no event shall the performance
guarantee be reduced below 25% of the original amount, until all required
improvements are completed and accepted by the Village Board.
      (5)   Guarantee deposit.
         (a)   Upon dedication and acceptance, a maintenance guarantee, in an
approved form by the Village Attorney, shall be deposited with the village in
the amount of 10% of the original performance guarantee. Such guarantee shall
be in effect for two years from the date of acceptance of the required
improvements.
         (b)   No building permit shall issue for the construction of any
structure without evidence of the submittal ofperformance guarantee, or the
initiation ofpublic facilities installations, or the concurrent building of
such public facilities installations and compliance with §
155.12 of the village code.
         (c)   The guarantee deposit shall be deferred in the event that the
applicant for a residential final plat, certifies that there are no current
plans to develop the property. In such a case, impact fees shall be assessed at
the time of development, not at the time of approval of the residential final
plat is requested.
         (d)   School fees required by the village development plan will be
paid at the time of development, not at final plat approval. Fees are to be
based on Article 7-B of the Village of Old Mill Creek Development Code.
Development of any park sites will be determined at the time of the development
of the parcel in accordance with Article 7-A of the Development Code. Further,
as required by Article 18-C of the Village Development Code, “when the
dedication of land by a developer for park and school sites is not practical or
in accordance with village planning, the village shall require the developer to
pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land dedication as required by Article
7, Park/School Standards.” The formula for required land or cash donations
(also known as “the Naperville Formula”) is set forth in Article 7 of the
Development Code.
         (e)   After approval of the site plan and utility plan by the Village
Board, the developer shall submit construction drawings and specifications for
all public facilities to be built by the developer. Such drawings will be used
in determining the amount of the guarantee deposit.
         (f)   Further, a buyer of any parcel within a planned development of
the village shall be required to purchase from the village a real estate
transfer stamp for $100 transfer fee, and said stamp shall be affixed to the
face of the deed transferring title to the property before such deed is
recorded.
         (g)   PUBLIC FACILITIES INSTALLATIONS is defined as including roads
and streets, stormwater drainage, sanitary sewers, and water supply as shown on
approved engineering drawings. STRUCTURE is defined as any thing constructed or
erected which requires location on the ground or is attached to something
having location on the ground. The term STRUCTURE shall include buildings, but
shall not include fences.
      (6)   Delinquent taxes. A certificate shall be furnished from the proper
collector that he or she finds no delinquent taxes and that all special
assessments constituting a lien on the whole or any part of the property of the
planned development have been paid.
      (7)   Covenants. All final agreements, provisions or covenants which will
govern the use, maintenance and continued protection of the planned development
shall be subject to the review of the Village Attorney and shall be recorded as
agreements running with the land, in the office of the County Clerk.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2004-0-6, passed 9-13-2004; Ord. 2024-4, passed 6-
10-2024)
ARTICLE 18. APPLICATION/IMPACT FEES
§ 18-A FEE ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   This article establishes certain fees which are required for
applications, reviews, processing and approvals of all development projects by
the village. Additional fees for plan review, permits and other village
expenses may be required. The Planning Director shall maintain a complete list
of all such fees.
   (B)   All applicants for development shall be responsible for all village
staff and outside consultant professional fees incurred by the village in
connection with said request, including, but not limited to, planning
engineering and attorneys’ fees. A copy of the reimbursement of fees agreement,
for the fees of outside consultants, shall be maintained by the Village Clerk’s
office, and the reimbursement of fees agreement may be modified from time to
time by the Village Board. Please contact the Village Clerk’s office to obtain
the most recent copy of the reimbursement of fees agreement.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2011-0-5, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 18-B APPLICATION FEES.
   All application fees shall be paid to the Village Clerk who is responsible
for collecting village fees. The most recent copy of the schedule of
application fees shall be maintained by the Village Clerk’s office and the
schedule of application fees may be modified from time to time by the Village
Board. Please contact the Village Clerk’s office to obtain the most recent copy
of the schedule of application fees. Approval shall not be granted unless and
until the Village Clerk certifies that all of the applicable fees have been
paid in full.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2011-0-5, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 18-C VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES.
   The developer must pay the impact fees listed below for each development
project approved by the village. All said fees shall be paid to the Village
Clerk. Approvals shall not be granted unless and until the Village Clerk
certifies that all of the fees have been paid in full.
   (A)   Parks and schools. When the dedication of land by a developer for park
and school sites is not practical or in accordance with village planning, the
village shall require the developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the
land dedication required by Article 7. The cash contribution in lieu of park
land dedication shall be held in trust by the village, solely for the
acquisition of park and recreation land which will be available to serve the
immediate or future needs of the residents of the development or for the
improvement of other existing park and recreation land which already serves the
needs of the village. The cash contribution in lieu of school sites shall be
held in trust by the village solely for use in the acquisition of land for a
school site to serve the immediate or future needs of children from that
development or for the improvement to any existing school site which already
serves the needs of that development or the school districts. If any portion of
a cash contribution in lieu of park land dedication, or cash contribution in
lieu of school site dedication is not expended for the purposes set forth above
within ten years from the date of receipt, it shall be refunded to the
developer who made such contribution, with interest. Interest shall be repaid
to the developer at the same interest rate earned by the village while said
amount was on deposit with the village. Cash contribution in lieu of park land
dedication or school site dedication shall be deposited with the village before
the issuance to the developer of his or her building permit for such
development.
      (1)   Fair market value. Cash contributions in lieu of land dedications
shall be based on the “fair market value” of the acres of land that otherwise
would have been dedicated as park and school sites in accordance with § 7-B.
The present “fair market value” of improved land in and surrounding the
proposed development shall be determined by the Village Board and made
available to the public. This figure shall be used in making this calculation
unless the developer files a written objection within ten days. In the event
any such objection is filed, the developer shall submit an MAI appraisal
showing the “fair market value” of such improved land in the area of the
development. Final determination of “fair market value” per acre of such
improved land shall be made by the Village Board based upon such information
submitted by the developer and from other sources which may be submitted to the
Village Board.
      (2)   Population density. In calculating the cash contribution in lieu of
the required dedication of acres of land for park and school sites, the
estimated population to be generated from a residential planned development
shall be determined in accordance with § 7-B.
   (B)   Water and sewer.
      (1)   Each developer seeking to connect a development project to the
water system within the village in the Village Clerk’s office. Each developer
seeking to connect a development project to the sewer system within the village
is required to pay a sewer facilities impact fee. The amount of such impact
fees shall be available in the Village Clerk’s office.
      (2)   Water and sewer facilities impact fees shall be paid to the village
prior to connection to the water and/or sewer system of the village. All funds
collected will be properly identified and promptly transferred for deposit in
the appropriate water and sewer facilities impact fee trust funds. Any funds
not expended or encumbered by the end of the calendar quarter immediately
following ten years from the date the water and sewer facilities impact fee was
paid shall be returned to the developer.
      (3)   Funds collected from water and sewer facility impact fees shall be
used solely for the purpose of acquiring, equipping and/or making capital
improvements to water and sewer facilities benefiting the village. Funds from
the water facilities impact fee trust fund will only be used for water
facilities purposes and funds from the sewer facilities impact fee trust fund
will only be used for sewer facilities purposes.
   (C)   Stormwater management.
      (1)   Each developer is responsible for all fees and amounts required to
be paid under the County Watershed Development Ordinance.
      (2)   Developers shall furnish evidence of full payment of such fees to
the village.
   (D)   Engineering fees.
      (1)   All engineering review fees, including any reimbursable fees, shall
be based on the actual review cost plus a 10% administrative fee.
      (2)   At the time an application requiring an engineering review is made,
the village staff and consultants will determine an estimated cost for the
review work. Twenty-five percent of the estimated engineering review fee(s)
will be due and payable based on said estimate within seven days of the
determination of said estimate of costs.
      (3)   The actual engineering review fees shall be recalculated prior to
final plat/plan approval. The newly calculated fees, less any previous
payments, shall be paid before an applicant is given plat/plan approval and/or
building permits are issued.
      (4)   Additional engineering review fees may be incurred, depending upon
the necessary review work that is required by the Village Engineer or
consultants during the construction process. All engineering review fees must
be paid in full before a certificate of occupancy or other related approvals
are issued.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2013-0-3, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 18-D COUNTY DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   Traffic. The county requires all developments to pay a fee to the
county for the purpose of roadway improvements recommended in the County
Transportation Plan. The fee is assessed at the time of final plan approval and
due upon issuance of a building permit. Developers shall furnish evidence of
full payment of such fees to the village.
   (B)   [Missing text]
   (C)   Stormwater management. Each developer is responsible for all fees and
amounts required to be paid by the village pursuant to the attached permit
application fee schedule.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 2003-0-2, passed 1-13-2003; Ord. 2010-0-10, passed
11-8-2010; Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-10-2025)
ARTICLE 19. RULES AND DEFINITIONS
§ 19-A INTERPRETATION OF CODE.
   In the interpretation of this code, the rules and definitions contained in
this article shall be observed and applied except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 19-B RULES.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural and the plural the
singular.
   (C)   The words SHALL and WILL are mandatory and not discretionary.
   (D)   The word MAY is permissive.
   (E)   The word LOT shall mean a zoning lot, unless otherwise defined herein.
   (F)   The word STRUCTURE shall include the word BUILDING.
   (G)   The phrase USED FOR shall include the phrases INTENDED FOR, DESIGNED
FOR, OCCUPIED FOR, MAINTAINED FOR and ARRANGED FOR.
   (H)   The word PERSON shall include the words INDIVIDUAL, CORPORATION,
GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY, TRUST, ESTATE, PARTNERSHIP, ASSOCIATION, VENTURES, JOINT
VENTURES or any other legal entity.
   (I)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
   (J)   All measured distances, expressed in feet, shall be to the nearest
foot; if a fraction is one-half foot or less, the full number next below shall
be used. If a fraction is more than one-half foot, the next full number above
shall be used.
   (K)   All measurements shall include the metric equivalent.
   (L)   Unless otherwise specified, all distances shall be measured
horizontally.
   (M)   Terms and words, unless otherwise defined herein, shall be defined as
in Webster’s Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary, 1989.
   (N)   Terms, words, definitions, rules and setback standards, unless
otherwise provided herein, that relate to medical cannabis uses shall be as
stated in the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act (Public
Act 098-0122), as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2015-0-2, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 19-C DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Lying immediately to, sharing a common wall or lot line or
separated only by a street or alley.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE.
      (1)   An ACCESSORY BUILDING, ACCESSORY STRUCTURE or an ACCESSORY USE is
one which:
         (a)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or use;
         (b)   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served; and
         (c)   Is located on the same lot as the principal building or
principal use served, with the single exception of such off-street parking
areas as may be permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same lots the
principal building or principal use served.
      (2)   An ATTACHED ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE is one which is
permanently affixed to or abutting the principal building. All others shall be
termed DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   ADJACENT. To lie near, close to or in the vicinity of.
   ADJACENT ROAD OR STREET. Any public roadway whose right-of-way line is
contiguous with the property line of the subject site, including, but not
limited to, municipal, county and state roads.
   ADVERTISING STRUCTURE, OTHER. Any marquee, fixed canopy, fixed or
retractable awning, which includes as a part thereof, any sign as herein
defined.
   AGRICULTURAL USES. All aspects of the raising of crops and plant material,
excluding any uses associated with raising or maintaining livestock or farm
animals.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting properties. An ALLEY shall not be considered a street.
   ALTERATION. Any change in size, shape, occupancy or use of a building or
lot.
   AREA, GROSS. The total area of all property to be included in an application
for a planned development, excluding any property currently controlled as
public right-of-way.
   ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTIONS. Any obstruction, other than a natural obstruction,
that is capable of reducing the flood-carrying capacity of a stream, creek,
river, water course, including accumulation of debris. A natural obstruction
includes any rock, tree, gravel or natural matter that is an obstruction and
has been located within the floodway in a non-human, natural manner.
   AUTOMOBILE CONVENIENCE FOOD SHOP. Any premises used for sale at retail to
the public of gasoline stored in underground tanks which offers or includes as
any accessory use the retail sale of merchandise (including, but not limited
to, food and beverage) not necessarily related to the maintenance, service or
repair of motor vehicles, which premises does not offer to perform any manner
of automobile maintenance, service or repair. No outside storage or display of
merchandise shall be permitted on such premises except on a temporary or
promotional basis as permitted by the village in accordance with applicable
ordinances. The total area of the principal building (as measured in square
feet) shall not exceed 5% of the lot area of the zoning lot.
   AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY. A building or section thereof containing facilities for
washing more than two motor vehicles, using production line methods or
mechanical devices; or providing space, water and equipment for the hand
washing of motor vehicles, either by the customer or the operator.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any premises used for the sale at retail to the
public of gasoline stored in underground tanks, kerosene, lubricating oil,
grease, tires and minor accessories and not more than five service bays for
automobiles but not including major repairs and including washing without
production-line methods. The sale of certain impulse, prepackaged snack food
items designed to be eaten off the premises shall be permitted as accessory to
the principal use of the premises. Such snack food items include, but are not
limited to, candy, pop, whether dispensed into individual glasses or sold in
bottles and cans, coffee, sandwiches, chips and other items usually and
customarily sold in service stations such as cigarettes, papers and auto
accessories.
   AWNING SIGN. A sign painted on or attached to the cover of a moveable
metallic frame of the hinged, roll or folding type of awning.
   BANNER. A sign spanning between two supporting display brackets which are
mounted on a privately owned light standard (pole) in a parking lot or along a
street, road or driveway.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Also known as the 100-year flood.
   BASEMENT. A story, partly underground, having not more than one-half of its
clear height below the average grade of the adjacent ground.
   BERM. An earth mound formed primarily to shield or screen undesirable views
and/or decrease noise.
   BERM, BERMING. A hill or contour of land that acts as a visual barrier
between a lot and adjacent properties, alleys or streets.
   BILLBOARD. An off-premises sign owned by a person, corporation or other
entity that engages in the business of selling the advertising space on that
sign, which is larger than 35 gross square feet, or a wall sign larger than 10%
of the wall area to which it is affixed.
   BLOCKS. A tract of land bounded by streets, or a combination of streets and
public parks, golf courses, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way or shorelines of
waterways. A block may be located, in part, beyond the boundaries of the
village.
   BOAT. Any unit that is used for water travel or pleasure, including the
trailer for towing it.
   BUFFERING.
      (1)   Any means of protecting abutting properties from the visual or
auditory effects of a different or more intense use.
      (2)   BUFFERING may include, but is not limited to, berming, fencing,
landscaping, providing greater setbacks or providing open spaces.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the enclosure, shelter, support or
protection of persons, animals or property of any kind and which is permanent
affixed to the ground. The term BUILDING shall not include fences.
   BUILDING CAPACITY. Maximum number of persons allowed by the Building Code to
be in a building at the same time.
   BUILDING CODE. The Building Codes of the Village of Old Mill Creek.
   BUILDING COMMON ENTRANCE.
      (1)   Any office building which utilizes a limited number of entrances to
access the offices within the building.
      (2)   Such buildings provide internal access to the individual offices by
means of a lobby, atrium area, elevator or corridor.
   BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED. Any building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space, or from other buildings, by exterior walls or party walls
pierced only by windows and normal entrance or exit doors.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building completely surrounded by open space.
   BUILDING FOOTPRINT. The building footprint of a structure is the ground
surface covered by the building mass.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average final
finished grade of the ground at all four sides of the building to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof; or to the average height level between
eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1319.jpg]
   BUILDING MASSING. BUILDING MASSING represents the exterior envelope of all
building walls and roofs and the location of such envelope in relation to lot
lines, streets, parking, other buildings and natural features.
   BUILDING, NONCONFORMING. Any legally established building which does not
comply with all the regulations concerning yards, height, lot coverage and off-
street parking and loading of the district in which such building is located.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A non-accessory building in which the principal use is
conducted.
   BUILDING, SEPARATE ENTRANCE. Any office building which utilizes separate
entrances from the outside to access the individual business within the
building but in no event more than four such businesses.
   BULK. A composite term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings
and their location with respect to one another and including the following:
      (1)   Size and height of buildings;
      (2)   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets or other buildings;
      (3)   Floor area ratio;
      (4)   All open spaces allocated to buildings; and
      (5)   Amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit.
   CARPORT. An open-sided, roofed automobile shelter.
   CAR WASH. See AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY.
   CIRCULATION AREA. Driveways and maneuvering areas other than parking aisles
used for access to parking or loading areas or other facilities on the lot.
   CLINIC. See FACILITY.
   CODE. The Village of Old Mill Creek Development Code.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for-hire, not including, however, a recreational vehicle not being
used commercially.
   COMMUNITY PARKS. Large natural or landscaped areas which provide a passive
or active recreational area of approximately 25 to 50 acres to serve the needs
of several neighborhoods that may have very intensive recreational uses and/or
may support cultural activities. Such parks are intended to serve a full range
of suburban area recreation needs, for both daylight and evening use.
   COMPUTATION. When determination of the number of off-street parking spaces
required in this section results in the requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction shall require one additional space.
   CONVALESCENT HOME. See NURSING HOME.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Old Mill Creek.
   CURB LEVEL. The level of the established curb in front of a structure
measured at the center of such front. Where no such curb elevation has been
established, the elevation of the crown of the access roadway fronting the
center of the lot shall be considered the CURB LEVEL.
   DECIDUOUS PLANT. A woody perennial plant which drops its foliage at the end
of each growing season.
   DEDICATION. The designation of land to some public use, made by the owner
and accepted for such use by a municipality.
   DENSITY. The average number of persons, families or dwelling units per unit
of area.
   DEVELOPMENT. The entire project, whether on a single tract of land or
contiguous multiple tracts under common ownership, regardless of whether
DEVELOPMENT is constructed in phases.
   DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS. The right to develop land with a specified number of
dwelling units as permitted by the density established for the zoning district
in which the land is located.
   DRIP LINE. A perimeter formed by the points farthest away from the trunk of
a tree where precipitation falling from the branches of the tree lands on the
ground.
   DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE LANE. Any private roadway used for access to or
stacking space at carry-out windows for customers in vehicles, but not limited
to, gas stations, drive-thru restaurants and banks. (See also RESTAURANT,
DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY.)
   DRIVEWAY. A travel lane bounded by landscaping or sidewalks on either side.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for human
habitation containing three or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for human
habitation containing one dwelling unit and used by one family.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED. A dwelling which is joined to another
dwelling on one or more sides by a vertical party wall or walls, and originally
constructed for said purposes.
   DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit shall mean one room or a suite of two or more
rooms designed for or used by one family for living and sleeping purposes and
having only one kitchen or kitchenette.
   EASEMENT. A recorded agreement whereby a property owner grants the use of
air, land or mineral rights for a specific purpose.
   ELDERLY AND/OR DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED HOUSING. New construction of
multiple-family dwelling units or remodeling of existing multiple-family
dwelling units, the occupation of which shall be limited to persons 62 years of
age or more or developmentally disabled persons irrespective of age; provided,
that if two or more persons occupy a unit, at least one shall be either 62
years of age or more or developmentally disabled. Any special use permit
authorizing construction or conversion of elderly and/or developmentally
disabled housing units shall contain provisions setting forth the foregoing
requirements and restrictions.
   EMPLOYEES. Parking spaces required for employees shall be based on the
maximum number of employees on the premises at any one time whether on duty or
residing therein.
   EVERGREEN PLANT. A woody perennial plant which retains its foliage for more
than one growing season.
   EXTENDED STAY LODGING FACILITY. A building or buildings containing not less
than 75 nor more than 150 individual living units providing overnight lodging
facilities which are available to the general public for compensation, in which
each living unit includes a kitchen area and kitchen facilities in addition to
living, sleeping and bathroom areas and facilities. Each living unit may have
an individual, direct entrance from outside of the unit; provided, however,
that the development includes a central lobby/registration facility supervised
by a person in charge at all hours. In addition to those uses which are
provided primarily for the comfort and accommodation of guests of the facility
and which are customarily and historically accessory to the EXTENDED STAY
LODGING FACILITIES or to hotels, accessory uses may include the following:
      (1)   Recreational and social facilities, including a swimming pool and
exercise areas which are limited to hotel guests and their visitors and other
facilities approved by the Board of Trustees;
      (2)   Laundry and housekeeping facilities; and
      (3)   Vending machine areas.
   FACILITY. Offices of health professionals which contain facilities for
examination and treatment of patients but not for their lodging.
   FAMILY. One person, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
legal adoption (including foster children), or a group of not more than five
persons not all so related, together with domestic servants, maintaining a
common household in the same dwelling unit.
   FENCE. A barrier at grade, used as a boundary or means of protection or
confinement. The term shall include, but is not limited to, walls, railings and
similar items.
   FENCE SCREENING. A fence which conceals activities conducted behind it from
view from adjoining properties, alleys or streets.
   FENESTRATION. The arrangement, proportioning and design of windows and doors
in a building.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from the
base flood. Such land area is as designated subject to flooding from the 100-
year flood, on the “Flood Boundary and Floodway Map” prepared by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, a copy of which is on file with
the Planning Director. This area shall comprise the Floodplain Overlay Zone and
shall be designated as such on the official zoning map.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Such a channel is as
designated a floodway on the “Flood Boundary and Floodway Map” prepared by the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. This area shall comprise the
Floodway Overlay Zone and shall be designated as such on the official zoning
map.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the total areas of the stories of a building measured
from the exterior of walls or from the centerline of walls separating
buildings.
   FLOOR AREA; OUTDOOR DINING AREA. The sum of the total areas devoted to
outdoor dining operations, including, but not limited to, those areas used for
the preparation and service of food and/or drink for dining and waiting shall
be included in the determination of the gross floor area of a restaurant.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. Determined by dividing the gross floor area of all
buildings on a lot by the area of that lot.
   FOOD STORES. Stores which sell foods and other items commonly sold in
connection therewith. The term FOOD STORE shall include, but is not limited to,
stores commonly referred to as dairy stores, delicatessens, fruit and vegetable
markets, butcher shops, health food stores, nut shops, fish markets and
supermarkets. This term shall not include services for the consumption of food
on the premises.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign that is attached to, erected on or supported by
some structure (such as a pole, mast, frame or other structure) that is not
itself an integral part of or attached to a building or other structure whose
principal function is something other than the support of a sign. A sign that
stands without supporting elements, such as “sandwich sign,” is also a
FREESTANDING SIGN. If the message is removed from a structure that was
originally designed and used as a FREESTANDING SIGN, this structure shall still
be considered a sign.
   GARAGES. An accessory structure intended for storing motor vehicles.
   GRADE. Average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of a structure.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of a building measured by taking the sum of
the outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for
occupancy or storage, excluding:
      (1)   Areas used for off-street parking and off-street loading
facilities;
      (2)   The horizontal areas of the basement and cellar floors that are
devoted exclusively to uses accessory to the operation of the entire building;
and
      (3)   The horizontal areas of boiler and mechanical rooms used for
heating, ventilating and air-conditioning equipment whether located on the roof
or within the building.
   GROUNDCOVER. A low perennial plant (excluding annuals) with a mature height
of six inches to 18 inches.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or any combination thereof. A
floor used only for storage is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   HISTORIC MARKER. A sign erected by a duly authorized public authority to
cite a location, place, building or other structure of historical significance,
either locally, regionally or nationally.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use conducted within a dwelling unit and its permitted
accessory buildings which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of
such buildings as a dwelling and which complies with all the regulations of
this code. Garage sales and home sales shall not be considered HOME
OCCUPATIONS.
   HOTEL. A building containing not less than 75 and not more than 300
individual sleeping rooms or suites for the purposes of providing overnight
lodging facilities to the general public for compensation and in which the
principal means of ingress and egress to and from all rooms is made through an
inside lobby supervised by a person in charge at all hours and which provides a
common entrance, halls and stairways. Accessory uses, except as modified by an
other provisions of this code, shall be limited to those uses customarily and
historically accessory to a hotel and provided primarily for the comfort and
accommodation of guests of the HOTEL.
   INTERIOR ROAD/STREET. The portion of a motorway that is intended for access
and circulation within a development and is a minimum of 30 feet in length. An
INTERIOR ROAD is not considered a parking lane, mini-warehouse service lane,
passenger/parcel pickup lane or drive-thru service lane.
   INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGNS. Signs where the source of the illumination is
inside the sign and light emanates through the message of the sign, rather than
being reflected off the surface of the sign from an external source. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, signs that consist of or contain
tubes that are filled with neon or some other gas that glows when an electric
current passes through it and are intended to form or constitute all or part of
the message of the sign, rather than merely providing illumination to other
parts of the sign that contain the message, shall also be considered internally
illuminated signs.
   LANDMARK SIGN. An older sign of historic or artistic merit, or unique
significance to the village such that the character warrants preservation in
original condition or restoration.
   LANDSCAPED SCREENING. A dense non-deciduous planting of a thickness
sufficient to form a visual barrier between the properties involved.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING AREA. The portion of the vehicle accommodation area
used to satisfy the requirements of this article.
   LOT. See LOT, ZONING and LOT OF RECORD.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lot lines of a lot.
   LOT, BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot bounded by the required yards.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the interior
angle formed by such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1321.jpg]   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a lot occupied by all
principal and accessory buildings and paved surfaces.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot located between two other lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1323.jpg]
   LOT LINE. The property boundary line of a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line which abuts a street or a main access drive in
a shopping center. On a corner lot, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be the lot line
having the shorter length abutting a street.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line which is most distant from and parallel to or
most nearly parallel to the front lot line. In an irregularly shaped lot, the
REAR LOT LINE shall be a line at least ten feet in length within the lot,
parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front yard line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line which is not a front yard line or a rear yard
line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds.
   LOT, REVERSE CORNER. A corner lot where the street side lot line is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its
rear.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1325.jpg]
   LOTS-IN-DEPTH. A numbered lot in a recorded subdivision or resubdivision
which is located adjacent to and directly behind another numbered lot in that
subdivision or resubdivision. The LOT-IN-DEPTH derives its only access to a
public street by an access strip narrower than the lot width required by the
underlying zoning district. (Note: This type of subdivision is sometimes
referred to as a “flag lot subdivision.”)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1327.jpg]
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having opposite lot lines along two more or less
parallel streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1329.jpg]
   LOT WIDTH. The width of the lot as measured at the building setback line
from side lot line to side lot line.
   LOT, ZONING. A single tract of land which at the time of filing of an
application for a building or use permit is noted by its owner as a tract to be
used, developed or built upon under unified ownership or control.
   MAJOR BUILDING PROJECT. Any new development which has a land area of greater
than 20 acres or a total building area in a single building or multiple
buildings of greater than 100,000 square feet.
   MANSARD ROOF. A double-sloped roof with the lower slope being longer and
steeper than the upper roof.
   MARQUEE SIGN. A sign painted on or attached to a permanent overhanging
shelter which projects from the face of the building.
   MILLBURN HISTORIC DISTRICT. The area designated as Millburn Historic
District.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4faf103270158307f3f09d5b1a5bd65a770544a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1331.jpg]
   NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS. NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS are located within residential
neighborhoods and provide a natural or landscaped area of three to six acres
accessible to neighborhood residents within approximately a one-half mile
service radius. Such passive or active parks are intended to serve the diverse
needs of all citizens in the neighborhood, including senior citizens’
activities as well as play activities suitable for children of all ages.
   NET SITE BUILDABLE AREA. Land not within floodplain, steep slopes, wetlands,
wetland buffers, designated open space or transitional buffers.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any building or structure and the use
thereof or the use of land that does not conform with the regulations of this
code or any amendment hereto governing use in the district in which it is
located, but conformed with all of the codes, ordinances and other legal
requirements applicable at the time such building or structure was erected,
enlarged or altered, and the use thereof or the use of land was established.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGNS. A sign that draws attention to or communicates
information about a business, service, commodity, accommodation, attraction or
other enterprise or activity that exists or is conducted, sold, offered,
maintained or provided at a location other than the premises on which the sign
is located. A sign that draws attention to a cause or advocates or proclaims a
political, religious or other noncommercial message shall also be an OFF-
PREMISES SIGN unless such sign is excluded from regulation under § 15-D or is
subject to regulation under § 15-E.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign that draws attention to or communicates information
about a business, service, commodity, accommodation, attraction or other
enterprise or activity that exists or is conducted, sold, offered, maintained
or provided on the premises where the sign is located.
   OPEN LAND. A land area with less than 10% tree canopy coverage for the
preceding two years to the present date.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Land used or occupied for the purpose of buying, selling or
renting merchandise out-of-doors.
   OPEN SPACE. The part of a lot not devoted to buildings, structures, parking
or loading areas, driveways or any principal or accessory use.
   OPEN SPACE, USABLE. An area of land or water or a combination of land and
water which may include complementary structures and improvements within the
site, excluding space devoted to parking, designed and intended for common use
and enjoyment.
   PARKING AREA AISLES. The portion of the vehicle accommodation area
consisting of lanes providing access to parking spaces.
   PARKING LANE. The area of a road that abuts a parking space and is for the
purpose of ingress and egress to that parking space.
   PARKING LOT AREA. Any area located within the curbed area used for parking,
excluding areas reserved solely for loading, and landscaped, including islands.
   PARKING SPACE. A portion of the vehicle accommodation area set for the
parking of one vehicle.
   PARKS. Areas of public land developed and maintained primarily as
pleasurable landscaped areas providing for both active and passive recreational
pursuits, including children’s play lots, playgrounds, playfields and special
purpose areas.
   PASSENGER/PARCEL LANE. The portion of a road designated for passenger or
parcel pickup.
   PASSENGER SHELTER. A structure designed to protect from the weather those
awaiting public transportation.
   PEOPLE-ORIENTED GROUND SPACES. Outdoor open spaces adjacent or near
buildings, which are planned and designed for passive or active human use,
including plazas, parks, courts, gardens and play fields.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The Plan Commission of the village.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. An area of minimum size, as specified by this code, to
be planned, developed, operated and maintained as a single entity under unified
ownership or control, containing one or more principal buildings to accommodate
one or more permitted uses or special uses, as allowed by the underlying zoning
district provisions, and appurtenant common areas and other accessory uses
incidental to the principal uses as controlled by the underlying district
provisions. Said development may be subdivided or resubdivided pursuant to
Article 4.
   PLANNING DIRECTOR. The person appointed by the Board of Trustees as the
Planning Director or, in his or her absence, his or her authorized
representative.
   PLANTING AREA. An area of land designated for trees and/or shrubs and/or
groundcovers.
   PLANTING UNIT. A unit of measurement for determining the quantity of plant
materials required for screening and shading a site. One PLANTING UNIT equals:
      (1)   One major deciduous tree;
      (2)   Two minor deciduous trees;
      (3)   Two evergreen trees;
      (4)   Five shrubs; or
      (5)   Five hundred square feet of groundcover.
   POCKET PARKS. Mini parks are small natural or landscaped areas under one
acre which are intended to serve the immediate neighborhood within a one-
quarter mile walking radius. Such parks may include creative play facilities
for the active intensive play of small children. These parks may be passive in
nature as well.
   PRAIRIE. A native plant community characterized by slighting rolling to flat
terrain with deep, rich, fertile soil, primarily dominated by native grasses
and forbs with tree cover less than 50% of the total area.
   PREMISES. A lot, together with all improvements thereon.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign affixed to a building or other structure which
extends more than six inches beyond the surface to which it is affixed.
   PROPERTY LINES. See LOT LINES.
   PUBLIC BUILDING.
      (1)   Any building that serves a public or communal purpose whether
publicly or privately built, or owned by a public, private or nonprofit entity.
Such buildings, facilities and structures shall include, but are not limited
to:
         (a)   Police, fire and emergency services facilities;
         (b)   Public works, maintenance, road, repair or sanitation, including
related yards;
         (c)   Sewage disposal and water distribution, including water storage
towers and tanks;
         (d)   Schools;
         (e)   Churches and synagogues;
         (f)   Park and recreation facilities;
         (g)   Community centers; and
         (h)   Administration buildings.
      (2)   Such buildings shall be reviewed and assessed by the Planning
Director and Plan Commission for conformity to the village’s Comprehensive Plan
and this code. It is the intent of the village that all buildings, not only
privately developed and owned structures, be of a high quality and meet the
village’s design standards.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. Any water supply system furnishing potable water
to ten or more dwelling units or businesses or any combination thereof.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. Any unit designed primarily for living or sleeping
purposes, equipped with wheels or placed upon a wheeled device for the purpose
of transporting from place to place. This term shall include, but not be
limited to, camping trailers, campers, mobile homes, tent trailers, motor
coaches and tent campers, and shall include, also, those wheeled devices upon
which they are placed.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment (excluding bakeries, ice cream stores and
similar businesses) whose principal business is the sale of food and/or liquor
which is prepared and served for immediate consumption either within the
restaurant building itself or off-premises and the development of which takes
the following elements into account:
      (1)   A design which promotes harmonious transitions in scale and
character in areas between different designed land uses;
      (2)   Compatibility of design with the immediate environment of the site;
      (3)   Compatibility with future construction both on and off the site;
      (4)   Amount and arrangement of open space and landscaping appropriate to
the design and function of the structures;
      (5)   Adequate provision for safe and convenient access to the property
and traffic and pedestrian circulation within the property for pedestrians,
cyclists and vehicles;
      (6)   Preservation and integration of the natural features of the
property without and within the project; and
      (7)   Compatibility of the details of design with the adjacent and
neighboring structures and functions.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY. A use accessory to a restaurant where
food is ordered at a remote on-site location adjacent to a traffic lane which
is restricted to vehicles utilizing this service and where, after the order is
placed, the vehicle continues on to a service window to pay for and pick-up the
food ordered.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. An access way dedicated to public use.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, RAILROAD. A strip of land with tracks and appurtenant track
operational facilities.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign which is located above or projects above the lowest point
of the eaves or the top of the parapet wall of any building, or which is
painted or fastened to the roof.
   SCREENING, CLASS A. One planting unit per 15 linear feet of the area to be
screened. Plants shall provide a minimum five-foot high, year-round visual
screen at maturity. Minimum height of screen at installation shall be 30
inches. Additionally, a five-foot high opaque fence or wall may be required in
conjunction with a planting screen.
   SCREENING, CLASS B. One planting unit per 15 linear feet of the area to be
screened. Plants shall provide a minimum three-foot high year-round visual
screen at maturity. Minimum height of screen at installation shall be 18
inches.
   SEAT or SEATING SPACE. A seat shall be the space intended for one
individual. In places where patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews or other
seating facilities; each 18 lineal inches of such seating facilities shall be
counted as one seat.
   SEDIMENT BASINS. Any basin or trap for collecting and controlling debris and
silt.
   SEMI-WOODED LAND. A land area with 10% to 75% tree canopy coverage for the
preceding two years to present date.
   SENIOR CARE FACILITY. An institution for the care of aged or infirm persons.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a lot line and the nearest
side of a structure to such a lot line.
   SHOPPING CENTER/PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A planned development containing one or
more buildings which contain one or more permitted or special uses as allowed
under the zoning provisions of the zoning district in which the development is
located. Not less than 50% of the leasable square footage within the building
within the development shall be devoted to retail business uses.
   SHRUB. A low, multi-stemmed woody plant with a mature height of 18 inches to
15 feet.
   SIGN. Every name, identification, description, announcement, declaration,
demonstration, display, flag, illustration or insignia and the structure
displaying or supporting any of the same, affixed directly or indirectly to or
upon any building or outdoor structure, or erected or maintained upon land,
which directs attention to an object, product, place, activity, person,
institution, organization or business. The term SIGN shall not include any non-
flashing, non-rotating, non-moving, non-animated device which is entirely
within any enclosed building, whether or not said sign or device can be
observed from the outside of the building.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a profession, business,
activity, commodity, service or entertainment other than one conducted, sold or
offered upon the premises where such sign is located, or within the building to
which such sign is affixed.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a profession or business
conducted, or to a commodity, service, activity or entertainment sold or
offered upon the premises where such sign is located or in the building to
which such sign is affixed.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. Any sign identifying individuals or companies involved
in design, construction, wrecking, financing or development when placed upon
the premises where work is under construction, but only for the duration of the
construction or wrecking. Such signs are not intended to be marketing signs but
are intended only to provide information as outlined above.
   SIGN FACE. The surface of the sign upon, against or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited which includes, but is not limited to, the
area which contains the elements of the sign, such as any lettering,
representations, emblems, logos or other figures or messages together with any
material or color which is an integral part of the display or which is used to
differentiate the sign from the background against which it is placed. All
signage elements and/or signage panels comprising the SIGN FACE shall lie on
the same plane or on parallel planes facing the same direction. Gaps or space
between signage elements or signage panels constitute part of the SIGN FACE.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light or lights
are not maintained stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times
when such sign is illuminated. For the purpose of this code, any moving
illuminated sign shall be considered a FLASHING SIGN. A sign whereon the time
and/or temperature is indicated by intermittent lighting shall not be deemed to
be a FLASHING SIGN if the color or intensity of light is constant except for
periodic changes, limited to the numerals indicating the time and/or
temperature, which occur not more frequently than once every three seconds.
   SIGN, GROUND. Any sign or other advertising structure, supported by a pole,
pylon or uprights or braces, or placed upon the ground and not attached to any
building or structure.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outline illuminated by electric lights, luminous tubes or any other means of
artificial illumination.
   SIGN, INSTRUCTIONAL. Any sign which notifies or instructs the public as to
limitations or regulations relating to designated uses of certain parcels of
property or public or private streets or rights-of-way, and including warning
signs, exit signs, traffic signs and directional signs for parking or parking
restrictions.
   SIGN, MOVING. Any sign which revolves, rotates, swings, undulates or
otherwise attracts attention by moving parts, whether operated by mechanical
equipment or by natural sources, but not including flags or banners.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign which is attached to a building or other
structure and extends beyond the line of said building or structure or beyond
the surface of the portion of the building or structure to which it is attached
by more than 12 inches.
   SIGN, READER BOARD. Any advertising structure having changeable copy for the
purpose of advertising special events, sales or to change on a regular basis,
except church bulletin boards, theater marquees and other permanent reader
board signs with changeable copy.
   SIGN, ROOF. Any sign erected, constructed and maintained upon or over the
roof or top of the wall, wall tower or turret of any building with the
principal support on the roof structure.
   SIGN FACE. The surface of the sign upon, against or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign, banner, pennant, valance or advertising display
that by intent is not permanent, constructed of cloth, canvas, lightweight
fabric, cardboard, wallboard or other light-weight materials with or without
frames, intended to be displayed for a short period of time only.
   SIGN, WALL. Any sign attached to and supported by the exterior surface of
the wall of a building or structure in a place substantially parallel to that
of the supporting wall.
   SITE. Any property in its entirety that is to be developed with a building
or buildings from property line to property line.
   SPECIMEN TREE. Any tree included on the village landscape species list or
any tree of impressive size or shape of historical significance, or rare
species, as determined by the Planning Director.
   STEEP SLOPE. Any ground plane with greater than a 25% slope (4:1).
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above, or if there is not floor above, the
space between the floor and the ceiling next above.
   STREET. A public or private right-of-way or easement which affords a primary
means of access to abutting properties. An alley shall not be considered a
STREET.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change other than incidental repairs which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as the addition
or alteration of bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having location on the ground. The term
STRUCTURE shall include buildings but shall not include fences.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. For a building constructed prior to the effective
date of this code, any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a building the
cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either
before the improvement or repair is started, or if the structure has been
damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred. SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT occurs when the first alteration on any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not, however,
include either any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications that are
solely necessary to ensure safe living conditions, or any alteration of a
building listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a State
Inventory of Historic Places.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign that is used in connection with a circumstance,
situation or event that is designed, intended or expected to take place or to
be completed within a reasonably short or definite period after the erection of
such sign. If a sign display area is permanent but the message displayed is
subject to periodic changes, that sign shall not be regarded as temporary.
   TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS. The development rights of a parcel of land
which may be transferred pursuant to Article 3.
   TREE. A woody perennial greater than 15 feet in height at maturity and
usually characterized by a single trunk.
   TREE, EVERGREEN. An evergreen plant with a mature height exceeding 15 feet.
   TREE, MAJOR DECIDUOUS. A canopy tree with a mature height of 30 feet or
greater. The minimum caliper at the time of planting shall be two and one-half
to three inches, in accordance with American Standard for Nursery Stock, latest
edition.
   TREE, MINOR DECIDUOUS. A canopy tree with a mature height less than 30 feet.
The minimum caliper at the time of planting shall be two to two and one-half
inches, in accordance with American Standard for Nursery Stock, latest edition.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or the buildings thereon is
designed, arranged or intended or for which it is occupied or maintained. Each
business entity, occupancy or tenancy shall be deemed a single use. Two or more
business entities, offices, businesses, occupancies or tenancies sharing a
single building or tenant space shall be deemed two or more uses. In those
instances where a single business is operating as more than one business
entity, the Planning Director shall determine whether or not the use will be
deemed a single use.
   USEABLE OPEN SPACE. An area that is not encumbered with any substantial
structure; is not devoted to use as a roadway, parking area or sidewalk; is
left in its natural undisturbed state (except for trails) is landscaped for
ballfields, picnic areas and the like, or is landscaped with the objective of
creating a wooded area; can be used for informal unstructured recreation/
relaxation; and is accessible both practically and legally.
   USE, ACCESSORY. See ACCESSORY.
   USE, INCOMPATIBLE. A use which is adverse to other uses in a district.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. Any established use of land or a structure which is not
a permitted or special use in the district in which such use is located.
   USE, PERMITTED. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district, provided that it conforms with all requirements and regulations of
such district.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use, either permitted or special of land or
buildings as distinguished from a subordinate or accessory use.
   USE, SPECIAL. As listed in each district, a use subject to special
provisions and which, because of unique characteristics, cannot be properly
classified as a permitted use.
   VANITY ADDRESSES. Any method of marking or identifying a property or
building by a non-road or street address.
   VARIATION. An exception of the literal provisions of this code where strict
enforcement of this code would cause undue hardship owing to circumstances
unique to the individual property or which do not occur generally to land or
buildings in the neighborhood.
   VEHICLE ACCOMMODATION AREA. The portion of a lot that is used by vehicles
for access, circulation, parking and loading and unloading. It comprises the
total of circulation areas, loading and unloading areas and parking areas
(spaces and aisles).
   VENDING MACHINE. A machine for dispensing merchandise, designed to be
operated by the consumer.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Old Mill Creek, Lake County, Illinois.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The Mayor and the Board of Trustees of the Village of Old
Mill Creek, Lake County, Illinois.
   VILLAGE TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Old Mill Creek,
Lake County, Illinois.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign painted on, printed on or incorporated into or affixed
to the wall of a building and which extends not more than six inches from the
surface of the building.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT. A business establishment engaged in selling to
retailers or distributors rather than to consumers.
   WOODED LAND. A land area with greater than 75% tree canopy coverage for the
preceding two years to present date.
   YARD. An open space on a lot extending along a lot line and to a depth or
width specified in the yard requirements of the zoning district in which such
lot is located.
   YARD, CORNER SIDE. A side yard which joins a public street.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard bounded by the front lot line and the side lot lines to
a depth specified as the front yard requirement in each district.
   YARD, PERIMETER. A yard abutting the inside of the boundaries of a planned
development.
   YARD, REAR. A yard bounded by the rear lot line and the side lot lines to a
depth specified as the rear yard requirement in each district.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending along a side lot line from the front yard to
the rear yard to a width specified as the side yard requirement in each
district.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. The Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of Old
Mill Creek, Lake County, Illinois.
   ZONING DISTRICTS. The zoning districts referred to in Article 3.
   ZONING MAP. The official zoning map of the village.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. Articles 1 through 6, 16 and 19 of the Village of Old Mill
Creek Development Code.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
ARTICLE 20. EFFECTIVE DATE AND PUBLICATION
§ 20 EFFECTIVE DATE AND PUBLICATION.
   This, the Village Development Code, shall be in full force and effect
immediately after passage, approval and publication hereof according to law.
This code shall be printed and published in pamphlet form.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1993)
APPENDIX: NATIVE PLANT COMMUNITIES LIST
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name                          Common Name
1. Woodlands Plant Community
Acer nigrum                             Black maple
Acer rubrum                             Red maple
Acer saccharum                          Sugar maple
Amelanchier canadensis                  Serviceberry
Amelanchier laevis                      Allegheny shadblow
Betula lutea                            Yellow birch
Carpinus caroliniana                    Blue beech
Carya ovata                             Shagbark hickory
Cercis canadensis                       Redbud
Fagus grandifolia                       Beech
Fraxinus americana                      White ash
Fraxinus nigra                          Black ash
Fraxinus pennsylvanica                  Green ash
Fraxinus quadrangulata                  Blue ash
Gleditsia triacanthos                   Honeylocust
Gymnocladus dioica                      Kentucky coffee tree
Juglans cinera                          Butternut
Juglans nigra                           Black walnut
Larix laricina                          Tamarack
Liriodendron tulipifera                 Tulip tree
Ostrya virginiana                       Ironwood
Pinus strobus                           Eastern white pine
Plantanus occidentalis                  Sycamore
Populus deltoides                       Cottonwood
Populus grandidentata                   Big-tooth aspen
Populus tremuloides                     Quaking aspen
Prunus americana                        Wild plum
Prunus serotina                         Wild black cherry
Prunus virginiana                       Choke cherry
Ptelea trifoliata                       Wafer ash
Quercus alba                            Upland White Oak
Quercus bicolor                         Swamp White Oak
Quercus ellipsoidalis                   Hill’s oak
Quercus imbricaria                      Shingle oak
Quercus macrocarpa                      Bur oak
Quercus muhlenbergii                    Chinquapin oak
Quercus rubra                           Red Oak
Quercus velutina                        Black Oak
Sassafras albidum                       Sassafras
Thuja occidentalis                      Arborvitae
Tilia americana                         Basswood, American Linden
Tsuga canadensis                        Hemlock
Ulmus americana                         American Elm
Ulmusrubra                              Slippery Elm
Herbaceous Materials (Groundcover)
Actea pachypoda                         White baneberry
Actea rubra                             Red baneberry
Anemonella thalictroides                Rue anemone
Aquilegia candensis                     Columbine
Arisaema atrorubens                     Jack-in-the-pulpit
Asarum candense                         Wild ginger
Aster azureus                           Sky-blue aster
Aster lateriflorus                      Side-flowering aster
Aster sagittifolius                     Arrow-leaved aster
Caltha palustris                        Marsh marigold
Caulophyllum thalictroides              Blue cohosh
Claytonia virginica                     Spring beauty
Dryopteris marginalis                   Marginal shield fern, leatherwood fern
Erythronium albidum                     White trout lily, white dog-tooth
                                        violet
Erythronium americanum                  Yellow trout lily, yellow dog-tooth
                                        violet
Galium circaezans hypomalacum           Wild licorice
Geranium maculatum                      Wild geranium
Hepatica acutiloba                      Sharp-lobed hepatica
Hepatica americana                      Round-lobed hepatice
Hystrix patula                          Bottlebrush grass
Impatiens capensis                      Spotted touch-me-not, orange jewelweed
Impatiens pallida                       Pale touch-me-not, yellow jewelweed
Isopyrum biternatum                     False rue amenone
Jeffersonia diphylla                    Twinleaf
Mertensia virginica                     Virgina bluebells
Phlox bifida                            Sand phlox
Phlox divaricat                         Blue phlox, woodland phlox
Podophyllum peltatum                    Map apple
Polemonium reptans                      Jacob’s ladder
Polygonatum canaliculatum               Smooth solomon’s seal
Polygonatum pubescens                   Downy solomon’s seal
Sanguinaria canadensis                  Bookroot
Sanicula gregaria                       Clustered black snakeroot
Smilacina racemosa                      Feathery false solomon’s seal
Smilacina stellata                      Starry false solomon’s seal
Stylophorum diphyllum                   Celandine poppy
Thalictrum dioicum                      Early meadowrue
Trillium erectum                        Ill-scented trillium
Trillium flexipes                       Declined trillium
Trillium grandiflorum                   Large-flowered trillium
Trillium recurvatum                     Red trillium, Prairie trillium
Trillium sessile                        Toad trillium, Yellow trillium
Uvularia grandiflora                    Bellwort, Big merrybells
Viola papilionacea                      Common blue violet (Illinois State
                                        Flower)
Viola pedata lineariloba                Bird’s foot violet
Viola pennsylvanica                     Smooth yellow violet
Viola pubescens                         Downy yellow violet
Viola rostrata                          Long-spurred violet
Viola sororia                           Harry wood violet
Viola striata                           Striped white violet, Cream violet
Midstory Layer
Alnus rugosa americana                  Speckled alder
Celadtrus scandens                      Bittersweet
Ceonothus amercanus                     New Jersey tea
Cornus alternifolia                     Pagoda dogwood
Cornus obliqua                          Silky dogwood
Cornus racemosa                         Gray dogwood
Crataegus calpodendron                  Sugar hawthorn
Crataegus coccinea                      Scarlet hawthorn
Crataegus crus-galli                    Cockspur hawthorn
Crataegus intricata                     Thicket hawthorn
Crataegus macrosperma                   Large-seeded hawthorn
Crataegus mollis                        Downy hawthorn
Crataegus pruinosa                      Frosted hawthorn
Crataegus punctata                      Dotted hawthorn
Crataegus rotundifolia                  Round-leaved hawthorn
Diervilla lonicera                      Dwarf honeysuckle
Euonymus atropurpureus                  Wahoo, Burning bush
Hamamelis virginiana                    Witch hazel
Malus coronaria                         Prairie crab, Wild sweet crab
Malus ioensis                           Iowa crab
Physocarpus opulifolius                 Ninebark
Pyros americana                         Wild plum
Rhus aromatica                          Fragrant sumac
Rhus copallina latifolia                Shining sumac
Rhus glabra                             Smooth sumac
Rhus tuyphina                           Staghorn sumac (edge)
Ribes americanun                        Wild black current
Ribes cynosbati                         Prickly wild gooseberry
Ribes hirtellum                         Horthern gooseberry
Ribes missouriense                      Wild gooseberry
Rosa setigera                           Illinois rose, Prairie rose (edge)
Rubus allegheniensis                    Common blackberry (edge)
Rubus occidentalis                      Black raspberry (edge)
Rubus odoratus                          Purple flowing raspberry
Sambucus canadensis                     Elderberry
Vaccinum angustifolium laevifolium      Early low blueberry
Viburnum acerifolium                    Male-leaved arrowwood
Viburnum dentatum                       Smooth arrowwood
Viburnum lentago                        Nannyberry
Viburnum prunifolium                    Blackhaw viburnum
Viburnum rafinesquianum                 Downy arrowwood
Viburnum vacillans                      Late low blueberry
2. Prairie Plant Community
Grasses
Andropogon gerardii                     Big bluestem
Andropogon scoparius                    Little bluestem
Bouteloua curtipendula                  Side-oats grama
Bouteloua gracilis                      Blue grama
Elymus canadensis                       Nodding Canada wild rye
Hierochloe odorata                      Vanilla grass
Koeleria cristata                       Junegrass
Panicum virgatum                        Switchgrass
Sorghastrum nutans                      Indianaglass
Spartina pectinata                      Pairie cord grass
Sporobolus heterolepis                  Northern dropseed
Stipa spartea                           Needlegrass
Herbaceous Materials
Allium cemuum                           Nodding wild onion
Anemone cylindrica                      Thimbleweed
Anemone patens wolfgangiana             Pasque flower (dry)
Asclepias sullivantii                   Sullivant’s milkweed
Asclepias syriaca                       Common milkweed
Asclepias tuberosa                      Butterfly weed
Asclepias verticillata                  Horsetail milkweed
Aster azureus                           Sky blue aster
Aster ericoides                         Heath aster
Aster laevis                            Smooth aster
Aster novae-angliae                     New England aster
Aster oblongifolius                     Aromatic aster (dry)
Aster ptarmicoides                      Stiff aster, Upland white aster (dry)
Aster sericeus                          Silky aster (dry)
Aster umbellatus                        Flot top aster (wet)
Baptisia leucantha                      White false indigo
Baptisia leucophaea                     Cream false indigo
Cacalia tuberosa                        Indiana plantain
Camassia scilloides                     Prairie hyacinth
Coreopsis palmata                       Prairie tickseed
Coreopsis tripteris                     Tall coreopsis
Desmoclium canadense                    Showy tricktrefoil
Desmondium illinoense                   Illinois tricktrefoil
Dcxiecatheon meadia                     Shooting star
Echinacea pallida                       Pale purple coneflower
Echinacea purpurea                      Purple coneflower
Erynigium yuccifolium                   Rattlesnake-master
Euphoria corollata                      Flowering spurge
Filipendula rubra                       Queen-of-the-prarie
Gentiana andrewsii                      Bottle gentian
Gentiana puberula                       Downy gentian
Ipomoea Leptophylla                     Bush morning-glory
Liatris aspera                          Rough blazing-star
Liatris cylindracea                     Cylindric blazing-star
Liatris pycnostachya                    Prairie blazing-star
Lithospermum canescens                  Prairie puccon
Lobelia cardinalis                      Cardinal flower
Parthenium integrifolium                Wild quinine
Penstemon digitalis                     White-flowered penstemon
Petalostemon candidum                   White prairie clover
Petalostemon purpureum                  Purple prairie clover
Phlox pilosa                            Prairie phlox
Physostegia virginiana                  False dragonhead
Polytaenia nuttallii                    Prairie phlox
Potentilla arguta                       Prairie conquefoil
Ratibida pinnata                        Yellow conflower
Rudbeckia subtomentosa                  Sweet coneflower
Silphium laciniatum                     Compass plant
Silphium tereginthinaceum               Prairie dock
Solidago rigida                         Stiff glodenrod
Solidago speciosa                       Showy goldenrod
Veronic astrum virginicum               Culver’s root
Zizia aptera                            Heart-leaved golden Alexanders
Zizia aurea                             Golden Alexanders
Shrubs
Amorpha canescens                       Leadplant
Ceanothus americanus                    New Jersey tea
Rosa setigera                           Illinois rose, Prairie rose
Shepherdia canadensis                   Buffalo berry
3. Floodplain Plant Community
Herbaceous Materials
Actinomeris alternifolia                Wingsterm
Allium canadense                        Wild onion, wild garlic
Amphicarpa bracteata                    Hog peanut (weepy)
Asarum canadense                        Wild ginger
Campanula americana                     Tall bellflower
Claytonia virginica                     Spring beauty
Cryptotaenia canadensis                 Honeywort
Elymus virginicus                       Wild virginia rye
Galium aparine                          Annual bedstraw
Geum canadense                          White avens, Wood avens
Glyceria striata                        Fowl meadow grass, Fowl manna grass
Impatiens capensis                      Spotted touch-me-not, Orange jewelweed
Laportea canadensis                     Wood nettle
Lysimachia ciliata                      Fringed loosestrife
Menispennum canadense                   Moonseed
Osmorhiza claytoni                      Hairy sweet cicely
Phox divaricata                         Blue phlox, Woodland phlox
Ranunculus abortivus                    Small-flowered buttercup
Ranunculus spetentrionalis              Swamp buttercup
Rudbeckia laciniata                     Wild golden glow
Sanicula gregaria                       Clustered black snakeroot
Tovara virginiana                       Woodland knotweed
Viola papilionacea                      Common blue violet
Zizia aurea                             Golden alexanders
Shrubs
Crataegus mollis                        Downy hawthorn
Euonymus atropurpureus                  Burning bush
Ribes americanum                        Wild black currant
Sambucus canadensis                     Elderberry
Parthenocissus quinquefolia             Virginia creeper
Vitis riparia                           Riverbank grape
Trees
Acer negundo                            Box elder
Acer nigrum                             Black maple
Acer rubrum                             Red maple
Acer saccharinum                        Silver maple
Betula nigra                            River birch
Celtis occidentalis                     Hackberry
Fraxinus americana                      White ash
Fraxinus pennsylvanica                  Green ash
Gleditsia triacanthos                   Honeylocust
Gymnocladus dioica                      Kentucky coffee tree
Juglans cinera                          Butternut
Plantanus occidentalis                  Sycamore
Populus deltoides                       Cottonwood
Prunus serotina                         Wild black cherry
Quercus bicolor                         Swamp white oak
Salix interior                          Sandbar willow
Salix nigra                             Black willow
Ulmus americana                         American elm
Ulmus rubra                             Slippery elm
4. Wetlands Plant Community
Aquatics
Nelumbo lutea                           American lotus
Nuphar species                          Yellow pond lilies
Nymphaea tuberosa                       Tuberous white waterlily
Peltandra virginica                     Arrow arum
Pontderia cordata                       Pickerel weed
Sagittaria species                      Arrowhead
Aparganium eurcarpum                    Giant bur weed
Zizania aquatica                        Wild rice
Semiaguatics
Angelica atropurpurea (other species in Anglica
West)
Acorns calamus                          Sweet flag
Asclepias incarnata                     Swamp milkweed
Betula lutea                            Yellow birch
Calamagrostis canadensis                Bluejoint grass
Caltha palustris (C. howellii in        Marsh marigold
California and Oregon)
Cephalanthus occidentalis               Buttonbush
Chelone glabra                          Turtlehead
Iris versicolor                         Wild blue flag
Lobelia cardinalis                      Cardinal flower
Lobelia siphilitica                     Great blue lobelia
Phragmites communis                     Wild reed
Physostegia virginiana                  False dragonhead
Quercus palustris                       Pin oak
Taxodium distichum                      Bald cypress
Typha species                           Cattail
5. Savanna Plant Community
                                       Bitternut Hickory
                                       Big Blue Stem
                                       Side Oats Grama
                                       Fringed Brome
                                       Woodland Brome
                                       Sedge Species
                                       Beak Grass
                                       Prairie Wild Rye
                                       Silky Wild Rye
                                       Nodding Fescue
                                       Bottlebush Grass
                                       Roadside Rush
                                       Rock Satin Grass
                                       Indian Grass
                                       Prairie Dropseed
                                       Spike Grass
                                       Yellow Giant Hyssop
                                       Spreading Dogbane
                                       Wild Columbine
                                       Jack in the Pulpit
                                       Purple Milkweed
                                       Blue Wild Indigo
                                       Cream Wild Indigo
                                       Ohio Horse Mink
                                       Pale Indiana Plantain
                                       Hirsute Sedge
                                       Spring Beauty
                                       Poverty Oat Grass
                                       Dwarf Larkspur
                                       Prairie Larkspur
                                       Showy Trick Trefoil
                                       Dutchman’s Breeches
                                       Purple Joe Pye Weed
                                       Northern Bedstraw
                                       Wild Geranium
                                       Yellow False Foxglove
                                       Common Witch Hazel
                                       Common Rockrose
                                       Western Sunflower
                                       False Sunflower
                                       Bluets
                                       Great Waterleaf
                                       Pale Touch-Me-Not
                                       False Dandelion
                                       Blue Lettuce
                                       Round-Headed Bush Clover
                                       VeinyPea
                                       Pale Spiked Lobelia
                                       Fringed Loosestrife
                                       Rock Satin Grass
                                       Glade Mallow
                                       Prairie Betony
                                       Foxglove Beard Tongue
                                       Large-Flowered Beard
                                       Hairy Beard Tongue
                                       White Prairie Clover
                                       Garden Phlox
                                       Prairie Phlox
                                       Field Milkwort
                                       Prairie Parsley
                                       Prairie Cinquefoil
                                       Rough White Lettuce
                                       Scurfy Pea
                                       Water ash
                                       Hairy Mountain Mint
                                       Common Mountain Mint
                                       Early Buttercup
                                       Elderberry
                                       Mullein Foxglove
                                       Royal Catchfly
                                       Starry Campion
                                       Starry False Solomon
                                       Early Goldenrod
                                       Downy Ragged Goldenrod
                                       Elm-leaved Goldenrod
                                       Yellow Pimpernel
                                       Purple Meadow Rue
                                       Early Meadow Rue
                                       Early Horse Gentian
                                       Spike Grass
                                       Golden Alexanders
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   STREET VACATIONS
      
II.   DESIGNATING LANDMARKS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION AREAS
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
IV.   ANNEXATIONS/DISCONNECTIONS
      
V.   SPECIAL USE PERMITS
      
VI.   AGREEMENTS
      
VII.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: STREET VACATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
                             Vacating part of Kelley Road between the west line
                             of Crawford Road and the west line of Newport
80-0-3        6-17-1980      Township; and part of Kelley Road between the east
                             Village Limits and 380 yards from center of Hunt
                             Club Road.
                             Vacating part of Kelley Road between the west line
82-0-         9-21-1982      of Crawford Road and the west line of Newport
                             Township, being a distance of 1,300 feet.
                             Vacating part of Kelly Road east of Hunt Club Road
1998-0-1      1-12-1998      and west of Route 294, with said road vesting in
                             the owner of the land abutting thereon.
                            
 
TABLE II: DESIGNATING LANDMARKS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION AREAS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
2002-0-1      3-11-2002      Designating Historic Preservation area as outlined
                             in Exhibit A of this ordinance.
2003-0-7      7-14-2003      Designating Historic Preservation area as outlined
                             in Exhibit A of this ordinance.
2004-0-08     10-11-2004     Approving landmark designation (Millburn
                             Cemetery).
2005-0-11     12-12-2005     Approving landmark designation (Trophy room).
2006-0-4      5-8-2006       Approving landmark designation (Turner House).
2006-0-10     9-11-2006      Approving landmark designation (Mill Creek Hunt
                             Club).
                            
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
1993-0-7      7-12-1993      Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 1993-0-6.
1993-0-9      10-11-1993     Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 1993-0-8.
1994-0-2      4-11-1994      Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 1994-0-1.
1997-0-2      8-11-1997      Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 1997-0-1.
1998-0-3      8-10-1998      Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 1998-0-2.
1998-0-5      9-14-1998      Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 1998-0-4.
1998-0-7      9-14-1998      Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 1998-0-6.
1998-0-9      9-14-1998      Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 1998-0-8.
1998-0-13     11-9-1998      Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 1998-0-12.
2000-0-71     9-11-2000      Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 2000-0-70.
2000-0-11     11-13-2000     Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 2000-0-10.
2000-0-15     11-13-2000     Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 2000-0-14.
2000-0-17     11-13-2000     Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 2000-0-16.
2000-0-19     11-13-2000     Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 2000-0-18.
2001-0-2      1-8-2001       Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 2001-0-1.
2001-0-03     1-8-2001       Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 2001-0-3.
2004-0-3      5-10-2004      Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 2004-0-2.
2004-0-11     12-13-2004     Amending zoning map to include land annexed in
                             Ord. 2004-0-10.
2008-0-5      5-12-2008      38290 N U.S. Highway 45 changed from RR to SR.
Res. -        3-14-2011      Adopting revised zoning map.
Res. -        5-9-2011       Changing zoning for 38565 North Highway 45 from R-
                             3 to SR.
                             Amending zoning map to change classification on
2011-0-4      6-13-2011      the property shown on the map included in this
                             ordinance from R-3 to SR-3.
                            
 
TABLE IV: ANNEXATIONS/DISCONNECTIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
                             Annexing certain territories to the village (the
                             north one-half of the northwest quarter of Section
60-0-3        - -            29, Township 46 North, Range 11, east of the Third
                             P.M., except the north 330 feet thereof and the
                             east 330 feet thereof).
                             Annexing certain territories to the village (all
                             that part of the west half of Section 28, Township
67-0-         4- -1967       46 North, Range 11, east of the Third P.M.,
                             bounded by a line described further in the
                             ordinance).
59-0-5        3-24-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Rappaport property).
59-0-6        3-24-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Frizzell property).
59-0-7        3-24-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Simpson property).
59-0-8        3-24-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village (Kelly
                             property).
59-0-9        3-24-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village (Lyons
                             property).
59-0-10       3-24-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Williams property).
59-0-11       4-21-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Serdar property).
59-0-12       5-19-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Smalley property).
59-0-13       6-16-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village (Lyons
                             and Jenkins property).
59-0-14       6-16-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Wallace property).
59-0-15       6-16-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Vanderspool property).
59-0-16       6-16-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Haisma property).
59-0-19       7-21-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Whipple and Pope property).
59-0-20       7-21-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village (the
                             Exchange National Bank of Chicago property).
59-0-21       7-21-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Morris property).
59-0-22       7-21-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village (Behr
                             property).
59-0-23       7-21-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village (Snell
                             property).
59-0-24       7-21-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Bilharz property).
59-0-25       8-18-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Perrin property).
59-0-26       8-18-1959      Annexing certain territories to the village (Burke
                             property).
59-0-28       12-29-1959     Annexing certain territories to the village (Korff
                             property).
59-0-29       12-29-1959     Annexing certain territories to the village (First
                             National Bank of America property).
                             Annexing certain territories to the village (the
                             east half of the southeast quarter of the
60-0-2        3-15-1960      northwest quarter of Section 32, Township 46
                             North, Range 11, east of the Third P.M., excepting
                             therefrom the east 330 feet thereof and the south
                             330 feet thereof)
                             Annexing certain territories to the village (the
                             north half of the northwest quarter of Section 29,
60-0-3        3-15-1960      Township 46 North, Range 11, east of the Third
                             P.M., except the north 330 feet thereof and the
                             east 330 feet thereof).
                             Annexing certain territories to the village (the
                             southeast quarter of the southeast quarter except
                             the part thereof lying and being in the Illinois
63-0-2        2-28-1963      Roll Road right-of-way of Section 17, Township 46
                             North, Range 11, east of the Third P.M., and the
                             northeast quarter (except the south half of the
                             southwest quarter thereof) of Section 20, Township
                             46 North, Range 11, east of the Third P.M.).
                             Annexing certain territories to the village (the
63-0-3        2-28-1963      southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of
                             Section 17, Township 46 North, Range 11, east of
                             the Third P.M.
63-0-9        11-19-1963     Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Leable property).
                             Annexing certain territories to the village (part
67-0-26       4-18-1967      of the west half of Section 28, Township 46 North,
                             Range 11 east of the Third P.M., bounded by a line
                             described on the map included in this ordinance.
81-4          12-7-1981      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Tempel Steel Company).
-             8-4-1987       Disconnection of property (see map attached to
                             ordinance).
1993-0-5      7-12-1993      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Tempel Steel Company).
1993-0-6      7-12-1993      Annexing certain territories to the village (as
                             mapped in Exhibit A of this ordinance).
1993-0-8      10-11-1993     Annexing certain territories to the village (as
                             mapped in Exhibit A of this ordinance).
1993-0-12     11-29-1993     Annexing certain territories to the village (as
                             mapped in Exhibit A of this ordinance).
1994-0-1      4-11-1994      Annexing certain territories to the village (the
                             Church/Bruner annex).
1997-0-1      8-11-1997      Annexing certain territories to the village (as
                             mapped in Exhibit A of this ordinance).
1998-0-2      8-10-1998      Annexing certain territories to the village (ten
                             acres on the east side of Hunt Club Road).
1998-0-4      9-14-1998      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Masonic Lodge).
1998-0-6      9-14-1998      Annexing certain territories to the village (see
                             map provided in ordinance).
1998-0-8      9-14-1998      Annexing certain territories to the village (see
                             map provided in ordinance).
1998-0-12     11-9-1998      Annexing certain territories to the village (see
                             map provided in ordinance).
2000-0-70     9-11-2000      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Watkins property).
2000-0-10     11-13-2000     Annexing certain territories to the village (Hunt
                             Club and Fugget property).
2000-0-12     11-13-2000     Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Masonic Lodge property).
2000-0-13     11-13-2000     Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Masonic Lodge property).
2000-0-14     11-13-2000     Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Millburn Cemetery).
2000-0-16     11-13-2000     Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Sherin property).
2000-0-18     11-13-2000     Annexing certain territories to the village (see
                             map provided in ordinance).
2001-0-1      1-8-2001       Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Anderson property).
2001-0-3      4-9-2001       Annexing certain territories to the village (see
                             map provided in ordinance).
2001-0-7      6-11-2001      Annexing certain territories to the village (see
                             map provided in ordinance).
2001-0-8      6-11-2001      Annexing certain territories to the village (RJB
                             strip mall).
2001-0-9      6-11-2001      Annexing certain territories to the village (RJB
                             strip mall).
                             Annexing to the village the property described
2004-0-2      5-10-2004      herein, better known as the Hunt Club Limited
                             Partnership (Bruce Church).
2004-0-9      12-13-2004     Annexation agreement between the village and
                             Michael McClure.
2004-0-10     12-13-2004     Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (McClure property).
2005-0-19     4-11-2005      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Sebesta property).
2005-0-20     4-11-2005      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Revolta property).
2005-0-21     6-13-2005      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Keating property).
2005-0-10     11-14-2005     Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Gerber property).
2007-0-3      4-9-2007       Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Shangraw property).
2007-0-7      9-10-2007      Annexing certain territories to the village
                             (Hutchins Road Holdings LLC; Littner parcel).
2016-0-1      6-6-2016       Annexing certain territories to the village (Route
                             45 at Independence Boulevard).
2016-0-2      6-6-2016       Annexing certain territories to the village (Route
                             45 at Forest Trail Subdivision).
2016-0-3      8-1-2016       Disconnecting territory from the village (Route 45
                             at Country Place).
2022-0-2      4-11-2022      Disconnecting territory from the village (13 pages
                             of exhibits describing territory).
                            
 
TABLE V: SPECIAL USE PERMITS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
1994-0-3      4-11-1994      Special use permit granted to the property annexed
                             in Ord. 1994-0-1.
2004-0-5      9-13-2004      Granting zoning variation for property at 39045
                             North Highway 45 (Garage for Hirth/Jankowski).
2004-0-15     12-13-2004     Approving special use permit (Millburn Church).
2005-0-7      7-11-2005      Approving special use permit (Brooks Agricultural
                             Fencing).
2006-0-15     10-9-2006      Approving special use permit (Millburn Church
                             fence).
2007-0-1      7-12-2007      Approving special use permit (Tempel Farms
                             agricultural building expansion).
2008-0-6      5-12-2008      Authorizing special use permit (38290 N U.S.
                             Highway 45, Brooks property).
2009-0-4      4-13-2009      Authorizing special use permit (19176 W. Grass
                             Lake Road).
2015-0-1      5-4-2015       Approving zoning variation (northeast corner of
                             Route 45 and Stearns School Road).
2015-0-3      6-1-2015       Approving special use permit (19203 W. Grass Lake
                             Road).
2017-0-4      8-14-2017      Property variation approved (38218 N U.S. Highway
                             45 for the erection of a sound barrier).
2017-0-5      8-14-2017      Approving special use permit (38218 N. US Highway
                             45 for a sound barrier).
                            
 
TABLE VI: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.    Date Passed Description
                             Permitting use of public ways by Commonwealth
94-0-4           5-11-1994   Edison Company to the purpose of construction,
                             operation and maintenance of an electric system.
                             Agreement with the county to establish a special
1994-0-5         7-11-1994   service area which includes certain areas of the
                             village.
95-0-3           5-8-1995    Agreement with Illinois Bell Telephone Company.
-                9-13-1999   Agreement with the county to annex area.
-                11-8-1999   Agreement with Warren Road District to provide
                             snow plowing service.
                             Approving intergovernmental agreement with the
2001-0-6         6-11-2001   Village of Winthrop Harbor for the provision of
                             police services.
                             Agreement with Commonwealth Edison company
Res. 2002-R-2002 5-13-2002   regarding the management of vegetation near the
                             electric power lines in the village.
2006-0-11        9-11-2006   Jurisdictional transfer of Hutchins Road to the
                             county.
                             Intergovernmental agreement with the Village of
2006-0-16        11-13-2006  Beach Park, the Village of Winthrop Harbor and the
                             Village of Wadsworth relating to the adjudication
                             court system.
                             Intergovernmental agreement with the Village of
2008-0-9         11-17-2008  Wadsworth, Newport Township and the Newport
                             Township Fire Protection District for a combined
                             notification system.
2009-0-1         1-26-2009   Intergovernmental cooperation agreement
                             authorizing the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
2018-0-1         2-12-2018   Intergovernmental agreement with the State
                             Department of Transportation.
                            
 
TABLE VII: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             2-17-1959   Granting electric, light and power system franchise
                          to Commonwealth Edison Company.
-             7-16-1963   Granting a gas franchise to North Shore Gas Company.
69-0-34       8-19-1969   Granting telephone company franchise to the Illinois
                          Bell Telephone Company.
95-0-4        5-8-1995    Granting a gas franchise to North Shore Gas Company.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
 
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                     Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                 10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                 10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                 10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                 10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                 10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                 10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                 10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                    10.04
5 ILCS 120/1                   33.08
5 ILCS 425 et seq.             33.06
5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.           33.06
5 ILCS 425/35                  33.06
5 ILCS 425/83                  33.06
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.         33.07
5 ILCS 430/5-15                33.07
5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40 33.07
5 ILCS 430/50-5                33.07
5 ILCS 430/70-5                33.07
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)             33.07
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)             33.07
65 ILCS                        Chapter 157, App. A
65 ILCS 5                      10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1              10.99
65 ILCS 5/11-13-14             Chapter 157, App. A
65 ILCS 5/11-95-1 et seq.      32.03
215 ILCS 125/3-1 et seq.       112.044;
                               112.045
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.          151.19
220 ILCS 65/4                  151.08
225 ILCS 440/1 et seq.         Chapter 158, App. A
230 ILCS 15/01 et seq.         111.27
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.         112.001
235 ILCS 5/6-21                112.006
225 ILCS 440/1 et seq.         Chapter 158, App. A
605 ILCS 5/9-112 et seq.       Chapter 158, App. A
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.       71.99
625 ILCS 5/1-188               10.02
625 ILCS 5/101 et seq          70.01
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.       130.11
740 ILCS 115/5                 130.99
765 ILCS 120/1 et seq.         152.03
                               
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
2002-R-2002 5-13-2002   TSO Table VI
-           3-14-2011   TSO Table III
-           5-9-2011    TSO Table III
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed  Code Section
60-0-3    - -            TSO Table IV
                         11.01;
                         30.01—
                         30.05;
                         30.20—
                         30.24;
                         30.99;
59-0-1    1-20-1959      31.01—
                         31.03;
                         31.15;
                         31.16;
                         32.01;
                         33.01—
                         33.04;
                         33.99
-         2-17-1959      TSO Table VII
59-0-5    3-24-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-6    3-24-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-7    3-24-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-8    3-24-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-9    3-24-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-10   3-24-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-11   4-21-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-12   5-19-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-13   6-16-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-14   6-16-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-15   6-16-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-16   6-16-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-19   7-21-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-20   7-21-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-21   7-21-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-22   7-21-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-23   7-21-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-24   7-21-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-25   8-18-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-26   8-18-1959      TSO Table IV
59-0-28   12-29-1959     TSO Table IV
59-0-29   12-29-1959     TSO Table IV
60-0-2    3-15-1960      TSO Table IV
60-0-3    3-15-1960      TSO Table IV
60-0-5    7-19-1960      150.01;
                         150.99
                         156.01—
                         156.06;
                         156.20—
                         156.28;
60-       8-16-1960      156.40—
                         156.45;
                         156.60—
                         156.62;
                         156.99
63-0-2    2-28-1963      TSO Table IV
63-0-3    2-28-1963      TSO Table IV
63-0-5    7-6-1963       32.02
-         7-16-1963      TSO Table VII
63-0-8    11-19-1963     90.01;
                         90.99
63-0-9    11-19-1963     TSO Table IV
                         155.01—
-         11- -1964      155.11;
                         155.99
65-0-21   10-19-1965     110.01
66-0-22   4-19-1966      91.01;
                         91.99
67-0-     4- -1967       TSO Table IV
67-0-26   4-18-1967      TSO Table IV
67-0-28   8-15-1967      150.03;
                         150.99
69-0-34   8-19-1969      TSO Table VII
71-0-40   12-21-1971     Ch. 73, Sched. II
71-0-41   1-18-1972      72.01;
                         72.99
-         9-20-1977      Ch. 73, Sched. I
79-0-     8-21-1979      155.12
80-0-3    6-17-1980      TSO Table I
10        10-21-1980     TSO Table IV
81-4      12-7-1981      TSO Table IV
82-0-     9-21-1982      TSO Table I
83-0-12   4-19-1983      111.01—
                         111.10
-         8-4-1987       TSO Table IV
-         11-11-1991     157.01;
                         Chapter 157, App. A
-         5-10-1993      158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
1993-0-5  7-12-1993      TSO Table IV
1993-0-6  7-12-1993      TSO Table IV
1993-0-7  7-12-1993      TSO Table III
1993-0-8  10-11-1993     TSO Table IV
1993-0-9  10-11-1993     TSO Table III
1993-0-12 11-29-1993     TSO Table IV
1994-0-1  4-11-1994      TSO Table IV
1994-0-2  4-11-1994      TSO Table III
1994-0-3  4-11-1994      TSO Table V
94-0-4    5-11-1994      TSO Table VI
1994-0-5  7-11-1994      TSO Table VI
1995-0-1  2-13-1995      155.11;
                         155.99
95-0-3    5-8-1995       TSO Table VI
95-0-4    5-8-1995       TSO Table VII
1997-0-1  8-11-1997      TSO Table IV
1997-0-2  8-11-1997      TSO Table III
1998-0-1  1-12-1998      TSO Table I
1998-0-2  8-10-1998      TSO Table IV
1998-0-3  8-10-1998      TSO Table III
1998-0-4  9-14-1998      TSO Table IV
1998-0-5  9-14-1998      TSO Table III
1998-0-6  9-14-1998      TSO Table IV
1998-0-7  9-14-1998      TSO Table III
1998-0-8  9-14-1998      TSO Table IV
1998-0-9  9-14-1998      TSO Table III
1998-0-12 11-9-1998      TSO Table IV
1998-0-13 11-9-1998      TSO Table III
                         152.01—
1999-0-2  6-14-1999      152.10;
                         152.99
1999-0-3  6-14-1999      33.06
-         9-13-1999      TSO Table VI
-         11-8-1999      TSO Table VI
1999-0-9  11-8-1999      91.02;
                         91.99
2000-0-70 9-11-2000      TSO Table IV
2000-0-71 9-11-2000      TSO Table III
2000-0-10 11-13-2000     TSO Table IV
2000-0-11 11-13-2000     TSO Table III
2000-0-12 11-13-2000     TSO Table IV
2000-0-13 11-13-2000     TSO Table IV
2000-0-14 11-13-2000     TSO Table IV
2000-0-15 11-13-2000     TSO Table III
2000-0-16 11-13-2000     TSO Table IV
2000-0-17 11-13-2000     TSO Table III
2000-0-18 11-13-2000     TSO Table IV
2000-0-19 11-13-2000     TSO Table III
2001-0-1  1-8-2001       TSO Table IV
2001-0-2  1-8-2001       TSO Table III
2001-0-03 1-8-2001       TSO Table III
2001-0-3  4-9-2001       TSO Table IV
2001-0-5  6-11-2001      70.01
2001-0-6  6-11-2001      TSO Table VI
2001-0-7  6-11-2001      TSO Table IV
2001-0-8  6-11-2001      TSO Table IV
2001-0-9  6-11-2001      TSO Table IV
2002-0-1  3-11-2002      TSO Table II
2002-0-2  7-8-2002       91.03;
                         91.99
                         130.01—
2003-0-4  6-11-2003      130.03;
                         130.99
2003-0-5  6-11-2003      130.04;
                         130.99
                         130.05—
2003-0-6  7-14-2003      130.11;
                         130.99
2003-0-7  7-14-2003      TSO Table II
2003-0-8  8-11-2003      112.006
2004-0-1  5-10-2004      33.07
2004-0-2  5-10-2004      TSO Table IV
2004-0-3  5-10-2004      TSO Table III
2004-0-04 7-12-2004      33.08
2004-0-5  9-13-2004      TSO Table V
2004-0-6  9-13-2004      158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2004-0-7  9-13-2004      111.25—
                         111.33
2004-0-08 10-11-2004     TSO Table II
2004-0-9  12-13-2004     TSO Table IV
2004-0-10 12-13-2004     TSO Table IV
2004-0-11 12-13-2004     TSO Table III
2004-0-15 12-13-2004     TSO Table V
2005-0-5  3-14-2005      33.05
2005-0-6  3-14-2005      158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2005-0-18 4-11-2005      158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2005-0-19 4-11-2005      TSO Table IV
2005-0-20 4-11-2005      TSO Table IV
2005-0-21 6-13-2005      TSO Table IV
2005-0-7  7-11-2005      TSO Table V
2005-0-8  8-8-2005       158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2005-0-9  11-14-2005     70.02;
                         70.99
2005-0-10 11-14-2005     TSO Table IV
2005-0-11 12-12-2005     TSO Table II
                         112.001—
                         112.005;
                         112.007;
                         112.020—
                         112.022;
                         112.035—
2006-0-2  3-13-2006      112.046;
                         112.060;
                         112.061;
                         112.075—
                         112.077;
                         112.090—
                         112.094;
                         112.999
2006-0-4  5-8-2006       TSO Table II
2006-0-5  6-12-2006      158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2006-0-6  6-12-2006      71.01;
                         71.99
2006-0-10 9-11-2006      TSO Table II
2006-0-11 9-11-2006      TSO Table VI
2006-0-15 10-9-2006      TSO Table V
2006-0-16 11-13-2006     TSO Table VI
2007-0-3  4-9-2007       TSO Table IV
2007-0-5  7-9-2007       158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2007-0-1  7-12-2007      TSO Table V
2007-0-7  9-10-2007      TSO Table IV
2007-0-8  9-10-2007      158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2008-0-2  1-14-2008      151.01—
                         151.24
2008-0-3  2-11-2008      158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
                         151.25;
2008-0-4  4-14-2008      151.26;
                         151.99
2008-0-5  5-12-2008      TSO Table III
2008-0-6  5-12-2008      TSO Table V
2008-0-9  11-17-2008     TSO Table VI
2008-0-10 11-17-2008     158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2009-0-1  1-26-2009      TSO Table VI
2009-0-2  2-9-2009       150.02;
                         150.99
2009-0-3  4-13-2009      32.03
2009-0-4  4-13-2009      TSO Table V
2009-0-6  8-10-2009      158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2009-0-7  8-10-2009      32.03
2009-0-8  8-10-2009      33.09
2010-0-9  10-11-2010     158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2010-0-10 11-8-2010      158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2011-0-1  5-9-2011       157.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2011-0-2  5-9-2011       158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2011-0-3  5-9-2011       158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2011-0-4  6-13-2011      TSO Table III
2011-0-5  6-13-2011      158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2012-0-4  9-10-2012      158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2013-0-2  8-12-2013      154.01
2013-0-3  9-9-2013       158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2015-0-1  5-4-2015       TSO Table V
2015-0-2  6-1-2015       158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2015-0-3  6-1-2015       TSO Table V
2015-0-4  11-2-2015      158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2016-0-1  6-6-2016       TSO Table IV
2016-0-2  6-6-2016       TSO Table IV
2016-0-3  8-1-2016       TSO Table IV
2017-0-4  8-14-2017      TSO Table V
2017-0-5  8-14-2017      TSO Table V
2018-0-1  2-12-2018      TSO Table VI
2018-0-2  2-12-2018      Ch. 74, Sched. I
2018-0-3  8-20-2018      153.01—
                         153.23
                         157.01;
2022-0-1  3-14-2022      Chapter 157, App. A;
                         158.01;
                         Chapter 158, App. A
2022-0-2  4-11-2022      TSO Table IV
2023-2    5-8-2023       30.26
2023-3    5-8-2023       30.25
2023-6    11-13-2023     130.12;
                         130.99
2023-1    3-13-2023      112.038
2023-04   8-14-2023      30.25
2023-05   8-14-2023      30.26
2024-     - -2024        33.10
2024-3    5-13-2024      112.038
2024-4    6-10-2024      Chapter 158, App. A
2025-1    3-10-2025      Chapter 158, App. A
2025-2    3-10-2025      150.02
2025-3    6-9-2025       152.03
2025-4    8-1-2025       152.03
                        
 
