OREANA, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025/06-17-02, passed 6-17-2025
State legislation reviewed through 2022 Illinois Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 6
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code; acceptance
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.18   Village Clerk’s certificate
   
10.19   Code alteration
   
10.20   Jurisdiction
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE; ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the adoption by the village’s Board of Trustees, this
village code is hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the
official “Code of Ordinances of the Village of Oreana”.
      (2)   The revised code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the
“village code”, and it is hereby published by authority of the Village Board
and shall be kept up-to-date as provided in §
10.09 of this chapter under the direction of the Village Attorney, acting for
said Village Board.
      (3)   Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall
be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate
chapter and section heading and to the general penalty clause relating thereto,
as well as to the section itself when reference is made to this village code by
title in any legal document.
(2007 Code, § 1-1-1)
   (B)   The village code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter
be received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of the state as the ordinances of the village of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.13(A) of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 1-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-3 and 5/1-2-6
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons, but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   CODE or THIS CODE. The Code of Ordinances of the Village of Oreana, 2018.
   COUNTY. Macon County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Macon County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
village”.
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   FEE or FEES. A sum of money charged by the village for carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR. May 1 of each year, ending on April 30 of the following year.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2[5])
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of the state, or of any town or county of the state, and all
bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act
or mission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LEGAL HOLIDAY. The holidays as authorized and recognized by the Village
Board in an employee agreement or as specified in state or federal law.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of Oreana.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT and NEGLIGENTLY. Import a want of such
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act of omission as a
prudent human ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
   NUISANCE. Any thing offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village or any act or thing repugnant to or creating a
hazard to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village
officer or employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed
by the words “of the village” and shall be taken to mean the officer or
employee of the village having the title mentioned or performing the duties
indicated. No provision of this code designating the duties of any OFFICER or
EMPLOYEE shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such duty,
unless when intention of the Village Board to impose such a fine or penalty on
such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty.
   OFFICIAL TIME. Central Standard Time shall be the official time for the
transaction of village business, except during applicable Daylight Saving Time
set by national or state standards when the OFFICIAL TIME shall be advanced one
hour. All clocks and other timepieces in or upon public buildings or other
premises maintained by or at the expense of the village shall be set and run at
the OFFICIAL TIME prescribed hereby.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Oreana. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in the
employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof or
any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   RETAILER. Relating to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in
small quantities direct to the consumer.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Art. VII of the Constitution of
the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Art. VII of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   VILLAGE. The Village of Oreana.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. Understood to relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
   WILLFULLY.
      (1)   When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to.
      (2)   It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but, when the written signature of any person
is required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law, it shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)    An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
(2007 Code, § 1-1-16)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   (1)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the
last day is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday, as defined or fixed in any
statute now or hereafter in force in the state, and then it shall also be
excluded.
      (2)   If the day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a
holiday or a Saturday or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be
excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may, by law, as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   Any ordinance amending the village code shall set forth the title, chapter
and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this village code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be forwarded to a codifier and
the ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place in
each copy of this village code. Each such replacement page shall be properly
identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the village code on
an annual basis.
(2007 Code, § 1-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-3
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application and, to this end, the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   Repeal of general ordinances. All general ordinances of the village
passed prior to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as
are referred to herein as being still in force or are, by necessary
implication, herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving clauses
contained herein), from which are excluded the following ordinances, which are
not hereby repealed:
      (1)   Tax levy ordinances;
      (2)   Appropriation ordinances;
      (3)   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
      (4)   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations;
      (5)   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
      (6)   Salary ordinances;
      (7)   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places;
      (8)   Improvement ordinances;
      (9)   Bond ordinances;
      (10)   Ordinances relating to elections;
      (11)   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate
by or from the village;
      (12)   Zoning ordinance; and
      (13)   All special ordinances.
(2007 Code, § 1-1-8)
   (B)   Public utility ordinances. No ordinance relating to railroads or
railroad crossings with streets and other public ways or relating to the
conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall be repealed by
virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of division (A) above,
excepting as this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or
ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(2007 Code, § 1-1-9)
   (C)   Court proceedings.
      (1)   (a)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any claim arising under the former ordinance or in anyway whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable.
         (b)   If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the
party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
      (2)   This division (C) shall extend to all repeals, either by express
words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new
provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
      (3)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed as abating any action
now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code.
(2007 Code, § 1-1-10)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances), as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.18 VILLAGE CLERK’S CERTIFICATE.
   VILLAGE CLERK’S CERTIFICATE
   STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
   COUNTY OF MACON      ) SS.      VILLAGE CLERK’S OFFICE
   VILLAGE OF OREANA      )
      I, Anne Kirby, Village Clerk of the Village of Oreana, Illinois, do
hereby certify that the following Revised Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Oreana, Illinois of 2001, published by authority of the Village Board of
Trustees were duly passed by the Village Board of Trustees of the Village of
Oreana, Illinois, approved by the Mayor and published in book form according to
law on this date, and that these ordinances are true and perfect copies of the
ordinances, as passed, approved and now of record and on file in my office as
provided by law.
      In witness whereof, I have set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of
the Village of Oreana, Illinois, this 11th day of Match, 2001.
                        ___________________________
                        AARON KEATHLEY, MAYOR
   ______________________
   ANNE KIRBY, CLERK
 
   (SEAL)
(2007 Code, § 1-1-12)
§ 10.19 CODE ALTERATION.
   (A)   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace
or deface in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Village Board. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   Any person having in his or her custody an official copy of this code
shall make every effort to maintain said code in an up-to-date and efficient
manner. He or she shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered to him or her or made available to him or her
through the office of the Village Clerk. Said code books, while in actual
possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the
property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the Clerk upon
termination of office or separation of duties.
(2007 Code, § 1-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.20 JURISDICTION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, this code applies to acts performed within
the corporate limits of the village. Provisions of this code also apply to acts
performed outside the corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed bylaw,
where the law confers power on the village to regulate such particular acts
outside the corporate limits.
(2007 Code, § 1-1-5)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code
shall be fined not less than $75, nor more than $750, for any one offense.
      (2)   Any minor or person designated a juvenile by the state convicted of
a violation of any section of this code shall be fined not less than $75, nor
more than $750, for any one offense, but may not be confined, except by
provisions of the Juvenile Court Act of the state.
      (3)   Whoever commits an offense against the village or aids, abets,
counsels, commands, induces or procures its commission is punishable as a
principal.
      (4)   Whoever willfully causes an act to be done which, if directly
performed by him, her or another would be an offense against the village, is
punishable as a principal.
      (5)   A penalty imposed for the violation of any section of this code may
include, or consist of, a requirement that the defendant perform some
reasonable public service work such as, but not limited to, the picking up of
litter in public parks or along public highways or the maintenance of public
facilities.
(2007 Code, § 1-1-20)
   (B)   Service by certified mail. In all actions for violation of any
municipal ordinance where the fine would not be in excess of $750 and no jail
term could be imposed, service of summons may be made by the Municipal Clerk by
certified mail, return receipt requested, whether service is to be within or
without the state.
(2007 Code, § 1-1-21)
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   The penalty provided herein shall be applicable to every section of
this village code, the same as though it were a part of each and every separate
section. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty
or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this village code.
      (2)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is
created by different clauses or sections of this village code, the prosecuting
officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall
be had against the same person for the same offense; provided that, the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty
so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
      (3)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this village code, and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this code shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or
continues.
(2007 Code, § 1-1-22)
   (D)   Liability of officers. The failure of any officer or employee to
perform any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject such officer
or employee to the penalty imposed for violation of this code, unless a penalty
is specifically provided for.
(2007 Code, § 1-1-23)
   (E)   License. When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of
this code, any license previously issued to him or her by the village may be
revoked by the court or by the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 1-1-24)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 and 5/1-2-9.1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   FREEDOM OF INFORMATION PROCEDURES
      
36.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
37.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Election
   
30.02   Mayor Pro-tem; temporary Chairperson
   
30.03   Vacancy
   
30.04   Chief executive officer
   
30.05   Mayor’s signature
   
30.06   Officers; appointment; supervising conduct; removal; designation of
duties
   
30.07   Formal occasions
   
30.08   General duties
   
30.09   Business License Commissioner
   
30.10   Local Liquor Commissioner
   
30.11   Health Commissioner
   
30.12   Deciding vote
Board of Trustees
   
30.25   Composition and general powers
   
30.26   Regular meetings
   
30.27   Special meetings
   
30.28   Vacancy
   
30.29   Committees
   
30.30   Special committees
   
30.31   Quorum
   
30.32   Members; non-attendance at meetings
   
30.33   Public comment
   
30.34   Board rules
   
30.35   Agenda
Ordinances
   
30.50   Introduction; Village Attorney preparation; vote required
   
30.51   Reconsideration; passing over veto
   
30.52   No vote to be reconsidered at special meetings
MAYOR
§ 30.01 ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until a
successor is elected and has qualified.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-40)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5 and 5/3.1-25-15
§ 30.02 MAYOR PRO-TEM; TEMPORARY CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   If the Mayor is temporarily absent because of an incapacity to perform
official duties, but the incapacity does not create a vacancy in the office,
the corporate authorities shall elect one of their members to act as Mayor Pro-
tem. The Mayor Pro-tem, during this absence or disability, shall perform the
duties and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor, but shall not be
entitled to vote both as Mayor Pro-tem and as a Trustee.
   (B)   In the absence of the Mayor, or Mayor Pro-tem, the corporate
authorities may elect one of their members to act as a temporary Chairperson.
The temporary Chairperson shall have only the powers of a presiding officer and
a right to vote only in the capacity as Trustee on any ordinance, resolution or
motion.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-41)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35
§ 30.03 VACANCY.
   (A)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor and there remains an
unexpired portion of the term of at least 28 months and the vacancy occurs at
least 130 days before the general municipal election next scheduled under the
general election law, the vacancy shall be filled at that general municipal
election.
   (B)   The Village Board shall elect one of its members as “Acting Mayor” who
shall perform the duties and shall possess all the rights and powers of the
Mayor until a successor to fill the vacancy has been elected and has qualified.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-42)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50
§ 30.04 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the village and shall see
to the enforcement of all laws and ordinances. The Mayor shall preside over the
meetings of the Board of Trustees and perform such duties as may be required of
him or her by statute or law. The Mayor shall have supervision over all of the
executive officers and village employees; provided, however, his or her control
is subject to the power of the Village Board to prescribe the duties of various
officers and employees. The Mayor shall have the power and authority at any
reasonable time to inspect all books, papers and records pertaining to village
affairs and kept by any officer of the village.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-43)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10 and 3.1-35-20
§ 30.05 MAYOR’S SIGNATURE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall sign all village warrants, commissions, permits and
licenses granted by authority of the Village Board, except as otherwise
provided, and such other acts and deeds as law or ordinance may require his or
her official signature.
   (B)   The Mayor may designate another to affix his or her signature to any
written instrument that requires the Mayor’s signature. The Mayor must send
written nonce of this designation to the Village Board stating:
      (1)   The name of the person whom he or she has selected; and
      (2)   What instrument the person will have authority to sign.
   (C)   A written signature of the Mayor executed by the person so designated
with the signature underneath the signature of the person so designated shall
be attached to the notice. The notice with the signature attached shall be
recorded in the journal of the Village Board and then filed with the Village
Clerk. When the signature of the Mayor is placed on a written instrument at the
direction of the Mayor in the specified manner, the instrument, in all
respects, shall be as binding on the village as if signed by the Mayor in
person.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-45)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30
§ 30.06 OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT; SUPERVISING CONDUCT; REMOVAL; DESIGNATION OF
DUTIES.
   (A)   Appointment of officers.
      (1)   Appointed. At the first annual meeting in May, the Mayor shall
appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Village Board, all officers
of the village whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for, and
said officers shall hold their offices for the ensuing month or year, and until
their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Any vacancy occurring
in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner. The Mayor shall
issue a commission or certificate of appointment to all persons appointed to
office in the municipality.
      (2)   Filling vacancies. The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice
and consent of the Village Board, all officers of the village whose appointment
will not otherwise be provided for by law; and whenever a vacancy shall occur
in any office, which by law or ordinance the Mayor is empowered and required to
fill, the Mayor shall, at the next regular meeting of the Village Board,
communicate to it the name of the appointee to such office and pending the
concurrence of the Village Board in such appointment, the Mayor may designate
some suitable person to discharge the functions of such office.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-46)
   (B)   Supervise conduct of officers: removal of officers. The Mayor shall
supervise the conduct of all officers of the village and see that they
faithfully and efficiently discharge the dudes of their respective offices.
Except where otherwise provided by statute, the Mayor may remove any officer
appointed by the Mayor under this subchapter, on any written charge, whenever
the Mayor is of the opinion that the interests of the municipality demand
removal. The official may request a hearing before the Village Board to present
his or her side of the case. The Mayor shall report the reasons for the removal
to the corporate authorities at a meeting to be held not less than five days,
nor more than ten days, after the removal. If the Mayor fails or refuses to
report to the corporate authorities the reasons for the removal or, if the
corporate authorities by a two-thirds vote of all members authorized by law to
be elected disapprove of the removal, the officer thereupon shall be restored
to the office from which the officer was removed. The vote shall be by yeas and
nays, which shall be entered upon the journal of the corporate authorities.
Upon restoration, the officer shall give a new bond and take a new oath of
office. No officer shall be removed a second time for the same offense.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-47)
   (C)   Designation of officers’ duties. Whenever there is a dispute as to the
respective duties or powers of any appointed officer of the village, this
dispute shall be settled by the Mayor, after consultation with the Village
Attorney, and the Mayor shall have the power to delegate to any appointive
officer, any duty which is to be performed when no specific officer has been
directed to perform that duty.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-48)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 105/2 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5 and 5/3.1-35-10
§ 30.07 FORMAL OCCASIONS.
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the village on formal occasions and
receptions, but in the absence or inability to attend any such function, the
Mayor may select any other village officer to so act.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-49)
§ 30.08 GENERAL DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall perform all the duties which are prescribed by law and
shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
   (B)   The Mayor, from time to time, may and annually shall give the Village
Board information relative to the affairs of the village, and may recommend for
its consideration such measures as he or she believes expedient.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-50)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5
§ 30.09 BUSINESS LICENSE COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as License Commissioner to issue and revoke
any and all business licenses as prescribed by law, with the advice and consent
of the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-51)
§ 30.10 LOCAL LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as Local Liquor Commissioner with all the
powers to license and/or revoke any village liquor license according to state
and village laws.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-52)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-2
§ 30.11 HEALTH COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby declared to be Health Commissioner with all powers to
abate and remove all nuisances or health hazards within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the village authority as prescribed by law.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-53)
§ 30.12 DECIDING VOTE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Village Board. The
Mayor may, but is not required to vote, on any ordinance, resolution or motion,
coming before the Board, except the following instances when the Mayor must
vote:
      (1)   Where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie;
      (2)   Where one-half of the Trustees elected have voted in favor of an
ordinance, resolution or motion, even though there is no tie;
      (3)   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by state statutes to adopt an ordinance, resolution or motion; or
      (4)   Where the ordinance, resolution or motion will have the effect of
imposing a liability on the village or it expends or appropriates village
funds.
   (B)   In each instance specified, the Mayor shall vote. Nothing in this
section shall deprive an Acting Mayor or Mayor Pro-tem from voting in his or
her capacity as Trustee, but he or she shall not be entitled to another vote in
his or her capacity as Acting Mayor or Mayor Pro-tem.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-54)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.25 COMPOSITION AND GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The Village Board shall consist of six Trustees, elected in conformity
with this code and state laws governing elections in villages, and shall have
such powers as are granted by 65 ILCS, as amended.
   (B)   The term of office shall be for four years or until their successors
are elected and have qualified.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5 and 5/3.1-10-50(D)
§ 30.26 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular stated meetings of the Village Board shall be held in the
Village Hall building on the third Tuesday of each month at 6:00 p.m. unless
another time has been fixed by the Board and appropriate notice thereof given.
When the meeting date falls upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on
the following day at the same hour and place, unless otherwise designated.
Adjourned and reconvened meetings may be held at such times as may be
determined by the Trustees.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq. and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25
§ 30.27 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Village Board may be called by the Mayor or any
three Trustees by giving at least 48 hours’ notice thereof by delivering to
them personally written or printed notices of the time of such meeting at the
residences of the Trustees. Such notices shall be served by mail, by the Chief
of Police or his or her designated representative. Said notices shall specify
the purpose of said special meeting and the business to be taken up at that
time and place. Such notice shall be posted at the Village Hall and shall be
provided to any local newspaper of general circulation or any local radio or
television station that has filed an annual request for such notice. Said
notice shall be provided to such news media in the same manner as said notice
is given to the Mayor and members of the Village Board; provided, such news
media has given the village an address within the village at which such notice
may be given.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-3) (Ord. 04-15, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/2.02 and 120/2.03 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25
§ 30.28 VACANCY.
   When a vacancy occurs in the office of Trustee, if more than 28 months
remain in the term and the vacancy occurs not less than 130 days before the
general municipal election, next scheduled under the general election law, the
office shall be filled for the remainder of the term at that general municipal
election. During the period from the time that the vacancy occurs until the
next election of Trustees, the Mayor shall appoint a qualified person to the
office subject to the advice and consent of the Village Board. An appointment
by the Mayor or President of acting Mayor or acting President, as the case may
be, to fill a vacancy in the Office of Trustee must be made within 60 days
after the vacancy occurs. Once the appointment of the qualified person has been
forwarded to the corporate authorities, the corporate authorities shall act
upon the appointment within 30 days.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(B)
§ 30.29 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following standing committees of the Village Board are hereby
established, to-wit:
      (1)   Park;
      (2)   Street; and
      (3)   Water.
   (B)   The committees shall be appointed annually by the Mayor. In addition,
the Mayor shall appoint the Chairperson of each committee.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be ex-officio Chairperson of each and every standing
committee.
   (D)   As provided by law, any report of a committee of the Board shall be
deferred for final action thereon to the next regular meeting of the same after
the report is made, upon the request of any two Trustees present.
   (E)   Each standing committee of the Village Board shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the department of municipal government with
which it is connected; shall ascertain the condition and needs of said
department; shall, from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and Village
Board so that a full understanding thereof may be had and, generally, shall do
all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the Department.
   (F)   All committee meetings are subject to the Open Meeting Act
requirements and minutes shall be taken.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/1 and 120/2.06 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-35
§ 30.30 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   Special committees may be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees, as may be needed from time to time.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-6)
§ 30.31 QUORUM.
   At all meetings of the Village Board, a majority of the corporate
authorities shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and, if
no such quorum attends such meeting of the Board, the Trustees may adjourn from
day to day until a quorum is present; and shall have power to compel the
attendance of absent members, except when such members are physically unable to
attend such meetings.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-7)
Editor’s note:
   When the Board has a Mayor and six Trustees, a quorum is four, which may
consist of the Mayor and three Trustees or four Trustees
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20
§ 30.32 MEMBERS; NON-ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   Any member of the Village Board who shall neglect or refuse to attend
at least one regular and/or special Village Board meetings per month without
good and sufficient reason to be passed upon by the Board shall not receive
compensation for that meeting.
   (B)   All members shall be allowed two absences in each fiscal year for
which compensation shall be paid.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20
§ 30.33 PUBLIC COMMENT.
   Members of the general public may address the Mayor and Board of Trustees,
or any other body convened in a public meeting for the purpose of conducting
municipal business, at that point on the agenda designated “public comment”. A
member of the general public may speak for a period of up to three minutes,
which may be extended for additional successive three minute periods at the
discretion of the presiding officer. The body need not respond to questions
posed by members of the general public, but may do so at the discretion of the
presiding officer. Members of the general public whose comments are disruptive
of the proceedings may be asked to leave peaceably or may otherwise be escorted
from the premises.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-9) (Ord. 04-13, passed - -; Ord. passed 8-16-2011; Ord. 2012/
01/17-1, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 30.34 BOARD RULES.
   The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations
and meetings of the Village Board.
   (A)   Order of business.
      (1)   The order of business shall be as follows:
         (a)   Call to order by presiding officer;
         (b)   Roll call;
         (c)   The reading of the journal of the proceedings of the last
preceding meeting or meetings, and correction and approval of the same, unless
dispensed with by the Board of Trustees and correction of the journal of the
proceedings of previous meetings;
         (d)   Reports and communications from the Mayor and other village
officers;
         (e)   Visitors;
         (f)   Reports of standing committees;
         (g)   Reports of special committees;
         (h)   Presentation of communications, petitions, resolutions, orders
and ordinances by the Board of Trustees;
         (i)   Unfinished business; and
         (j)   Miscellaneous business.
      (2)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
by the Chair without debate, subject to appeal.
   (B)   Duties of presiding officer. The presiding officer shall preserve
order and decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other
Trustees, and shall decide all question of order, subject to appeal.
   (C)   Duties of members. While the presiding officer is putting the
question, no member shall walk across or out of the Board Chamber. Every
member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or seconding the same
shall not proceed with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the
Chair. He or she shall confine himself or herself to the question under debate,
avoiding personalities and refraining from impugning the motives of any other
Trustee’s argument or vote.
   (D)   Visitors. No person other than a member of the Board of Trustees shall
address that body on the same question unless such person has been recognized
by the presiding officer.
   (E)   Presentation of new business. When a Trustee wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance or other original matter,
the member shall read such matter when reached in its proper order.
   (F)   Debate.
      (1)   No Trustee shall speak more than once on the same question, except
by consent of the presiding officer or unless three-fourths of the corporate
authorities agree that one’s right to debate should be limited to speak only
once and then not until every other Trustee desiring to speak shall have had an
opportunity to do so; provided, however, that, the proponent of the matter
under consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right to open and close
debate.
      (2)   No Trustee shall speak longer than ten minutes at any one time,
except by consent of the Village Board; and in closing debate on any question
as above provided, the speaker shall be limited to five minutes, except by
special consent of the Board.
      (3)   The Village Board, by motion, may limit debate. The presiding
officer shall have the right to participate in debate.
      (4)   While a member is speaking, no Trustee shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   Call of trustees to order. A Trustee, when called to order by the
Chair, shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his or her seat and the
order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to
the right to appeal.
   (H)   Appeals from decision of the Chair. Any Trustee may appeal to the
Board from a ruling of the Chair, and if the appeal is seconded, the Trustee
making the appeal may briefly state his or her reason for the same, and the
Chair may briefly explain his or her ruling, but there shall be no debate on
the appeal and no other person shall participate in the discussion. The
presiding officer shall have the right to participate in debate. The Chair
shall then put the question, “Shall the decision of the Chair be sustained?”.
If a majority of the Trustees present vote “no”, the decision of the Chair
shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   Question of personal privilege. The right of a member to address the
Board on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his or her integrity, character or motives are assailed, questioned or
impugned.
   (J)   Voting. Every other member who shall be present when a question is
stated from the Chair shall vote thereon, unless he or she is personally
interested in the question, in which case, he or she shall take whatever steps
are necessary to ensure that his vote is not taken.
   (K)   Special order of business. Any matter before the Village Board may be
set down as a special order of business at a time certain if two-thirds of the
Trustees present vote in the affirmative, but not otherwise.
   (L)   Seconding of motions required; written motions. No motion shall be put
or debated in the meeting or in committee unless it be seconded. When a motion
is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate, and
every motion in the Board, except motions of procedure, shall be reduced to
writing if required by a member, and the proposer of the motion shall be
entitled to the floor.
   (M)   Division of questions. If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the Trustees, by a majority vote of the Trustees
present may divide such question.
   (N)   Record of motions. In all cases where a resolution or motion is
entered in the journal, the name of the Trustee moving the same shall be
entered also.
   (O)   Announcement and changes of vote. The result of all votes by yeas and
nays shall not be announced by the Clerk, but shall be handed by him or her to
the Chairperson for announcement, and no vote shall be changed after the tally
list has passed from the hands of the Clerk.
   (P)   Precedence of motions.
      (1)   When a question is under debate, the following motions shall be in
order and shall have precedence over each other in order, as listed:
         (a)   To adjourn to a day certain;
         (b)   To adjourn;
         (c)   To take a recess;
         (d)   To lay on the table;
         (e)   The previous question;
         (f)   To refer;
         (g)   To amend;
         (h)   To defer or postpone to a time certain;
         (i)   To defer or postpone (without reference to time); and
         (j)   To defer or postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   The items listed in divisions (P)(1)(b), (P)(1)(d) and (P)(1)(e)
above are to be decided without debate.
   (Q)   Motions to adjourn. A motion to adjourn the village shall always be in
order, except:
      (1)   When a Trustee is in possession of the floor;
      (2)   While the yeas and nays are being called;
      (3)   When the members are voting;
      (4)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and/or
      (5)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
         (a)   A motion simply to adjourn shall not be subject to amendment or
debate, but a motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be.
         (b)   The Village Board may, at any time, adjourn over one or more
regular meetings on a vote of a majority of all the Trustees authorized by law
to be elected.
   (R)   Previous question.
      (1)   When the previous question is moved on the main question and
seconded, it shall be put on this form: “Shall the main question now be put?”.
      (2)   If such motion be carried, all further amendments and all further
motions and debate shall be excluded, and the question put without delay upon
the pending amendment in proper order and then upon the main question.
   (S)   Motions to lay on the table and to take from the table.
      (1)   A motion simply to lay the question on the table shall not be
debatable, but a motion to lay on the table and publish, or with any other
condition shall be subject to amendment and debate.
      (2)   A motion to take any motion or other proposition from the table may
be proposed at the same meeting at which such motion or proposition was laid
upon the table; provided, two-thirds of the Trustees vote therefor.
      (3)   A motion to lay any particular motion or proposition on the table
shall apply to that motion or proposition only. An amendment to the main
question or other pending question may be laid on the table and neither the
main question, nor such other pending question shall be affected thereby.
   (T)   Indefinite postponement; motion to defer or postpone without any
reference to time.
      (1)   When consideration of a motion or other proposition is postponed
indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the same meeting.
      (2)   A motion to postpone indefinitely shall not open the main question
to debate.
      (3)   A motion to defer or postpone without any reference to time shall
not be construed as a motion to postpone indefinitely, but shall be considered
to be of the same general nature and to possess the same general attributes so
far as applicable under these rules, as a motion to postpone indefinitely or to
a time certain.
   (U)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take
precedence over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   (V)   Motion to amend.
      (1)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend
an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
      (2)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order,
but an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
      (3)   On an amendment to “strike out and insert”, the paragraph to be
amended shall first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be
stricken out, then those to be inserted and, finally, the paragraph as it will
stand if so amended shall be read.
      (4)   An amendment to the main question or other pending questions may be
referred to a committee and neither the main question nor such other pending
question shall be affected thereby.
   (W)   Filling of blanks. When a blank is to be filled and different sums or
times proposed, the question shall be taken first on the least sum or the
longest time.
   (X)   Motion to substitute. A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment or such proposition may be entertained
notwithstanding that at such time, further amendment is admissible, and, if
accepted by the Trustees, by a vote shall entirely supersede such original
proposition or amendment, as the case may be, and cut off all amendments
appertaining thereto.
   (Y)   Reconsideration.
      (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration having been once made and decided in the negative shall not be
renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by Trustees who
voted on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless
otherwise provided bylaw; provided, however, that, where a motion has received
a majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of such motion, then in such case, a motion to reconsider
may be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such
question to be reconsidered.
   (Z)   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order Revised. The rules of
parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition of Robert’s
Rules of Order Revised shall govern the Board in all cases to which they are
applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the special rules of the
Board.
   (AA)   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules. These rules may be
temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds of the corporate authorities
entitled bylaw to be elected and shall not be repealed, altered or amended,
unless by concurrence of two-thirds of all the corporate authorities entitled
by law to be elected.
   (BB)   Censure of Trustees; expulsion of Trustees. Any Trustee acting or
appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner, or who uses opprobrious, obscene and
insulting language to or about any member of the Board, or who does not obey
the order of the Chair, shall be, on motion, censured by a majority vote of the
members present, or expelled by a two-thirds vote of all Trustees elected.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15
§ 30.35 AGENDA.
   An itemized agenda, along with all necessary supporting documentation shall
be furnished to each member of the Village Board no later than the close of
business on the day preceding the regular Village Board meeting. In the case of
matters of emergency which could not have been reasonably foreseen in
sufficient time to comply with this section, a revised agenda shall be
furnished to each member of the Village Board prior to the opening of the Board
meeting.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/2.02
ORDINANCES
§ 30.50 INTRODUCTION; VILLAGE ATTORNEY PREPARATION; VOTE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Attorney. It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to prepare such
ordinances as may be required by the Village Board.
   (B)   Introduced. When a proposed ordinance is introduced, it shall be read
one time by title only and referred to the proper committee unless the Board of
Trustees shall otherwise specifically direct.
   (C)   Vote required; yeas and nays record. The passage of all ordinances for
whatever purpose, and of any resolution or motion to create any liability
against a village or for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, shall
require the concurrence of a majority of all members then holding office on the
Village Board, including the Mayor, unless otherwise expressly provided by the
code or any other act governing the passage of any ordinance, resolution or
motion; provided that, where the Board consists of an odd number of Trustees,
the vote of the majority of the trustees shall be sufficient to pass an
ordinance. The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage of
the designated ordinances, resolutions or motions and recorded in the journal
of the Village Board. In addition, the corporate authorities at any meeting may
by unanimous consent to take a single vote by yeas or nays on the several
questions of the passage on any two or more of the designated ordinances,
orders, resolutions or motions placed together for voting purposes in a single
group. The single vote shall be entered separately in the journal under the
designation “omnibus vote”, and in such event the Clerk may enter the words
“omnibus vote” or “consent agenda” in the journal in each case in lieu of
entering names of the members of Village Board voting “yea” and of those voting
“nay” on the passage of each of the designated ordinances, orders, resolutions
and motions included in such omnibus group or consent agenda. The taking of
such single or omnibus vote and such entries of the words “omnibus vote” or
“consent agenda” in the journal shall be a sufficient compliance with the
requirements of this section to all intents and purposes and with like effect
as if the vote in each case had been separately by yeas and nays on the
question of the passage of each ordinance, order, resolution and motion
included in such omnibus group, and separately recorded in the journal.
Likewise, the yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage of
any other resolution or motion at the request of any trustee and shall be
recorded in the journal.
   (D)   Ordinances; approval; veto.
      (1)   All resolutions and motions as follows, and all ordinances passed
by the Village Board, shall be deposited with the Village Clerk:
         (a)   Which create any liability against the village;
         (b)   That provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money;
or
         (c)   To sell any village property
      (2)   If the Mayor approves such resolution or motion, the Mayor shall
sign them. Those ordinances, resolutions and motions which the Mayor
disapproves shall be returned to the Village Board, with his or her written
objections, at the next regular meeting of the Village Board occurring not less
than five days after their passage. The Mayor may disapprove of any one or more
sums appropriated in any ordinance, resolution or motion making an
appropriation and, if so, the remainder shall be effective. However, the Mayor
may disapprove entirely of an ordinance, resolution or motion making an
appropriation. If the Mayor fails to return any ordinance or any specified
resolution or motion with his or her written objections, within the designated
time, it shall become effective despite the absence of the Mayor’s signature.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40 and 5/3.1-40-45
§ 30.51 RECONSIDERATION; PASSING OVER VETO.
   (A)   Every resolution and motion, specified in §
30.50 of this chapter, and every ordinance that is returned to the Village
Board by the Mayor shall be reconsidered by the Village Board at the next
regular meeting.
   (B)   If, after reconsideration, two-thirds of all the Trustees then holding
office on the Village Board shall agree at that regular meeting to pass an
ordinance, resolution or motion, notwithstanding the Mayor’s refusal to approve
it, then it shall be effective.
   (C)   The vote on the question of passage over the Mayor’s veto shall be by
yeas and nays, and shall be recorded in the journal.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50
§ 30.52 NO VOTE TO BE RECONSIDERED AT SPECIAL MEETING.
   No vote of the Village Board shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a special
meeting unless there are present at the special meeting at least as many
Village Trustees as were present when the vote was taken.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Plan Commission
   
31.01   Establishment
   
31.02   Membership
   
31.03   Term of office
   
31.04   Procedure
   
31.05   Powers and duties
   
31.06   Land subdivision or resubdivision; official map
   
31.07   Improvements
   
31.08   Further purposes
   
31.09   Expenditures
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Plan Commission is hereby created under authority of 65 ILCS 5/11-12-
4 through 5/11-12-12.
(2007 Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 31.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Plan Commission shall consist of five members; said members to be
residents of the village, appointed by the Mayor and the Village Board, on the
basis of their particular fitness for their duty on the Plan Commission and
subject to the approval of the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 31.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The members shall serve for a period of five years. Vacancies shall be
filled by appointment for the unexpired term only. All members of the
Commission shall serve without compensation; except that, if the Board deems it
advisable, they may receive such compensation as provided by the Village Board
by appropriation.
(2007 Code, § 4-1-3)
§ 31.04 PROCEDURE.
   The Plan Commission shall elect such officers as it may deem necessary and
adopt rules and regulations of organization and procedure consistent with the
Village Code and state law. The Commission shall keep written records of its
proceedings. It shall be open at all times for and to the inspection of the
public and the Commission shall file an annual report with the Mayor and
Village Board, setting forth its transactions and recommendations.
(2007 Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 31.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Plan Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board a comprehensive plan for
the present and future development or redevelopment of the village and
contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond
the corporate limits of the village and not included in any other municipality.
Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional
parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan or
part thereof of the village. Such plan shall be advisory, except as to such
part thereof as has been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the Village
Board;
   (B)   All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption with
the county’s Recorder of Deeds, and filing of the plan and ordinances with the
Village Clerk shall be complied with as provided for bylaw. To provide for the
health, safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants of the village and
contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall establish reasonable standards
of design for subdivisions and for re-subdivisions of unimproved land and of
areas subject to redevelopment in respect to public improvements, as herein
defined, and shall establish reasonable requirements governing the location,
width, course and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for
public service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage
collection and treatment. The requirements specified herein shall become
regulatory only when adopted bylaw;
   (C)   To designate land suitable for annexation to the village and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation;
   (D)   To recommend to the Village Board, from time to time, such changes in
the comprehensive plan or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary;
   (E)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board, from time to time,
plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance to the
official comprehensive plan;
   (F)   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan or parts
thereof, to further the making of such improvements and generally, to promote
the realization of the official comprehensive plan;
   (G)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
   (H)   To cooperate with municipal or regional plan commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local plan program and to assure harmonious
and integrated planning for the area subject to approval of the Village Board;
and
   (I)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of an act of the General Assembly of the state, as may be conferred
by the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 4-1-5)
§ 31.06 LAND SUBDIVISION OR RESUBDIVISION; OFFICIAL MAP.
   At any time or times before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which may consist of the whole area included within
the official comprehensive plan or one or more geographical or functional parts
and may include all or any part of the contiguous unincorporated area within
one and one-half miles from the corporate limits of the village. All
requirements for public hearing, filing notice of adoption with the county’s
Recorder of Deeds and filing of the plan and ordinances, including the official
map with the Clerk shall be complied with as provided for bylaw. No map or plat
of any subdivision or re-subdivision presented for record affecting land within
the corporate limits of the village or within contiguous territory which is not
more than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits shall be entitled
to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision shown thereon provides for
standards of design and standards governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways
for public service facilities, street lights, public grounds, size of lots to
be used for residential purposes and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage
collection and treatment in conformity with the applicable requirements of the
code, including the official map.
(2007 Code, § 4-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12-12
§ 31.07 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall furnish the Plan Commission for its
consideration, a copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public
improvements of any nature.
   (B)   The Plan Commission may report in relation thereto, if it deems a
report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 4-1-7)
§ 31.08 FURTHER PURPOSES.
   The Commission shall recommend the boundaries of districts for land use and
shall recommend regulations to the corporate authorities for the following:
   (A)   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter to be
erected;
   (B)   To establish, regulate and limit the building or setback lines on or
along the street, traffic way, drive, parkway or storm or flood water runoff
channel or basin;
   (C)   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces, within and surrounding such
buildings;
   (D)   To classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified industrial,
business, residential and other uses;
   (E)   To divide the entire municipality into districts of such number,
shape, area and of such different classes (according to use of land and
buildings, height and bulk of buildings, intensity of the use of lot area, area
of open spaces or other classification), as may be deemed best suited to carry
out the purpose of this section;
   (F)   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform;
   (G)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts; and
   (H)   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed under this section.
(2007 Code, § 4-1-8)
§ 31.09 EXPENDITURES.
   Expenditures of the Commission shall be at the discretion of the Village
Board and, if the Commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical advice
or services, it shall be done upon authority of the Village Board and
appropriations by the Village Board therefor.
(2007 Code, § 4-1-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12
CHAPTER 32: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Salaries
   
32.002   Elections
   
32.003   Appointment of elected officials
   
32.004   Regulations, qualifications and the like
   
32.005   Resignation of appointed officials
   
32.006   Qualifications; elective office
   
32.007   Bonds of village officers
   
32.008   Liability insurance
   
32.009   Claims
   
32.010   Municipal year
   
32.011   Expenses; reimbursement
   
32.012   Official records
   
32.013   Federal Old Age and Survivor’s Insurance System
   
32.014   Municipal Retirement Fund
   
32.015   Certificates of insurance
   
32.016   Employee removal
Specific Offices
   
32.030   Village Attorney
   
32.031   Village Engineer
   
32.032   Superintendent of Water
   
32.033   Superintendent of Streets and Parks
   
32.034   Zoning Administrator
Village Clerk
   
32.045   Election or appointment
   
32.046   Vacancy
   
32.047   Publication of ordinances; Board minutes; records
   
32.048   Delivery of papers to officers
   
32.049   Preparation of documents, commissions and licenses
   
32.050   Licenses; report and delivery
   
32.051   Administration of oaths
   
32.052   Outstanding bonds
   
32.053   Reports
   
32.054   Successor
   
32.055   Payments
   
32.056   Notification to persons appointed to office
   
32.057   Other duties
   
32.058   Deputy Clerk
   
32.059   Corporate seal
Village Treasurer
   
32.070   Office established
   
32.071   Appointment; vacancy
   
32.072   Money; warrants; accounts; payments
   
32.073   Warrant register
   
32.074   Personal use of funds
   
32.075   Bond
   
32.076   Special assessments
   
32.077   Bookkeeping
   
32.078   Statements
   
32.079   Reporting delinquent officers
   
32.080   Year-end report
   
32.081   Appropriation submission
   
32.082   Deposit of funds
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 SALARIES.
   (A)   The following salaries are hereby established for elected village
officials.
      (1)   Mayor. The Mayor shall receive a salary of $600 per month.
      (2)   Trustees. The Village Trustees shall receive $90 per regular,
emergency or special meeting. The meeting at which a Trustee leaves office or
takes office shall be compensated. There is no compensation for committee
meetings.
      (3)   Village Clerk. The Village Clerk shall be paid a salary of $250 per
month, plus hourly compensation in the amount of $16 per hour for
administrative work in the village office outside the official duties of the
Village Clerk such as filing, utility billing and the like.
      (4)   Village Treasurer. The Village Treasurer shall be paid the sum of
$8,220 per year.
(2007 Code, § 1-3-1)
   (B)   (1)   Elected. No salary or compensation of any elected municipal
officer who is elected for a definite term of office shall be increased or
diminished during such term.
      (2)   Appointed. No salary or compensation of any appointed official who
is appointed for a definite term of office shall be decreased during such term,
but may be increased.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-27)
(Ord. 06/21/2016-2, passed 6-21-2016; Ord. 07/19/2016-1, passed 7-19-2016)
Editor’s note:
   The salary of appointed officials and employees may be established in the
appropriation ordinance or annual budget. The salary of elected officials must
be established in an ordinance other than the appropriation ordinance at least
six months prior to the general municipal election in which voting is held for
those offices.
   The salaries of elected officials who hold elective office for a definite
term shall neither be increased nor diminished during that term and shall be
fixed at least 180 days before to a general municipal election in which voting
is held for those offices.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5, 5/3.1-50-10 and 5/3.1-50-15
§ 32.002 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Election procedure. The provisions of 10 ILCS, concerning municipal
elections, shall govern the conduct of the village elections.
   (B)   Inauguration. The inauguration of newly elected village officials
shall occur at the first regular or special meeting of the Village Board in the
month of May following the general municipal election in April.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-15 and 5/3.1-10-10
§ 32.003 APPOINTMENT OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   No Trustee of the village, during the term of office for which he or
she is elected, may accept or be appointed to or hold any office appointed by
the Mayor except if such Trustee is granted a leave of absence from such office
or unless he or she first resigns from the office of Trustee, or unless the
holding of another office is authorized by law. The Trustee may, however, serve
as a volunteer firefighter and receive compensation for that service. The
Trustee may also serve as a Commissioner of the Beardstown Regional Flood
Prevention District Board. Any appointment in violation of this section is
void. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit an elected
municipal official from holding elected office in another unit of local
government as long as there is no contractual relationship between the village
and the other unit of local government. This amendatory Act of 1995 is
declarative of existing law and is not a new enactment.
   (B)   A Mayor, Trustee, Village Clerk or Village Treasurer shall not hold
any other office under the municipal government during the term of that office,
except when the officer is granted a leave of absence from that office or
except as otherwise provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50, 5/3.1-35-135, and 5/8-2-
9.1. Moreover, an officer may serve as a volunteer firefighter and receive
compensation for that service.
   (C)   Note: one member may serve on the Library Board.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 105/2, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-1515 and 75 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 32.004 REGULATIONS, QUALIFICATIONS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Effect. The provisions of this section shall apply alike to all
officers and employees of the village regardless of the time of creation of the
office or position or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee.
   (B)   Qualifications; appointive office.
      (1)   No person shall be eligible for any appointive municipal office
unless that person is a qualified elector of the municipality or otherwise
provided by law.
      (2)   The residency requirements do not apply, however, to municipal
engineers, health officers, attorneys or other officers who require technical
training or knowledge, to appointed village treasurers, or to appointed village
collectors (unless the village has designated by ordinance that the Village
Clerk shall also hold the office of collector).
   (C)   Bond. Every officer and employee shall, if required by the Village
Board upon entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such
amount and with such sureties as may be determined by the Board, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position.
   (D)   Books delivered to successor. Every officer shall, upon going out of
office, deliver to his or her successor, all books, papers, furniture and other
things appertaining to such office, and which are the property of the village.
Within five days after notification and request, any person who has been an
officer of a municipality is required to deliver to his successor in office,
all property, books and effects in his possession belonging to the
municipality, or pertaining to the office he has held. Upon his or her refusal
to do so, he or she shall be liable for all damages caused thereby and shall,
upon conviction, be penalized according to the provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. He or she shall not receive his or her final
check until his or her village code book and keys are turned over to the
Village Clerk.
   (E)   Books open to inspection. Every officer shall, at all times when
required, submit the books and papers of his or her office to the inspection of
the Mayor or any committee or member of the Board of Trustees.
   (F)   Fees; report of fees. No officer of the municipality shall be entitled
to charge or receive any fees as against the village. All officers of the
village entitled to receive fees shall keep a correct account thereof, and make
a report thereof under oath to the Village Board prior to the regular meeting
of each month. In the report, they shall specify from whom such fees were
received, for what service and when received. All fees received shall be paid
over into the Village Treasury.
   (G)   Other rules and regulations. Every officer of the village shall
perform such other duties and be subject to such other rules and regulations as
the Village Board may provide bylaw.
   (H)   Conservators of peace.
      (1)   After receiving a certificate attesting to the successful
completion of a training course administered by the state’s Law Enforcement
Training Standards Board, the Mayor, Trustees and police officers in
municipalities shall be conservators of the peace. Those persons and others
authorized by ordinance shall have power:
         (a)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace or are found violating any municipal ordinance or
any criminal law of the state;
         (b)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
         (c)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody over night
or Sunday in any safe place or until they can be brought before the proper
court; and
         (d)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace
prescribed by the corporate authorities.
      (2)   All warrants for the violation of municipal ordinances or the state
criminal law, directed to any person, may be served and executed within the
limits of a municipality by any police officer of the municipality. For that
purpose, police officers have all the common law and statutory powers of
sheriffs.
   (I)   Oath. Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
municipal officers, whether elected or appointed shall take and subscribe to
the following oath: “I,                                , do solemnly swear that
I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of
the State of Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the
office of                                   , according to the best of my
ability.” The Mayor and the Clerk shall have the power to administer this oath
or affirmation upon all lawful occasions.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-21)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6, 5/3.1-15-20, 5/3.1-15-25, 5/3.1-
10-30, 5/3.1-10-35 and 5/3.1-10-40
§ 32.005 RESIGNATION OF APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   A resignation is not effective unless it is in writing, signed by the person
holding the elective office and notarized. A resignation may specify a future
date, not later than 60 days after the date of the resignation is received by
the officer authorized to fill the vacancy, at which time it becomes operative.
The resignation may not be withdrawn after it is received by the officer
authorized to fill the vacancy. The effective date of a resignation is received
by the officer authorized to fill the vacancy. The effective date of a
resignation that has a specified future effective date is that specified future
date or the date the resignation is received by the officer authorized to fill
the vacancy, whichever date occurs later.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-22)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50
§ 32.006 QUALIFICATIONS; ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   A person is not eligible for an elective municipal office unless that
person is a qualified elector of the municipality and has resided in the
municipality at least one year next preceding the election.
   (B)   A person is not eligible for an elective municipal office if that
person is in arrears in the payment of a tax or other indebtedness due to the
municipality or has been convicted in any court located in the United States of
any infamous crime, bribery, perjury or other felony.
   (C)   A person is not eligible for the office of trustee unless that person
has resided in the municipality, as the case may be, at least one year next
preceding the election or appointment.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-23)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5
§ 32.007 BONDS OF VILLAGE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Amount. Bonds of village officers required under 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30
shall be executed in the following penal sums:
      (1)   Mayor: $3,000;
      (2)   Village Treasurer: $10,000;
      (3)   Village Clerk: $3,000; and
      (4)   Police Chief: $3,000.
   (B)   Premium payment by village. The surety bonds required by law shall be
paid by the village.
   (C)   Surety.
      (1)   The Village Board shall not receive or approve any bond or security
whereon the name of the Village Board, any one of the Board of Trustees or any
elected or appointed officer of the village appear as bondsman or security.
      (2)   If, by mistake, a bond containing the name of any such officer is
approved by the Village Board or if any bondsman, after becoming such is
elected or appointed to any village office, this section shall not act as a
release of any such obligation incurred.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-24)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 270/1
§ 32.008 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Purchase of.
      (1)   The Village Board shall have the power to purchase liability
insurance covering and insuring all municipal officers, employees and elected
officials; said insurance to cover incidents occurring while in the performance
of their duties, which insurance may insure, cover and protect any liability
which the municipal corporation, officer, employee or elected official may
incur.
      (2)   When the insurance has been purchased, the village shall be
responsible for all premiums and deductible charges called for by any valid
liability insurance policy covering the municipal corporation, officer,
employee or elected official.
   (B)   Indemnification.
      (1)   If the Village Board elects not to purchase liability insurance
covering and insuring municipal officers, elected officials and employees as
provided in this section, then the village shall indemnify and cause to defend
municipal officers, elected officials and employees from any claim filed by an
individual, partnership or corporation when the claim is founded on any act or
omission of the municipal officers, elected officials or employees while in the
performance of their official duties, except the village shall not indemnify,
but shall defend any municipal officer, elected official or employee from any
claim made by an individual, partnership or corporation wherein the claim
alleges that the municipal officer, elected official or employee acted
intentionally, maliciously or wantonly and further, shall not indemnify or
cause to defend the officials or employees where the claim is directly or
indirectly related to the negligent care or use of a vehicle, as defined by
state statutes, and the village shall not indemnify any municipal officer,
elected official or employee from any claim made by a municipal officer,
elected official or employee.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code, the village
shall not indemnify or cause to defend any municipal officers, elected
officials or employees if the municipal officers, elected officials or
employees have liability insurance insuring the municipal officers, elected
officials or employees from the alleged claim; however, the village shall
indemnify the municipal officer, elected official or employee the personal
deductible limits of his or her personal policy.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-25)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 745 ILCS 10/2-201 et seq.
§ 32.009 CLAIMS.
   (A)   Presentation. All claims against the village for goods purchased,
damaged or originating in any other way, except for claims for salaries and
other allowances that are fixed by ordinance shall be presented on or before
the Friday preceding the monthly meeting of each month to the Village Clerk.
All such claims must be in writing and items shall be specified.
   (B)   Exception. This does not prohibit the Village Board from passing on
any claims not previously presented to the Village Clerk if, in the opinion of
the Board, justice to the claimant requires it.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-28)
§ 32.010 MUNICIPAL YEAR.
   The municipal year shall commence on May 1 and shall end on the following
April 30. No appointments shall be made during the last month of the municipal
year in the year of a mayoral election.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-29)
§ 32.011 EXPENSES; REIMBURSEMENT.
   Each member of the corporate authorities may receive reimbursement from the
municipality for expenses incurred by the member in attending committee
meetings of the corporate authorities or for other expenses incurred by the
member in the course of performing official duties.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-30)
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15(b)
§ 32.012 OFFICIAL RECORDS.
   All official records, including the corporate seal, shall be kept in the
Village Hall.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-31)
§ 32.013 FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVOR’S INSURANCE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Eligible employees shall mean all employees of the village, eligible
under the Federal Act, except persons elected to office by popular election and
also the Village Treasurer and Village Attorney.
   (B)   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose
provided in sections hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and
at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations, and shall be paid quarterly.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-32)
§ 32.014 MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   Participation. The village does hereby elect to participate in the
state’s Municipal Retirement Fund.
   (B)   Special tax. The village includes in its levy and appropriation
ordinance provision for the levying of a special tax to pay the village’s cost
of participating in the Retirement Fund and appropriate there from funds to pay
the cost of participation.
   (C)   Coverage. To be eligible to be included in the IMRF a person shall
have to work a minimum of 1,000 hours per year.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-33)
§ 32.015 CERTIFICATES OF INSURANCE.
   All contractors and subcontractors doing work for the village shall first
provide a certificate of insurance indicating worker’s compensation and
employer’s liability coverage and the policy limits for such coverage.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-34)
§ 32.016 EMPLOYEE REMOVAL.
   Any employee of the village whether appointed by the Mayor with the consent
of the Board of Trustees or hired by motion of the Board of Trustees or by a
department supervisor or head are considered to be “at will” and their
employment may be terminated without cause at any time. This provision does not
apply to any employee who has a valid written employment contract with the
village. All employees whether “at will” or under written contract shall have
the right to demand a termination hearing before the Board of Trustees and to
have an attorney present or some other spokesperson, to examine any witnesses
and present any evidence relevant to the proceedings.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-35)
SPECIFIC OFFICES
§ 32.030 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Appointment of Attorney. The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor,
by and with the advise and consent of the Village Board for the term of one
year, unless sooner removed for cause, and until a successor shall have been
appointed and qualified. The Attorney shall have full charge of the law affairs
of the village and shall be known as the Village Attorney and shall receive
compensation for office services and advice, and shall receive reasonable fees
for other services rendered when, in his or her judgment, or in the judgment of
the Mayor or Village Board, the same are necessary or are for the best
interests of the village.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-88)
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   Prosecute for village. The Village Attorney shall prosecute or
defend on behalf of the village in all cases in which the interests of the
corporation or any officer thereof are involved; and the Village Clerk shall
furnish him or her with certified copies of any ordinance, bond or paper in
keeping necessary to be filed or used in any suit or proceedings.
      (2)   Preparation of ordinances. The Attorney shall, when required,
advise the Village Board or any officer in all matters of law in which the
interests of the corporation are involved, and shall draw such ordinances,
bonds, forms and contracts, or examine and pass upon the same, as may be
required by the Mayor, the Village Board or any committee thereof.
      (3)   Judgments. The Attorney shall direct executions to be issued upon
all judgments recovered in favor of the village, and shall direct their prompt
service. The Attorney shall examine all the bills of the officers of courts,
and of other officers of the law, and shall certify to their correctness and
the liability of the village therefor.
      (4)   Violations of ordinances. The Attorney shall institute and
prosecute an action in every case of violation of a village ordinance when
instructed to do so by the Mayor or the Village Board.
      (5)   Prosecution of suits. The Attorney shall not be required to
prosecute any suit or action arising under the ordinances of the village when,
upon investigation of the same, the Attorney shall become satisfied that the
complaint was instituted maliciously, vexatiously or without just cause; and
shall dismiss or discontinue any such suit or proceeding upon such terms as he
or she may deem just or equitable.
      (6)   Collection of taxes. The Attorney is hereby authorized and
instructed to enforce the collection of any and all taxes and special
assessments in the collection of which the village is interested and to attend
all sales of real or personal property made to enforce the collection of such
taxes or special assessments and to bid thereat on behalf of the village.
      (7)   Commissions. The Village Attorney shall act as the legal advisory
for the utilities systems, for the Plan Commission, for the Zoning Board of
Appeals and for all other boards and commissions hereafter established by the
Village Board. The Attorney shall perform all legal services as may be required
for those boards and commissions.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-89)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 32.031 VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   (A)   Appointment. With the advice and consent of the Village Board, the
Mayor may appoint an engineer for the village, who shall serve for the term of
the Mayor or for such period not exceeding the term of the Mayor, as may be
designated by the Mayor and Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-94)
   (B)   Duties; salary.
      (1)   The Village Engineer shall make and submit plans, estimates and
specifications for any public work which may be proposed or ordered by the
Village Board.
      (2)   The Engineer shall also examine all public works under his or her
charge and see that the plans, estimates and specifications for the same are
properly executed.
      (3)   The Engineer shall be paid such sums as shall be determined from
time to time upon invoices submitted to the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-95)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-7-6
§ 32.032 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the office of Superintendent
of Water, an executive office of the village. The Superintendent shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees
for a term of one year.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-98)
   (B)   Utility systems. The Superintendent shall have charge of the operation
and maintenance of the municipal water distribution systems as provided in Ch.
52 of this code of ordinances.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-99)
   (C)   Department employees. All officers or employees assigned to the
Department shall perform their duties subject to the orders and under the
supervision of the Superintendent.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-100)
   (D)   Property custodian. The Superintendent shall be the custodian of all
property of the village which is not assigned to the care or custody of any
other officer.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 32.033 SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS AND PARKS.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the office of Superintendent
of Streets and Parks, an executive office of the village. The Superintendent
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village
Board for a term of one year.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-104)
   (B)   Streets. The Superintendent shall have charge of the construction and
care of all public streets, alleys and driveways in the village, and with
keeping the same clean. The Superintendent shall see to it that all gutters and
drains therein function properly and that the same are kept free from defects.
The Superintendent shall perform all the duties and responsibilities outlined
in Title V of this code of ordinances.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-105)
   (C)   Lighting. The Superintendent shall supervise the lighting of the
public streets and alleys.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-106)
   (D)   Department employees. All officers or employees assigned to the
Department shall perform their duties subject to the orders and under the
supervision of the Superintendent.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-107)
   (E)   Property custodian. The Superintendent shall be the custodian of all
property of the village which is not assigned to the care or custody of any
other officer.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-108)
§ 32.034 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Creation of position.
      (1)   There is hereby created the position of Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed under the provisions of
§
30.06(A) of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall also serve as the Building
Inspector, Floodplain Inspector and as the code enforcement officer.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-111)
   (B)   Duties. The Zoning Administrator or his or her authorized
representative shall administer and enforce the Zoning Code, as amended from
time to time and is in effect, in accordance with the powers and duties therein
set forth, and in furtherance of such authority shall:
      (1)   Issue all building permits and zoning certificates and make and
maintain records thereof;
      (2)   Issue all certificates of occupancy, and make and maintain records
thereof;
      (3)   Issue building and zoning occupancy permits as authorized by the
Zoning Code;
      (4)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and land to determine
compliance with the Zoning Code and to notify in writing the person responsible
for any violation found, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering
the action necessary to correct it;
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or
structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions,
alterations or structural changes, discontinuance of any illegal work being
done; or shall take any other action authorized by statute or by the Zoning
Code to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of the provisions;
      (6)   Prepare and cause to be published on or before March 31 of each
year, a map showing the existing zoning uses, divisions, restrictions,
regulations and classifications in effect on the preceding December 31;
      (7)   Maintain permanent and current records of the Zoning Code,
including, but not limited to, all maps, amendments, special use permits,
planned building developments, variances, appeals and applications therefor;
      (8)   Provide and maintain a source of public information relative to all
matters arising out of the Zoning Code;
      (9)   Receive, file and forward to the Plan Commission, all applications
for amendments, use variances and special permits and other matters upon which
the Plan Commission is required to act under the Zoning Code;
      (10)   Receive, file and forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals all
applications for variance, appeals and other matters upon which the Zoning
Board of Appeals is required to act under the Zoning Code;
      (11)   Keep the Mayor and Village Board advised of zoning activities by
written report once each month, including statements of permits and
certificates issued and orders promulgated;
      (12)   The Zoning Administrator may request and shall receive so far as
may be necessary in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and
cooperation of the Chief of Police in enforcing orders, of the Village Attorney
in prosecuting violators and of other village officials and officers; and
      (13)   The Zoning Administrator shall perform other duties as a code
enforcement officer as prescribed by laws and the village code and as may be
specifically assigned to him or her by the Village Board. Such laws and code
may include, but not be limited to, the Mobile Home Code, Subdivision Code and
the Building Code, as adopted and amended from time to time by the Village
Board.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-112)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 32.045 ELECTION OR APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The village shall henceforth appoint the Village Clerk, pursuant to
the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90, rather than elect the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The President shall appoint the Clerk with advice and consent of the
Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-56) (Res. 2014/06/17-R1, passed 6-17-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5 and 5/3.1-30-5
§ 32.046 VACANCY.
   Whenever a vacancy in the office of Village Clerk and more than 28 months
remain in the term and the vacancy occurs not less than 130 days before the
general municipal election, next scheduled under the general election law, the
office shall be filled for the remainder of the term at that general municipal
election. During the period from the time that the vacancy occurs until the
next election of Trustees, the Mayor shall appoint a qualified person to the
office subject to the advice and consent of the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-57)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(B)
§ 32.047 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES; BOARD MINUTES; RECORDS.
   (A)   Ordinances. The Village Clerk shall cause all ordinances passed by the
Village Board and approved by the Mayor, imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment or forfeiture, or making any appropriation to be published or
printed in book or pamphlet form, published by authority of the corporate
authorities, or be published at least once within 30 days after passage, in one
or more newspapers published in the village.
   (B)   Minutes; records. The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the
Village Board and shall keep in a suitable book to be styled “The Journal of
the Village Board”, a full and faithful record of its proceedings. The Village
Clerk shall record and properly index in a book kept for that purpose, all
ordinances passed by the Village Board and, at the foot of the record of each
ordinance so recorded, the Clerk shall make a memorandum of the date of the
passage, when published, and a memorandum of the publication of such ordinance.
   (C)   Bonds. The Clerk shall also record in proper books for the purpose,
all official bonds and note upon each bond so recorded when the same was
entered of record and the book and pages where recorded.
   (D)   Issue notices. The Clerk shall issue and cause to be served upon all
Trustees, notices of all special meetings of the Village Board; also notices to
the members of the different committees of that body and all persons whose
attendance may be required before any such committee, when so directed by the
Chairperson thereof.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-58)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4, 5/1-2-5, 5/3.1-35-90 and 5/3.1-35-
110)
§ 32.048 DELIVERY OF PAPERS TO OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Clerk shall deliver to the several committees of the Village Board
and to the officers of the village, all petitions, communications, reports and
resolutions, orders, claims and other papers referred to those committees or
officers by the Board on demand therefor.
   (B)   The Clerk shall also, without delay, deliver to the Mayor, all
ordinances or resolutions, orders and claims in his or her charge, which may
require to be approved or otherwise acted upon by the Mayor.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-59)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90
§ 32.049 PREPARATION OF DOCUMENTS, COMMISSIONS AND LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits and other
official documents required to be issued by him or her under this code and
shall attest the same with the corporate seal, and the Clerk shall, in like
manner, attest all deeds for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by the
village.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-60)
§ 32.050 LICENSES; REPORT AND DELIVERY.
   (A)   The Clerk shall report to the Village Board at its regular meeting
each month and more often if the Board so requires the data contained in the
license register with respect to licenses issued during the previous month.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-61)
   (B)   In all cases where the village requires a license to be obtained for
the purpose of engaging in or carrying on any business or occupation, and the
licensee is required to obtain plates, tags or stickers from the Clerk, it
shall be the duty of the Clerk to deliver such plates, tags or stickers to the
person paying the license fee.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-62)
§ 32.051 ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS.
   The Clerk shall have the power to administer oaths or affirmations for all
lawful purposes.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-63)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20
§ 32.052 OUTSTANDING BONDS.
   The Clerk shall keep in his or her office in a book or books kept expressly
for that purpose a correct list of all the outstanding bonds of the village,
showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom the bonds are issued;
and when the village bonds are issued, or purchased, or paid, or cancelled, the
book or books shall show that fact; and, in the annual report, the Clerk shall
describe particularly the bonds sold during the year and the terms of sale with
each and every item of expense thereof.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-64)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110
§ 32.053 REPORTS.
   The Clerk shall, on or before the regular meeting in each month, make out
and submit to the Village Board a statement or report in writing of all the
moneys received and warrants drawn during the preceding month, showing therein
from or what sources and on what account moneys were received and for what
purposes and on what account the warrants were drawn or paid.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-65)
§ 32.054 SUCCESSOR.
   The Village Clerk shall carefully preserve all books, records, papers, maps
and effects of every detail and description belonging to the village or
pertaining to the office, and not in actual use and possession of other village
officers; and, upon the expiration of his or her official term, the Clerk shall
deliver all such books, records, papers and effects to the successor in office.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-66)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 3.1-10-35
§ 32.055 PAYMENTS.
   The Clerk shall prepare daily an itemized list of all moneys received and
shall deliver a copy of the same to the Village Treasurer and shall also pay
over to the Treasurer all moneys received in the office and take a receipt
therefor.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-67)
§ 32.056 NOTIFICATION TO PERSONS APPOINTED TO OFFICE.
   Within five days after an appointment is made, the Clerk shall notify all
persons appointed to office of their appointment. The office becomes vacant
unless the person appointed qualifies within ten days after such notice.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-68)
§ 32.057 OTHER DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing duties, the Clerk shall perform all such other
duties pertaining to the office as are or may be imposed upon the office bylaw
or resolution or ordinance of the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-69)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40
§ 32.058 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Clerk, when authorized by the Village Board, may
appoint the Deputy Clerk who shall have the power and duty to execute all
documents required by any law to be executed by the Clerk and affix the seal of
the village thereto whenever required.
      (2)   In signing any documents, the Deputy Clerk shall sign the name of
the Village Clerk followed with the word, “By” and the Deputy Clerk’s name and
the words, “Deputy Clerk”.
   (B)   The powers and dunes herein described shall be executed by such Deputy
Clerk only in the absence of the Village Clerk from the Village Clerk’s office
in the Village Hall, and only when either written direction has been given by
the Village Clerk to such Deputy Clerk to exercise such power or the Village
Board has determined by resolution that the Village Clerk is temporarily or
permanently incapacitated to perform such functions.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-70)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10, 5/3.1-10-45 and 5/3.1-35-95
§ 32.059 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   (1)   The corporate seal of the village shall be the same as that
heretofore provided and used by the village.
      (2)   It shall be circular in form with the words, “Village of Oreana,
Illinois” in the exterior circle, and the words “Official Seal” in the interior
circle.
   (B)   (1)   The corporate seal shall be used as such seal in all cases
provided for by law or by the ordinances of the village and in all other cases
in which, by law and custom, it is usual and necessary for the corporation to
use a seal.
      (2)   The seal shall be and remain with the Village Clerk who shall be
the legal custodian.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/2-2-12 and 5/3.1-35-90
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 32.070 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created the office of Village Treasurer.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-72)
§ 32.071 APPOINTMENT; VACANCY.
   The Treasurer shall be appointed for a one-year term by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Village Board and shall serve until a successor is
appointed and has qualified.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-73)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 32.072 MONEY; WARRANTS; ACCOUNTS; PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall receive all moneys belonging to the
village and shall pay all warrants signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the
Village Clerk and not otherwise; and shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall give to every person paying money into the Village
Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment, and upon what
account paid, and shall file copies of such receipts with the Clerk with the
monthly reports.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-74)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40
§ 32.073 WARRANT REGISTER.
   The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed and paid,
showing the number, date and amount of each, the fund from which paid, and the
name of the person to whom and when paid; and the Treasurer shall cancel all
warrants as soon as they are redeemed.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-75)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 and 5/3.1-35-45
§ 32.074 PERSONAL USE OF FUNDS.
   The Village Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the municipality and
in the Treasurer’s custody separate and distinct from the Treasurer’s own money
and shall not use, either directly or indirectly, the municipality’s moneys or
warrants for the personal use and benefit of the Treasurer or of any other
person. Any violation of this provision shall subject the Treasurer to
immediate removal from office by the corporate authorities, who may declare the
Treasurer’s office vacant.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-76)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55
§ 32.075 BOND.
   The Treasurer shall give bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of
his or her duties and to indemnify the village for any loss due to neglect of
duty or wrongful act on his or her part; and the amount of such bond shall not
be less than 10% of the highest amount of taxes and special assessments
received by the Treasurer during any fiscal year in the preceding five fiscal
years, nor less than one and one-half times the largest amount which the Board
estimates will be in his or her custody at any one time, nor less than three
times the number of residents of the village, as determined by the last Federal
Census. Such bond shall be filed with the Clerk as required by statute.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-77)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45
§ 32.076 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall collect all payments on special assessments and shall
see to it that the same are properly recorded and credited to the particular
account entitled thereto.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-78)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85
§ 32.077 BOOKKEEPING.
   The Treasurer shall keep the books and accounts in such a manner as to show
with accuracy, all moneys received and disbursed for the village, stating from
whom and on what account received, and to whom and on what account paid out,
and in such a way that the books and accounts may be readily investigated and
understood, and the books and accounts and all files and papers of the office
shall be, at all times, open to examination by the Mayor or the Finance
Committee of the Board.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-79)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40
§ 32.078 STATEMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall report to the corporate authorities at the regular
monthly meeting, a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures
of the municipality as shown by his or her books up to the time of the report.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-80)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45
§ 32.079 REPORTING DELINQUENT OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to report to the Village Clerk any
officer of the village authorized to receive money for the use of the village
who may fail to make a return of the moneys received by the Treasurer at the
time required bylaw or by ordinances of the village.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-81)
§ 32.080 YEAR-END REPORT.
   (A)   (1)   Within six months after the end of each fiscal year, the
Treasurer shall prepare and file annually with the Village Clerk an account of
moneys received and expenditures incurred during the preceding fiscal year, as
specified in this section.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall show the following in such account:
         (a)   All moneys received by the village, indicating the total amounts
in the aggregate received in each account of the village, with a general
statement concerning the source of such receipts; provided, however, for the
purposes of this division (A), the term “account” shall not be construed to
mean each individual taxpayer, householder, licensee, utility user or such
other persons whose payments to the village are credited to the general
account;
         (b)   Except as provided in paragraph (A)(1) above all moneys paid out
by the village where the total amount paid during the fiscal year exceeds
$2,500, giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid, and
the total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account;
         (c)   All moneys paid out by the village as compensation for personal
services, giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid and
the total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account; and
         (d)   A summary statement of operations for all funds and account
groups of the village as excerpted from the annual financial report, as filed
with the appropriate state agency of the state.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such account from the Village Treasurer, the Village
Clerk shall publish the account at least once in one or more newspapers
published in the village. (Note: the Treasurer shall file a copy of the report
with the County Treasurer, as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-70.)
(2007 Code, § 1-2-82)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65
§ 32.081 APPROPRIATION SUBMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   The Treasurer shall on or before May 15 in each year, and before
the annual appropriations to be made by the Village Board, submit to the
Village Board a report of the estimates as nearly as may be of moneys necessary
to defray the expenses of the corporation during the current fiscal year.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall, in said report, classify the different objects
and branches of expenditures, giving as nearly as may be the amount required
for each; and for the purpose of making such a report, the Treasurer is hereby
authorized to require of all officers their statement of the condition and
expenses of their respective offices or departments with any proposed
improvements, and the probable expense thereof, all contracts made and
unfinished and the amount of any and all unexpended appropriations of the
preceding year.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall, in such report, show the aggregate income of the
preceding fiscal year, from all sources, the amount of liabilities outstanding
upon which interest is to be paid, the bonds and debts payable during the year,
when due and when payable; and in such report, shall give such other
information to the Village Board, as he or she may deem necessary, to the end
that the Village Board may fully understand the money exigencies and demands
upon the corporation for the current year.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-83)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-115
§ 32.082 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Treasurer is hereby required to keep all funds and moneys in his
or her custody belonging to the village in such places of deposit as have been
designated by division (F) below. When requested by the Treasurer, the
corporate authorities shall designate a bank or banks in which may be kept the
funds and moneys of the village in the custody of the Treasurer. When a bank or
savings and loan association has been designated as a depository, it shall
continue as such depository until ten days have elapsed after a new depository
is designated and has qualified by furnishing the statements of resources and
liabilities as required by this section. When a new depository is designated,
the corporate authorities shall notify the sureties of the Village Treasurer of
that fact in writing at least five days before the transfer of funds. The
Treasurer shall be discharged from responsibility for all funds or money that
the Treasurer deposits in a designated bank or savings and loan association
while the funds and money are so deposited.
   (B)   The Village Treasurer may require any bank or savings and loan
association to deposit with the Treasurer securities or mortgages that have a
market value at least equal to the amount of the funds or moneys of the
municipality deposited with the bank or savings and loan association that
exceeds the insurance limitation provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
   (C)   The Village Treasurer may enter into agreements of any definite or
indefinite term regarding the deposit, redeposit, investment, reinvestment or
withdrawal of municipal funds.
   (D)   (1)   Each Village Treasurer may:
         (a)   Combine moneys from more than one fund of a single municipality
for the purpose of investing those funds; and
         (b)   Join with other municipal treasurers or municipalities for the
purpose of investing the municipal funds of which the Treasurer has custody.
      (2)   Joint investments shall be made only in investments authorized by
law for the investment of municipal funds. When moneys of more than one fund of
a single municipality or moneys of more than one municipality are combined for
investment purposes, the moneys combined for that purpose shall be accounted
for separately in all respects and the earnings from investments shall be
separately and individually computed, recorded and credited to the fund or
municipality, as the case may be, for which the investment was acquired.
   (E)   No bank or savings and loan association shall receive public funds as
permitted by this section unless it has complied with the requirements
established by § 6 of the Public Funds Investment Act.
   (F)   The following bank(s) are herewith designated as places of deposit
where the Treasurer of the village is required to keep all funds and moneys in
his or her custody belonging to the municipality: Gerber State Bank, Argenta,
IL.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-84)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 30 ILCS 235/6 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50
CHAPTER 33: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Prevailing wage rates
Equal Employment Policy
   
33.15   Definition
   
33.16   Equal Employment Opportunity Law
   
33.17   Non-discriminatory employment
   
33.18   Contractors that discriminate
   
33.19   Non-discriminatory service
   
33.20   Hiring minority individuals
   
33.21   Employees with disabilities
   
33.22   Village employees
   
33.23   Mayor as enforcing officer
State Gift Ban Act
   
33.35   Definitions
   
33.36   Gift ban
   
33.37   Exceptions
   
33.38   Attendance at events
   
33.39   Disposition of gifts
   
33.40   Reimbursement
   
33.41   Ethics Commission
   
33.42   Complaint procedure
   
33.43   Enforcement
   
33.44   Review
   
33.45   Publication
Sexual Harassment Policy
   
33.55   Prohibition on sexual harassment
   
33.56   Definition of sexual harassment
   
33.57   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment
   
33.58   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment allegations
   
33.59   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment
   
33.60   Consequences for knowingly making a false report
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PREVAILING WAGE RATES.
   The village adopts the most current prevailing wage rates for employment
purposes.
(Ord. 06/13/2017-1, passed 6-13-2017)
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY
§ 33.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the term MINORITY will refer to American
Indians, Asians, Blacks or Hispanics, or to such protected classes as youth,
elderly, women or persons with disabilities.
(2007 Code, § 12-1-1)
§ 33.16 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY LAW.
   The village hereby declares to uphold, defend, enforce and advocate for all
laws related to Equal Employment Opportunity including, but not limited to, the
following:
   (A)   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d et
seq., which prohibits discrimination in the participation in or benefits of
programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance on the basis of
race, color or national origin;
   (B)   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et
seq., which prohibits discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or
national origin in all employment practices including hiring, firing,
promotions, compensation and other terms, privileges and conditions of
employment;
   (C)   Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, being 20 U.S.C. §§ 1681
et seq., which prohibits discrimination in federally assisted education
programs;
   (D)   The Equal Pay Act of 1963, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., which
covers all employees who are covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29
U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq. The Act forbids pay differentials on the basis of sex;
   (E)   The Age Discrimination Act of 1967, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 621 et seq.,
which prohibits discrimination because of age against anyone between the ages
of 40 and 65;
   (F)   Federal Executive Order 11246, which requires every contract with
federal financial assistance to contain a clause against discrimination because
of race, color, religion, sex or national origin;
   (G)   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 794,
and POL implementing regulations at 29 C.F.R. part 32, which prohibit any
discrimination based on disability;
   (H)   Section 167 of JTPA and the U.S. POL Regulations at 29 C.F.R. parts 31
and 32, which provides that no person in the United States shall be excluded
from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to
discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin, under any
program or activity receiving federal financial assistance from the Department
of Labor;
   (I)   Chapter 68, Article I, §§ 17 through 19, of the state’s Constitution,
which prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry,
disability and sex in the liking and promotion practices of any employer; and
   (J)   The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101
et seq., which prohibits any discrimination against qualified individuals with
disabilities on the basis of their disability.
(2007 Code, § 12-1-2)
§ 33.17 NON-DISCRIMINATORY EMPLOYMENT.
   The village will assure non-discriminatory employment practices in
recruitment, recruitment advertising, employment, placement, layoff or
termination, promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of payor other forms of
compensation and use of facilities.
(2007 Code, § 12-1-3)
§ 33.18 CONTRACTORS THAT DISCRIMINATE.
   (A)   The village will not contract with other agencies, banks, businesses,
vendors and the like who practice or establish a pattern of discrimination
based on sex, color, race, religion, age, national origin, political
affiliation or belief.
   (B)   The village will incorporate into any contract for construction work,
or modification thereof, subject to the relevant rules, regulations and orders
of the Secretary of Labor or of any prior authority that remain in effect,
which is paid for in whole or in part with the aid of such financial
assistance, the following “equal opportunity clause”.
      (1)   The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, disability or
national origin. The contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that
applicants are employed, and the employees are treated during employment,
without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, national origin or
disability. Such action shall include, but not be limited, to the following:
employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer; recruitment or recruitment
advertising; layoff or termination; rates of payor other forms of compensation;
and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The contractor agrees to
post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for
employment, notices setting forth the provisions of this non-discrimination
clause.
      (2)   The contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisement for
employees placed by or on behalf of the contractor, state that all qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin or disability.
      (3)   In the event of the contractor’s non-compliance with the equal
opportunity clause or with any of the said rules, regulations, and orders, this
contract may be canceled, terminated or suspended in whole or in part and the
contractor may be declared ineligible for further government contracts or
federally assisted construction contracts.
      (4)   The contractor will include the provisions of this equal
opportunity clause in every subcontract or purchase order, unless exempted by
the rules, regulations or orders of the Secretary of Labor so that such
provisions will be binding upon each such subcontractor or vendor.
(2007 Code, § 12-1-4)
§ 33.19 NON-DISCRIMINATORY SERVICE.
   The village assures that it will actively provide non-discriminatory
outreach, selection and service to all individuals.
(2007 Code, § 12-1-5)
§ 33.20 HIRING MINORITY INDIVIDUALS.
   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job categories so
that minority employment in all categories of the work force will represent a
proportionate share of minority populations in the village as well as
surrounding areas.
(2007 Code, § 12-1-6)
§ 33.21 EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES.
   The village will provide accommodations to the best of its ability for
employees with disabilities, contingent on budget and structural limitations.
(2007 Code, § 12-1-7)
§ 33.22 VILLAGE EMPLOYEES.
   All village employees are expected to adhere to the above policy and to work
actively for its implementation both internally and in carrying out village
program activities.
(2007 Code, § 12-1-8)
§ 33.23 MAYOR AS ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The village designates the Mayor and the Village Board to carry out the EEO/
AA plan.
(2007 Code, § 12-1-9) (Ord. 97-03, passed 8-12-1997)
STATE GIFT BAN ACT
§ 33.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. An ethics commission created by this subchapter.
   EMPLOYEE. All full-time, part-time and contractual employees, appointed and
elected officials and directors of a governmental entity.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and chink and honoraria for speaking engagements related
to or attributable to government employment or the official position of an
employee, member or officer.
   GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY. Each office, board, commission, agency, department,
authority or administrative unit of the village.
   OFFICER. A village officer.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) organized and operated primarily for
the purpose of directly or indirectly accepting contributions or making
expenditures, or both, for the function of influencing or attempting to
influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the election of Presidential or Vice-Presidential electors,
whether or not the individual or electors are selected, nominated, elected or
appointed. The term includes the making of expenditures relating to an office
described in the preceding sentence that, if incurred by the individual, would
be allowable as a federal income tax deduction for trade or business expenses.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action:
         (a)   By the member or officer; or
         (b)   In the case of an employee, by the employee or by the member,
officer, governmental entity or other employee directing the employee.
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business:
         (a)   With the member or officer; or
         (b)   In the case of an employee, with the employee or with the
member, officer, governmental entity or other employee directing the employee.
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated:
         (a)   By the member or officer; or
         (b)   In the case of an employee, by the employee or by the member,
officer, governmental entity or other employee directing the employee.
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non-performance of the official duties of the member, officer or employee;
or
      (5)   Is registered or required to be registered with the Secretary of
State under the Lobbyist Registration Act, 25 ILCS 1070/1 et seq.
   ULTIMATE JURISDICTIONAL AUTHORITY. The Village Board of Trustees.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 33.36 GIFT BAN.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no member, officer or
employee shall solicit or accept any gift from any prohibited source or in
violation of any federal or state statute, rule or regulation. This ban applies
to and includes spouses of and immediately family living with the member,
officer or employee. No prohibited source shall offer or make a gift that
violates this section.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 33.37 EXCEPTIONS.
   The restriction in §
33.36 of this chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   Any thing for which the member, officer or employee pays the market
value or any thing not used and promptly disposed of as provided in §
33.39 of this chapter;
   (B)   A contribution, as defined in Art. 9 of the Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/
9-1 et seq., that is lawfully made under that Act or attendance at a fund-
raising event sponsored by a political organization;
   (C)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the individual
as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt,
great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandfather,
grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter- in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother,
stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister and
including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother of the individual’s
spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancee;
   (D)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the member, officer or employee has reason to believe that,
under the circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position
or employment of the member, officer or employee and not because of the
personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is provided on the basis of
personal friendship, the member, officer or employee shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
      (1)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving the
gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of gifts
between those individuals;
      (2)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the member, officer or employee
the individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
      (3)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the member, officer or employee
the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other members, officers or employees.
   (E)   A commercially reasonable loan evidenced in writing which repayment
due by a date certain made in the ordinary course of the lender’s business;
   (F)   A contribution or other payments to a legal defense fund established
for the benefit of a member, officer or employee that is otherwise lawfully
made;
   (G)   Intra-office and inter-office gifts. For the purpose of this
subchapter, INTRA-OFFICE GIFT means:
      (1)   Any gift given to a member, officer or employee of the village from
another member, officer or employee of the village; and
      (2)   Any gift given to a member, officer or employee of any other
governmental entity, from another employee of that governmental entity.
   (H)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits:
      (1)   Resulting from the outside business or employment activities (or
outside activities that are not connected to the duties of the member, officer
or employee as an office holder or employee) of the member, officer or employee
or the spouse of the member, officer or employee, if the benefits have not been
offered or enhanced because of the official position or employment of the
member, officer or employee and are customarily provided to others in similar
circumstances;
      (2)   Customarily provided by a prospective employer in connection with
bona fide employment discussion; or
      (3)   Provided by a political organization in connection with a fund-
raising or campaign event sponsored by that organization.
   (I)   Pension and other benefits resulting from continued participation in
an employee welfare and benefits plan maintained by a former employer;
   (J)   Informational materials that are sent to the office of the member,
officer or employee in the form of books, articles, periodicals, other written
materials, audio tapes, video tapes or other forms of communication;
   (K)   Awards or prizes that are given to competitors in contest or events
open to the public, including random drawings;
   (L)   Honorary degrees (and associated travel, food, refreshments and
entertainment provided in the presentation of degrees and awards);
   (M)   Training (including food and refreshments furnished to all attendees
as an integral part of the training) provided to a member, officer or employee
if the training is in the interest of the governmental entity;
   (N)   Educational missions, including meetings with governmental officials
either foreign or domestic, intended to educate public officials on matters of
public policy, to which the member, officer or employee, may be invited to
participate along with other federal, state or local public officials and
community leaders;
   (O)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death;
   (P)   Any thing that is paid for by the federal government, the state or a
governmental entity, or secured by the government or governmental entity under
a governmental contract;
   (Q)   A gift of personal hospitality of an individual, other than a
registered lobbyist or agent of a foreign principal, including hospitality
extended for a non-business purpose by an individual, not a corporation or
organization, at the personal residence of that individual or the individual’s
family or on property or facilities owned by that individual or the
individual’s family;
   (R)   Free attendance at a widely attended event permitted under §
33.38 of this chapter;
   (S)   Opportunities and benefits that are:
      (1)   Available to the public or to a class consisting of all employees,
officers or members, whether or not restricted on the basis of geographic
consideration;
      (2)   Offered to members of a group or class in which membership is
unrelated to employment or official position;
      (3)   Offered to members of an organization such as an employee’s
association or credit union, in which membership is related to employment or
official position and similar opportunities are available to large segments of
the public through organizations of similar size;
      (4)   Offered to any group or class that is not defined in a manner that
specifically discriminates among government employees on the basis of branch of
government or type of responsibility, or on a basis that favors those of higher
rank or rate of pay;
      (5)   In the form of loans from banks and other financial institutions on
terms generally available to the public; or
      (6)   In the form of reduced membership or other fees for participation
in organization activities offered to all government employees by professional
organizations, if the only restriction on membership relates to professional
qualifications.
   (T)   A plaque, trophy or other item that is substantially commemorative in
nature and that is extended for presentation;
   (U)   Golf or tennis; food or refreshments of nominal value and catered food
or refreshments; meals or beverages consumed on the premises from which they
were purchased;
   (V)   Donations of products from an Illinois company that are intended
primarily for promotional purposes such as display or free distribution, and
are of nominal value to any individual or recipient; and
   (W)   An item of nominal value such as a greeting card, a baseball cap or t-
shirt.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-3)
§ 33.38 ATTENDANCE AT EVENTS.
   (A)   A member, officer or employee may accept an offer of free attendance
at a widely attended convention, conference, symposium, forum, panel
discussion, dinner, viewing, reception or similar event provided by the sponsor
of the event, if:
      (1)   The member, officer or employee participates in the event as a
speaker or a panel participant, by presenting information related to
government, or by performing a ceremonial function appropriate to the member’s,
officer’s or employee’s official position or employment; or
      (2)   Attendance at the event is appropriate to the performance of civic
affairs in the state or the official duties or representative function of the
member, officer or employee.
   (B)   A member, officer or employee who attends an event described in
division (A) above may accept a sponsor’s unsolicited offer of free attendance
at the event for an accompanying individual.
   (C)   A member, officer or employee or the spouse or dependent thereof, may
accept a sponsor’s unsolicited offer of free attendance at a charity event;
except that, reimbursement for transportation and lodging may not be accepted
in connection with the event.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, the term FREE ATTENDANCE may include
waiver of all or part of a conference or other fee, the provision of
transportation or the provision of food, refreshments, entertainment and
instructional materials furnished to all attendees as an integral part of the
event. The term does not include entertainment collateral to the event, nor
does it include food or refreshments taken other than as a group setting with
all or substantially all other attendees, except as authorized in §
33.37(U) of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-4)
§ 33.39 DISPOSITION OF GIFTS.
   The recipient of a gift that is given in violation of this subchapter may,
at his or her own discretion, return the item to the donor or give the item or
an amount equal to its value to an appropriate charity.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 33.40 REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   A reimbursement (including payment in kind) to a member, officer or
employee from a private source other than a registered lobbyist or agent of a
foreign principal for necessary transportation, lodging and related expenses
for travel to a meeting, speaking engagement, fact-finding trip or similar
event in connection with the duties of the member, officer or employee as an
officer holder or employee shall be deemed to be a reimbursement to the
governmental entity and not a gift prohibited by this subchapter if the member,
officer or employee:
      (1)   Discloses the expenses reimbursed or to be reimbursed and the
authorization to the village’s Board of Trustees, within 30 days after travel
is completed; and
      (2)   In the case of an employee, receives advance authorization, from
the village’s Board of Trustees to accept reimbursement.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A) above, events, the activities of which
are substantially recreational in nature, shall not be considered to be in
connection with the duties of a member, officer or employee as an office holder
or employee.
   (C)   Each advance authorization to accept reimbursement shall be signed by
the President of the Board of Trustees and shall include:
      (1)   The name of the employee;
      (2)   The name of the person who will make the reimbursement;
      (3)   The time, place and purpose of the travel; and
      (4)   A determination that the travel is in connection with the duties of
the employee as an employee and would not create the appearance that the
employee is using public employment for private gain.
   (D)   Each disclosure made under division (A) above of expenses reimbursed
or to be reimbursed shall be signed by the member, officer or employee and
shall include:
      (1)   A good faith estimate of total transportation expenses reimbursed
or to be reimbursed;
      (2)   A good faith estimate of total lodging expenses reimbursed or to be
reimbursed;
      (3)   A good faith estimate of total meal expenses reimbursed or to be
reimbursed;
      (4)   A good faith estimate of the total of other expenses reimbursed or
to be reimbursed; and
      (5)   A determination that all those expenses are necessary
transportation, lodging and related expenses.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-6)
§ 33.41 ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   An Ethics Commission is hereby created to consist of three
members of the village’s Board of Trustees as appointed for one-year terms by
the President of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The President of the Board of Trustees may remove a Commissioner in
case of incompetency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office after service on
the Commissioner by certified mail, return receipt requested, of a copy of the
written charges against the Commissioner and an opportunity to be heard in
person or by counsel upon not less than ten days’ notice. Vacancies shall be
filled by the President of the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   The Commission shall meet as often as necessary to perform its
duties. Commissioners may be reimbursed for their reasonable expenses actually
incurred in the performance of their duties.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-7)
   (B)   The Commission may employ necessary staff persons and may contract for
services that cannot be satisfactorily performed by the staff.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-8)
   (C)   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers;
      (2)   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct research, conduct closed hearings and deliberations, issue
recommendations and impose a fine;
      (3)   To act only upon the receipt of a written complaint alleging a
violation of this subchapter and not upon its own prerogative;
      (4)   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated this subchapter;
      (5)   To submit to the village’s Board of Trustees an annual statistical
report for each year consisting of:
         (a)   The number of complaints filed;
         (b)   The number of complaints deemed to sufficiently allege a
violation of this subchapter;
         (c)   The recommendation, fine or decision issued for each complaint;
         (d)   The number of complaints resolved; and
         (e)   The status of pending complaints.
      (6)   The powers and duties of the Commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this subchapter.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-9)
§ 33.42 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Complaints alleging the violation of this subchapter shall be filed
with the Ethics Commission as follows.
      (1)   All complaints must be in writing and shall be submitted to the
Clerk of the village who shall immediately forward the same to the Chairperson
of the Ethics Commission.
      (2)   The complaint shall not be properly filed until received by the
Village Clerk.
   (B)   Within three business days after the receipt of an ethics complaint,
the Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice
to the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy
of the complaint. The Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three business days after the submittal to the Commission. The notices
to the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time
and place of the meeting on the sufficiency of the complaint and probable
cause.
   (C)   Upon at least 24-hours’ public notice of the meeting, the Commission
shall meet in a closed session to review the sufficiency of the complaint and,
if the complaint is deemed to sufficiently allege a violation of this
subchapter, to determine if there is probable cause, based on evidence
presented by the complainant, to proceed. The Commission shall issue notice to
the complainant and the respondent of the Commission’s ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause within seven
business days after receiving the complaint. If the complaint is deemed to
sufficiently allege a violation of this subchapter and there is a determination
of probable cause, then the Commission’s notice to the parties shall include a
hearing date scheduled within four weeks after the complaint’s receipt. If the
complaint is deemed not to sufficiently allege a violation or if there is no
determination of probable cause, then the Commission shall send by certified
mail, return receipt requested, a notice to the parties of the decision to
dismiss the complaint and that notice shall be made public.
   (D)   On the scheduled date and upon at least 24-hours’ public notice of the
meeting, the Commission shall conduct a closed meeting on the complaint and
allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and evidence.
   (E)   (1)   Within six weeks after the complaint’s receipt, the Commission
shall:
         (a)   Dismiss the complaint; or
         (b)   Issue a preliminary recommendation to the alleged violator and
to the violator’s ultimate jurisdictional authority or impose a fine upon the
violator, or both.
      (2)   The particular findings in the instant case, the preliminary
recommendation and any fine shall be made public.
   (F)   Within seven business days after the issuance of the preliminary
recommendation or imposition of a fine, or both, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint. The filing of the demand
shall stay the enforcement of the preliminary recommendation or fine. Within
two weeks after receiving the demand, the Commission shall conduct a public
hearing on the complaint after at least 24 hours’ public notice of the hearing
and allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and evidence.
Within five business days, the Commission shall publicly issue a final
recommendation to the alleged violator and to the violator’s ultimate
jurisdictional authority or impose a fine upon the violator, or both.
   (G)   If a complaint is filed during the 60 days preceding the date of any
election at which the respondent is a candidate, the Commission shall render
its decision as required under division (E) above within seven days after the
complaint is filed, and during the seven days preceding that election, the
Commission shall render such decision before the date of that election, if
possible.
   (H)   The Commission may levy a fine of up to $5,000 against any person who
knowingly files a frivolous complaint alleging a violation of this subchapter,
said fine to be deposited in the village’s General Revenue Account.
   (I)   A complaint alleging the violation of this subchapter must be filed
within one year after the alleged violation.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-10)
§ 33.43 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A Commission may recommend to a person’s ultimate jurisdictional
authority disciplinary action against the person it determines to be in
violation of this subchapter. The recommendation may prescribe the following
courses of action:
      (1)   A reprimand;
      (2)   To cease and desist the offensive action;
      (3)   A return or refund of money or other items, or an amount of
restitution for services, received in violation of this subchapter; and
      (4)   Donation to a charity of an amount equal to the gift.
   (B)   The ultimate jurisdictional authority of a person who violates an
ethics provision may take disciplinary action against the person as recommended
by a Commission or as it deems appropriate, to the extent it is
constitutionally permissible for the ultimate jurisdictional authority to take
that action. The ultimate jurisdictional authority shall make its action, or
determination to take no action, available to the public.
   (C)   If, after a hearing, the Commission finds no violation of this
subchapter, the Commission shall dismiss the complaint.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-11)
§ 33.44 REVIEW.
   A Commission’s decision to dismiss a complaint or its recommendation is not
a final administrative decision, but its imposition of a fine is a final
administration decision subject to judicial review under the Administrative
Review Law of the Code of Civil Procedure, 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-12)
§ 33.45 PUBLICATION.
   The Clerk is hereby authorized to publish this subchapter in pamphlet form.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-14)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY
§ 33.55 PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person’s sex. The courts
have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title
VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have
a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual
harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders
and sexual orientations. It is a policy of village to prohibit harassment of
any person by any municipal official, municipal agent, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All municipal
officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal agencies or
offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof.
(Ord. 2017/12/19-5, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 33.56 DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   This chapter adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
   (A)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (B)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      (1)   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature;
      (2)   Non-verbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, “catcalls”, “smacking”
or “kissing” noises;
      (3)   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites;
      (4)   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault; or
      (5)   Textual/electronic: “sexting” (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
   (C)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a reasonable person.
(Ord. 2017/12/19-5, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 33.57 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself
or himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident
(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her or his
position to the offending employee, and her or his immediate supervisor. It is
not necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the
report.
   (B)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      (1)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her or his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      (2)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
         (a)   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the City Manager or Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of
the municipality.
         (b)   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      (3)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
be filed within 300 days.
   (C)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   (D)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. 2017/12/19-5, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 33.58 PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS.
   (A)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee’s:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
      (2)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      (3)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee’s involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      (1)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state agency, or
other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
      (2)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
      (3)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   (E)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer
may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
   (F)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is a
civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to conspire, to
retaliate against a person because he or she has opposed that which he or she
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because he or she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or
participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois
Human Rights Act.
   (G)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge due within 180 days (IDHR) or 300 days (EEOC) of the
alleged retaliation.
(Ord. 2017/12/19-5, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 33.59 CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks
and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or
the prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be
subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or
discharge by the municipality, and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency.
(Ord. 2017/12/19-5, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 33.60 CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT.
   (A)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
   (B)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the state police, a
state’s attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 2017/12/19-5, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A fine of up to $1,000 per violation of §§
33.35 through
33.45 of this chapter shall be deposited into the village’s General Revenue
Account.
(2007 Code, § 1-5-11)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   Department established
   
34.02   Chief; office created; duties
   
34.03   Patrol officers; appointment
   
34.04   Salary
   
34.05   Legal processes
   
34.06   Assisting police officers
   
34.07   Officers aiding Fire Department
   
34.08   Aiding in escape
   
34.09   Use of intoxicating liquor
   
34.10   Witness fees
   
34.11   General rules and regulations
   
34.12   Training
   
34.13   Stolen property
   
34.14   Officers; duties; hiring standards; discipline
Civil Emergencies
   
34.25   Definitions
   
34.26   Local disaster declarations
   
34.27   Curfew
   
34.28   Authority of Mayor to issue orders
   
34.29   Effectiveness
   
34.30   Notification
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government
of the village which shall be known as the “Police Department”.
   (B)   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and of such
number of patrol officers as may be provided from time to time by the Village
Board.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-1)
§ 34.02 CHIEF; OFFICE CREATED; DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of the Chief of Police. The
Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-2)
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall keep records and make reports concerning the
activities of his or her Department as may be required. The Chief shall be
responsible for the performance of the Police Department, of all its functions,
and all persons who are members of the Department shall serve subject to the
orders of the Chief of Police.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-3)
§ 34.03 PATROL OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT.
   A sufficient number of patrol officers shall be appointed by the Mayor, by
and with the advice and consent of the Village Board to serve for one year or
until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. A police officer may be
appointed to office by the Mayor and Village Board if he or she meets the
necessary qualifications notwithstanding the fact that the police officer is
not a resident of the village when appointed or when he or she is to serve as
such an official.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-4)
§ 34.04 SALARY.
   The Police Department shall receive such compensation as may be provided by
ordinance or resolution of the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-5)
§ 34.05 LEGAL PROCESSES.
   All police shall have the power and authority to execute village warrants or
other similar legal processes outside the corporate limits of the village and
within such distance there from as authorized bylaw in all cases when any
ordinance of the Village Board made pursuant to law shall prescribe a penalty
for the violation of any of its provisions by persons residing, acting or doing
any business within the limits of the village.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-6)
§ 34.06 ASSISTING POLICE OFFICERS.
   Every police officer of the village may, at any time, call upon any able-
bodied person(s) above the age of 18 years to aid him or her in the arresting,
retaking or holding in custody of any person guilty of having committed any
unlawful act or charged therewith, or to aid such officer in preventing the
commission of any unlawful act.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-7)
§ 34.07 OFFICERS AIDING FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Every police officer shall aid the Fire Department by giving the alarm in
case of fire and in clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity
of any fire so that the firefighters shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of their duties.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-8)
§ 34.08 AIDING IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the village to resist or obstruct any
member of the police force in the discharge of his or her duty or to endeavor
to do so, in any manner, assist any person in the custody of any member of the
Police Department to escape or to attempt to escape from such custody or to
attempt to rescue any such person in custody.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.09 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   No member on an active tour of duty or while wearing the official police
officer’s badge of the village shall indulge in the use of intoxicating liquor
of any kind and intoxication at any time shall be sufficient cause for removal.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.10 WITNESS FEES.
   Any member of the Police Department shall appear as witness whenever this is
necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any state or
federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as witness
in any action or suit to which the village is a party; and fees paid for such
services shall be turned over to the Chief of Police who shall deposit the same
with the Village Treasurer.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-12)
§ 34.11 GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
conduct and guidance of the members of the Police Department as he or she shall
deem advisable and such rules, when approved by the Mayor, shall be binding on
such members.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-13)
§ 34.12 TRAINING.
   All police officers, prior to entering upon any of their duties, shall
receive a course of training in the use of weapons and other police procedures
by the proper authorities as established by the state for full-time police
officers. Such courses of training shall not be less than 400 hours in
duration. Upon completion of the course of training, the applicant shall file
with the Mayor a certificate attesting to the completion of the course.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-14)
§ 34.13 STOLEN PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or
stolen property in the village.
(2007 Code, § 30-2-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-2
§ 34.14 OFFICERS; DUTIES; HIRING STANDARDS; DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   Part-time police. The village may employ part-time police officers
from time to time as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer as delineated in this section. The number of
hours a part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-
time police officer shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time
police officers. Part-time police officer shall be trained in accordance with
the state’s Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the rules
requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a full-time or part-time
police officer must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health
and physically and mentally able to perform the assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (5)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver’s license;
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline.
      (1)   Part-time officer shall be under the disciplinary jurisdiction of
the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the discretion of the
village’s Board of Trustees and shall not have any property rights in their
employment.
      (2)   Part-time police officers may be removed by the village’s Board of
Trustees at any time.
      (3)   Part-time police officer shall comply with all applicable rules as
specified in division (B) above.
(Ord. 2015-06-16-1, passed 6-16-2015)
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
§ 34.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village
excepting officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated
to duty with reference to the civil emergency.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or technological cause,
including but not limited to fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods
of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation, critical shortages of
essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot, hostile military or paramilitary
action, public health emergencies, or acts of domestic terrorism.
(2007 Code, § 30-1-1)
§ 34.26 LOCAL DISASTER DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   A local disaster may be declared only by the principal executive
officer of a political subdivision, or his or her interim emergency successor,
as provided in Section 7 of the Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act. It
shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days except
by or with the consent of the governing board of the political subdivision. Any
order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local disaster
shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly with
the County Clerk or Village Clerk, as the case may be, in the area to which it
applies.
   (B)   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster is to activate the
emergency operations plan of that political subdivision and to authorize the
furnishing of aid and assistance thereunder.
(2007 Code, § 30-1-2)
§ 34.27 CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, he or she may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village or to the
village as a whole as he or she deems advisable and applicable during such
hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the
public safety and welfare.
(2007 Code, § 30-1-3)
§ 34.28 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR TO ISSUE ORDERS.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor may also, in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away of
gasoline or other flammable liquid or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever;
   (E)   Order the use of any and all village property, equipment and manpower
to preserve the health and welfare of village residents and their property;
   (F)   Order the utilization of any other village asset to the other limit or
contain the emergency area or its impact on village residents or their
property; and
   (G)   Issue any such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property when considering the whole of the welfare of
the residents of the village and their property.
(2007 Code, § 30-1-4)
§ 34.29 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of seven
days or until adjournment of the next regular meeting of the village’s Board of
Trustees, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the Mayor indicating
that the civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor shall have the power to
renew the proclamation of the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each
seven-day period during the time the civil emergency exists, but in no case may
the Mayor extend the proclamation beyond the adjournment of the next regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees or any special meeting called for the purpose
of acting upon the emergency. Nothing herein shall prevent the village’s Board
of Trustees from declaring a continuing state of emergency and vesting
continued extraordinary powers in the Mayor to a date certain or until the
adjournment of the next regular meeting of the Board of Trustees.
(2007 Code, § 30-1-5)
§ 34.30 NOTIFICATION.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Mayor shall notify a
local television station, a radio station and a newspaper with general
circulation within the village and shall cause three copies of the proclamation
declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the following places
within the village:
   (A)   The Village Hall;
   (B)   The Post Office; and
   (C)   The Library.
(2007 Code, § 30-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-6
CHAPTER 35: FREEDOM OF INFORMATION PROCEDURES
Section
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Policy
   
35.03   Individual privacy protected
   
35.04   Public records available
   
35.05   Requests to be in writing
   
35.06   Fees
   
35.07   Time limit for compliance with request
   
35.08   Extension of time limit; notice
   
35.09   Unduly burdensome request
   
35.10   Certain information exempt from inspection and copying
   
35.11   Notice of denial of request; appeals
   
35.12   Granting request; procedure for inspection
   
35.13   Written request not required for certain documents
   
35.14   Dissemination of information about public bodies
   
35.15   List of categories of records
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COPYING. The reproduction of any public record by means of any photographic,
electronic, mechanical or other process, device or means.
   FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT. The state’s Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS
140/1.1 et seq.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, organization or
association, acting individually or as a group.
   PUBLIC RECORD. All records, reports, forms, writings, letters, memorandums,
books, papers, maps, photographs, microfilms, cards, tapes, recordings,
electronic data processing records, recorded information and all other
documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, having
been or being prepared, used, received, possessed or under control of the
village.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-1)
§ 35.02 POLICY.
   It is declared to be the public policy of the village that all persons are
entitled to full and complete information regarding the affairs of the village.
The official acts and policies of the public officials and public employees of
the village shall be consistent with the terms of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-2)
§ 35.03 INDIVIDUAL PRIVACY PROTECTED.
   This chapter is not intended to be used to violate individual policy, nor
for the purpose of furthering a commercial enterprise, or to disrupt the duly
undertaken work of the village.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-3)
§ 35.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Freedom of Information Act.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-4)
§ 35.05 REQUESTS TO BE IN WRITING.
   (A)   All requests for inspection or copying of public records shall be in
writing and shall be addressed to the Clerk. The requestor shall include the
following information in any request for public records:
      (1)   The requestor’s full name, mailing address and telephone number at
which the requestor can be reached during normal business hours;
      (2)   A description of the records sought, being as specific as possible;
and
      (3)   A statement as to whether the request is for inspection, copying or
both.
   (B)   The Clerk shall make available a form for use by requestors; however,
no request shall be denied for failure to use the form.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-5)
§ 35.06 FEES.
   (A)   The village hereby establishes and shall charge fees reasonably
calculated to reimburse its actual cost for reproducing and certifying public
records and for the use, by any person, of the equipment of the village to copy
records. Such fees exclude the costs of any search for and review of the
record, and shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction and certification,
unless otherwise provided by state statute. The charge for copying shall be
$0.10 per page for photocopies, $0.04 per page for computer printouts and $2.50
per audio tape. In the event materials must be reproduced by copy services or
by the Village Engineer (e.g., large plan sheets), the requestor shall be
responsible for the actual charges.
   (B)   Documents shall be furnished without charge or at a reduced charge
where the village determines that waiver or reduction of the fee is in the
public interest because furnishing information can be considered as primarily
benefitting the general public. Waiver or reduction of the fee is in the public
interest if the principal purpose of the request is to access and disseminate
information regarding the health, safety and welfare or the legal rights of the
general public and is not for the principal purpose of personal or commercial
benefit. In setting the amount of the waiver or reduction, the village may take
into consideration the amount of materials requested and the cost of copying
them.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-6)
§ 35.07 TIME LIMIT FOR COMPLIANCE WITH REQUEST.
   The village shall either comply with or deny a request for public records
within seven working days after its receipt. Denials shall be in writing and in
accordance with §
35.11 of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-7)
§ 35.08 EXTENSION OF TIME LIMIT; NOTICE.
   (A)   The time limit prescribed in §
35.07 of this chapter may be extended in each case for not more than seven
additional working days for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The requested records are stored in whole or in part at other
locations other than the office having charge of the requested records;
      (2)   The request requires the collection of a substantial number of
specified records;
      (3)   The request is couched in categorical terms and requires an
extensive search for the records responsive to it;
      (4)   The requested records require examination and evaluation by
personnel having the necessary competence and discretion to determine if they
are exempt from disclosure under the terms of the state’s Freedom of
Information Act or should be revealed only with appropriate deletions;
      (5)   The request for records cannot be complied with by the village
within the time limits prescribed by division (A)(4) above without unduly
burdening or interfering with the village;
      (6)   The requested records have not been located in the course of
routine search and additional efforts are being made to locate them; and
      (7)   There is a need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all
practicable speed, with another public body or among two or more components of
a public body having a substantial interest in the determination or in the
subject matter of the request.
   (B)   When additional time is required for any of the above reasons, the
Clerk shall notify the person making the request, by letter, within the time
limits specified in this section, of the reasons for the delay and the date by
which the records will be made available or denial will be forthcoming. In no
instance may the delay in processing last longer than seven working days. A
failure to render a decision within seven working days shall be considered a
denial of the request.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-8)
§ 35.09 UNDULY BURDENSOME REQUEST.
   (A)   Requests calling for all records falling within a category shall be
complied with unless compliance with the request would be unduly burdensome for
the village, there is no method of narrowing the request, and the burden on the
village strongly outweighs the public interest in the information. If the
village responds to a categorical request by stating that compliance would
unduly burden its operation, it shall do so in a writing signed by the Clerk
specifying the reasons why it would be unduly burdensome and the extent to
which compliance will so burden the operation of the village.
   (B)   After receipt of this response in writing, the person making the
request shall have an opportunity to reduce the request to manageable
proportions. If the person making the request fails to reduce the request to
manageable proportions, the response of the village shall be treated as a
denial of the request information.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-9)
§ 35.10 CERTAIN INFORMATION EXEMPT FROM INSPECTION AND COPYING.
   Information exempted by 5 ILCS 140/7 of the Freedom of Information Act shall
be exempt from inspection and copying. If a record contains both exempt and
non-exempt information, the exempt information shall be deleted and the
remainder of the record made available for inspection and copying.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-10)
§ 35.11 NOTICE OF DENIAL OF REQUEST; APPEALS.
   (A)   The Clerk, when denying a request for public record, shall notify the
requestor, by letter, of the decision to deny the information and the reason
for the denial. When a person’s request under the Freedom of Information Act is
denied, that person shall have the right to appeal pursuant to 5 ILCS 140/9.5.
When a request is denied on the grounds that the records are exempt under the
provisions of this chapter, the notice of denial shall specify the exemption
claimed to authorize the denial and briefly explain how the exemption applies
to the specified records withheld.
   (B)   A requestor may appeal a denial of a request for public records to the
Village President. All appeals shall be in writing, shall be addressed to the
Village President in an envelope clearly marked “FOIA APPEAL”, and shall
include a copy of the original request, a copy of the denial or a statement
that the village failed to respond within seven working days; and a written
statement setting forth the reasons the requestor believes the appeal should be
granted.
   (C)   The Village President shall respond in writing to an appeal within
seven working days of receipt thereof. Failure to respond shall be considered a
denial of the appeal. If the Village President denies an appeal in whole or in
part, the requestor shall be informed of his or her rights to judicial review
under 5 ILCS 140/11 of the Freedom of Information Act.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-11)
§ 35.12 GRANTING REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION.
   When a freedom of information request is granted, the documents will be made
available for inspection at the Village Hall during regular business hours.
Copies shall be made upon request as set forth in §
35.06 of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-12)
§ 35.13 WRITTEN REQUEST NOT REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The following documents shall be made available for inspection and
copying without a written request; however, the requestor shall contact the
Clerk or Deputy Clerk in advance to set a mutually convenient time.
   (B)   These documents, if copied, shall be subject to the copying fee set
forth in §
35.06 of this chapter:
      (1)   Ordinances and written resolutions;
      (2)   The journal of the Village Board, not including executive session
minutes; and
      (3)   Any personnel code, building code, other technical code or any
other regulation of the village adopted by the village, whether by ordinance,
resolution or otherwise.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-13)
§ 35.14 DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION ABOUT PUBLIC BODIES.
   The village shall prominently display at the Village Hall, make available
for inspection and copying without charge, and shall send through the mail if
requested, each of the following:
   (A)   A brief description of itself, which will include, but not be limited
to a short summary of its purpose, a block diagram giving its functional
subdivisions, the total amount of its operating budget, the number and location
of all of its separate offices, the approximate number of full- and part-time
employees and the identification and membership of any board, commission,
committee or council which operates in an advisory capacity relative to the
operation of the public body is required to report and be answerable for its
operations; and
   (B)   A brief description of the methods whereby the public may request
information and public records, a directory designating by titles and business
addresses those employees to whom requests for public records should be
directed, and any fees allowable under §
35.06 of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-14)
§ 35.15 LIST OF CATEGORIES OF RECORDS.
   As to public records prepared or received after the effective date of this
chapter, the Village Clerk shall maintain and make available for inspection and
copying a reasonably current list of all types or categories of records under
its control. The list shall be reasonably detailed in order to aid persons in
obtaining access to public records pursuant to this chapter. The Village Clerk
shall furnish upon request a description of the manner in which public records
stored by means of electronic data processing may be obtained in a form
comprehensible to persons lacking knowledge of computer language or printout
format.
(2007 Code, § 15-1-15)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Investment Policy
   
36.01   Policy
   
36.02   Scope
   
36.03   Prudence
   
36.04   Objective
   
36.05   Delegation of authority
   
36.06   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
36.07   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
36.08   Authorized and suitable investments
   
36.09   Collateralization
   
36.10   Safekeeping and custody
   
36.11   Diversification
   
36.12   Maximum maturities
   
36.13   Internal control
   
36.14   Performance standards
   
36.15   Reporting
   
36.16   Marking to market
Bidding and Contracting
   
36.30   Competitive bidding required
   
36.31   Formal contracting procedure
   
36.32   Notice inviting bids
   
36.33   Scope of notice
   
36.34   Bid deposits
   
36.35   Bid opening procedure
   
36.36   Rejection of bids
   
36.37   Bidders in default to village
   
36.38   Award of contract
   
36.39   Open market procedure
   
36.40   Professional services exempt from bidding requirements
   
36.41   Emergency purchases
   
36.42   Cooperative purchasing
   
36.43   Construction projects exceeding $25,000
   
36.44   Enforceable provisions
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 36.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the village to invest public funds in a manner which
will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while
meeting the daily cash flow demands of the village and conforming to all state
and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 36.02 SCOPE.
   This policy includes all funds by the Board of Trustees.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 36.03 PRUDENCE.
   (A)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances
then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital, as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the “prudent person” standard and shall be applied in the context of managing
an overall portfolio.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 36.04 OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
      (1)   Legality: conformance with federal, state and other legal
requirements;
      (2)   Safety: preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal;
      (3)   Liquidity: maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements; and
      (4)   Yield: attainment of market rates of return.
   (B)   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness
in meeting the village’s needs for safety, liquidity, rate of return,
diversification and its general performance.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 36.05 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program is
hereby delegated to the Treasurer who, under the delegation of the Board of
Trustees, shall establish written procedures for the operation of the
investment program.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-5)
§ 36.06 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to
make impartial decisions.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-6)
§ 36.07 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The Treasurer will maintain a list of financial institutions
authorized to provide investment services.
   (B)   In addition, a list will also be maintained of approved security
brokers/dealers selected by creditworthiness.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-7)
§ 36.08 AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investments may be made in any type of security allowed for in state
statutes regarding the investment of public funds.
   (B)   Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the fund
type being invested.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-8)
§ 36.09 COLLATERALIZATION.
   Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of deposit and the like)
in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some for of collateral, witnessed
by a written agreement and held at an independent third party institution in
the many of the village.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-9)
§ 36.10 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements,
entered into by the village, shall be conducted on a delivery-versus-payment
(DVP) basis. Securities will be held by an independent third-party custodian
designated by the Treasurer and evidenced by safekeeping receipts and a written
custodial agreement.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-10)
§ 36.11 DIVERSIFICATION.
   The village shall diversify its investments to the best of its ability based
on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of those funds.
Diversification can be by type of investment, number of institutions invested
in and length of maturity.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-11)
§ 36.12 MAXIMUM MATURITIES.
   (A)   To the extent possible, the village shall attempt to match its
investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a
specific cash flow, the village will not directly invest in securities maturing
more than one year from the date of purchase.
   (B)   Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding one year if the
maturity of such investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with
the expected use of the funds.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-12)
§ 36.13 INTERNAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The Treasurer is responsible for establishing and maintaining an
internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of the village
are protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal control structure shall
be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these objectives are met.
   (B)   The internal controls shall address the following points:
      (1)   Control of collusion;
      (2)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting;
      (3)   Custodial safekeeping; and
      (4)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-13)
§ 36.14 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with the parameters
specified within this subchapter. The portfolio should obtain a comparable rate
of return during a market/economic environment of stable interest rates.
Portfolio performance should be compared to benchmarks with similar maturity,
liquidity and credit quality as the portfolio.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-14)
§ 36.15 REPORTING.
   The Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least monthly. The
report should be provided to the Board of Trustees and available to the general
public on request. The report should be in a format suitable for review by the
general public. An annual report should also be provided to the Board.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-15)
§ 36.16 MARKING TO MARKET.
   A statement of the market value of the portfolio shall be issued to the
Board of Trustees quarterly.
(2007 Code, § 1-6-16)
BIDDING AND CONTRACTING
§ 36.30 COMPETITIVE BIDDING REQUIRED.
   Any work or other public improvement which is not to be paid for in whole or
in part by special assessment or special taxation, and all purchases of and
contracts for supplies, materials and services shall, except as specifically
provided herein, be based whenever possible on competitive bids.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
§ 36.31 FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE.
   All work or other public improvement which is not to be paid for in whole or
in part by special assessment or special taxation, and all purchases, orders or
contracts for supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services, except as
otherwise provided herein, when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed
$10,000, shall be purchased from the lowest responsible bidder, after due
notice inviting bids, unless competitive bidding is waived by a vote of two-
thirds of the Trustees then holding office.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
§ 36.32 NOTICE INVITING BIDS.
   (A)   Notice inviting bids shall be published at least once in a newspaper
with general circulation within the village.
   (B)   The village shall also advertise all pending work or purchases by
posting a notice on the public bulletin board in the Village Hall.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
§ 36.33 SCOPE OF NOTICE.
   The newspaper notice required herein shall include a general description of
the work to be performed or the articles to be purchased, shall state where
specifications may be secured and the time and place for opening bids.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
§ 36.34 BID DEPOSITS.
   (A)   When deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees, bid deposits shall be
prescribed in the public notices inviting bids.
   (B)   (1)   Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to the return of their
bid deposits upon the award of the contract by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit required by the
Board of Trustees upon failure on his or her part to enter into a contract
within ten days after the award.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
§ 36.35 BID OPENING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Sealed. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the village and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
   (B)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated
in the public notice.
   (C)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
Board of Trustees or by a village employee, in which event, a tabulation of the
bids shall be furnished to the Board of Trustees at its next regular meeting.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
§ 36.36 REJECTION OF BIDS.
   The village shall have the authority to reject all bids or parts of all bids
when the public interest will be served thereby.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
§ 36.37 BIDDERS IN DEFAULT TO VILLAGE.
   The village shall not accept the bid of a contractor who is in default on
the payment of taxes, licenses or other moneys due the village.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
§ 36.38 AWARD OF CONTRACT.
   (A)   Authority in village. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority
to award contracts within the purview of this section.
   (B)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interest of the
village to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the Board of
Trustees shall consider:
      (1)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
      (2)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service
promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
      (3)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
      (4)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or services;
      (5)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
      (6)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
      (7)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
      (8)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service
for the use of the subject of the contract;
      (9)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid; and
      (10)   Whether the bidder has furnished a certificate of insurance
indicating worker’s compensation and employers’ liability coverage and the
policy limits for such coverage.
   (C)   Performance bonds. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amounts as
it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the
village.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
§ 36.39 OPEN MARKET PROCEDURE.
   All work and purchases of supplies, materials and services of less than the
estimated value of $10,000 shall be made in the open market, without newspaper
advertisement and without observing the procedure prescribed by this subchapter
for the award of formal contracts.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
§ 36.40 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES EXEMPT FROM BIDDING REQUIREMENTS.
   All contracts for professional services, including, but not limited to,
attorneys, engineers, real estate appraisers and architects and any other
profession whose ethical code involved prohibits or discourages involvement in
normal bidding procedures, may be entered into by the village without observing
the bidding procedures prescribed by this subchapter for the award of formal
contracts.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
§ 36.41 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   In case of an apparent emergency which requires immediate work or purchase
of supplies, materials or services, the Board of Trustees shall be empowered to
secure by open market procedure, as herein set forth, at the lowest obtainable
price, any work, supplies, materials or services regardless of the amount of
the expenditure.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
§ 36.42 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The village shall have the authority to join with other units of government
in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of the village would be
served thereby.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/2-2-12, 5/8-9-1 and 5/8-9-2
§ 36.43 CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS EXCEEDING $25,000.
   In all contracts for the construction of new facilities, renovation of
current facilities or road projects, the estimated cost of which exceeds
$25,000, a responsible bidder is hereby defined to be a bidder who meets all of
the following applicable criteria, and submits evidence of such compliance:
   (A)   All applicable laws prerequisite to doing business in the state;
   (B)   Evidence of compliance with:
      (1)   Federal Employer Tax Identification number or Social Security
number for individuals; and
      (2)   Provision of 42 U.S.C. 21, § 2000(e), and Federal Executive Order
No. 11246, as amended by Executive Order No. 11375 (known as the “Equal
Opportunity Employer Provisions”).
   (C)   Certificate of insurance indicating the following coverages: general
liability; worker’s compensation; completed operations; automobile, hazardous
occupation and professional liability;
   (D)   Compliance with all provisions of the state’s Prevailing Wage Act, 820
ILCS 130, including wages, medical and hospitalization insurance and retirement
for those trades covered in the Act; and
   (E)   Participation in apprenticeship and training programs approved and
registered with the United States Department of Labor’s Bureau of
Apprenticeship and Training.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26)
§ 36.44 ENFORCEABLE PROVISIONS.
   Should any provision of §
36.43 of this chapter be preempted by, or be in conflict with, any rule,
policy, regulation or law adopted by, or applicable to, any governmental body,
agency or other entity providing financial support, loans, grants or other
funds related to or in support of a village project, the preempted or
conflicting provision of §
36.43 of this chapter shall be unenforceable with regard to that village
project.
(2007 Code, § 1-2-26) (Ord. 2011-08-16-1, passed 8-16-2011)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Corporate rate
   
37.02   Police tax
   
37.03   Audit tax
   
37.04   FICA tax
   
37.05   IMRF tax
   
37.06   General liability
   
37.07   School crossing guard tax
Taxpayers’ Rights Code
   
37.20   Title
   
37.21   Scope
   
37.22   Definitions
   
37.23   Notices
   
37.24   Late payment
   
37.25   Payment
   
37.26   Certain credits and refunds
   
37.27   Audit procedure
   
37.28   Appeal
   
37.29   Hearing
   
37.30   Interest and penalties
   
37.31   Abatement
   
37.32   Installment contracts
   
37.33   Statute of limitations
   
37.34   Voluntary disclosure
   
37.35   Publication of tax ordinances
   
37.36   Tax liens
   
37.37   Application
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
   
37.50   Definitions
   
37.51   Registration of telecommunications providers
   
37.52   Fee imposed
   
37.53   Collection, enforcement and administration
   
37.54   Compliance with other laws
   
37.55   Existing franchises and licenses
   
37.56   Violations
   
37.57   Enforcement
   
37.58   Waiver and fee implementation
Cross-reference:
   Finance and Revenue, see
Ch. 36
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 CORPORATE TAX.
   The maximum rate for general corporate purposes of the village be and the
same is hereby established at a rate of 0.266%.
(2007 Code, § 36-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-3-1
§ 37.02 POLICE TAX.
   The maximum rate for police protection purposes of the village be and the
same is hereby established at a rate of 0.075%.
(2007 Code, § 36-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-3
§ 37.03 AUDIT TAX.
   The Village Board may levy a municipal auditing tax upon all taxable
property in the village which will produce an amount which will equal the cost
of all auditing for the village.
(2007 Code, § 36-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-8-8
§ 37.04 FICA TAX.
   The Village Board may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the village at
whatever rate is necessary to participate in the Federal Social Security
System.
(2007 Code, § 36-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 40 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.
§ 37.05 IMRF TAX.
   The Village Board may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the village at
whatever rate is necessary to participate in the state’s Municipal Retirement
Fund.
(2007 Code, § 36-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 40 ILCS 5/7-171 et seq.
§ 37.06 GENERAL LIABILITY.
   The Village Board may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the village at
whatever rate is necessary to purchase general liability insurance for the
village.
(2007 Code, § 36-1-6)
§ 37.07 SCHOOL CROSSING GUARD TAX.
   The Village Board may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the village at
a rate of 0.02% to hire part-time school crossing guards.
(2007 Code, § 36-1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-23
TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS CODE
§ 37.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Code”.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-1)
§ 37.21 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the village’s procedures in
connection with all of the village’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-2)
§ 37.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, being 50 ILCS 451.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The village’s President and Board of Trustees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Village’s President, is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator’s stead. The
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this
code and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX.
      (1)   Each tax imposed by the village that is collected or administered
by the village not an agency or department of the state.
      (2)   It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Oreana, Macon County, Illinois.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-3)
§ 37.23 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the local tax administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons’ last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-4)
§ 37.24 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the village on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-5)
§ 37.25 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First, to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second, to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third, to the penalty for the applicable period.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-6)
§ 37.26 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows.
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that, there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the
taxpayer owes any moneys to the village.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 4% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-7)
§ 37.27 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days, nor more than
30 days, from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local
tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   (E)   (1)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village.
      (2)   If the taxpayer or tax collector fails to provide the documents
necessary for audit within the time provided, the local tax administrator may
issue a tax determination and assessment based on the tax administrator’s
determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
village’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-8)
§ 37.28 APPEAL.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-9)
§ 37.29 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
37.28 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-10)
§ 37.30 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Payment. In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due
and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid
within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   (B)   Interest. The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment or non-payment of the tax to be 10%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (C)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-11)
§ 37.31 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-12)
§ 37.32 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-13)
§ 37.33 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (B)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (C)   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the village,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
   (D)   No statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-14)
§ 37.34 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment form the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 15 per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application, but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-15)
§ 37.35 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal
or standard publishing requirements.
   (B)   The posting of a tax ordinance on the Internet shall satisfy the
publication requirements.
   (C)   Copies of all tax ordinances shall be made available to the public
upon request at the Village Clerk’s office.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-16)
§ 37.36 TAX LIENS.
   (A)   (1)   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
      (2)   Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien
is valid, the lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the local tax administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the village’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-17)
§ 37.37 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to
supplement all of the village’s tax ordinances.
   (B)   To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be controlling.
(2007 Code, § 36-3-18)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
§ 37.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS CHARGES.
      (1)   The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS CHARGES for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the village, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
the village, and charges for that portion of the interstate inter-office
channel provided within the village.
      (2)   However, GROSS CHARGES shall not include:
         (a)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
under:
            1.   The fee imposed by this subchapter;
            2.   Additional charges added to a purchaser’s bill under §§ 9-221
or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/9-221 or 5/9-222;
            3.   Amounts collected under § 8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal
Code, 65 ILCS 5/8-11-17;
            4.   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act, 35
ILCS 630;
            5.   911 surcharges; or
            6.   The tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (b)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside
the village;
         (c)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage
of data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content;
         (d)   Such equipment includes, but is not limited to, the use of
calculators, computers, data processing equipment, tabulating equipment or
accounting equipment and also includes the usage of computers under a time-
sharing agreement;
         (e)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
         (f)   Charges to business enterprises certified under § 9-222.1 of the
Public Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/9-222.1, to the extent of such exemption and
during the period of time specified by the village;
         (g)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent that the charges between the parent
corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries
represent expense allocation between the corporations and not the generation of
profit other than a regulatory required profit for the corporation rendering
such services;
         (h)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related
to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
         (i)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated
telecommunications devices; or
         (j)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided to the village.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any municipal street, alley, water or public right-of-
way dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements wherein the village has acquired the right and authority to locate or
permit the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right-of-way.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (or any like term).
Any retailer having or maintaining within the state, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within the state under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether
such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in the state.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecom- munications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of the customer’s
primary use of the telecommunications equipment, as defined by the location in
the state where bills are sent.
   TELECOMMUNICATION.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities.
      (2)   Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall also include wireless telecommunications, as hereinafter defined.
      (3)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value-added services in which
computer- processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code
and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
      (4)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications
by a telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the
service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates
or terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges, right of
access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities and all
telecommunications resold in the subsequent provisions and used as a component
of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale.
      (5)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of cable service
through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47
U.S.C. §§ 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the village
through an open video system, as defined in the rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 C.D.F. §§ 76.1550 and following), as now or
hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER.
      (1)   Any telecommunications retailer; and
      (2)   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right-of-way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER or RETAILER or CARRIER. Every person engaged in
the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined in this
section. The village may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of
business within the state, who, to the satisfaction of the village, furnishes
adequate security to ensure collection and payment of the fee. When so
authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the fee upon all of
the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and subject to the
same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business in the village.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes cellular mobile services, personal
wireless services, as defined in § 704 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(Pub. Law No. 104-104), 47 U.S.C. Ch. 5, Subchs. I, II, and VI, 42 U.S.C. § 331
(c)(7), as now or hereafter amended, including all commercial mobile radio
services, and paging services.
(2007 Code, § 36-2-1)
§ 37.51 REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Every telecommunications provider, as defined by this subchapter,
shall register with the village within 30 days after the effective date of this
subchapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a
form to be provided by the village; provided, however, that, any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to §
37.53(C) of this chapter shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with
this section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the village
pursuant to division (A) above has an affirmative duty to submit an amended
registration form or current return as required by §
37.53(C) of this chapter, as the case may be, to the village within 30 days
from the date of the occurrence of any changes in the information provided by
the telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent return
on file with the village.
(2007 Code, § 36-2-2)
§ 37.52 FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   A village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of 1% of all gross
charges charged by the telecommunications retailers to service addresses within
the village for telecommunications originating or received in the village.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this subchapter, the village infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights-of-way within the village by telecommunications retailers.
      (2)   Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under
this subchapter does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any
taxes or imposition of any fees otherwise authorized bylaw.
   (C)   The village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this section shall be collected, enforced and administered as set
forth in §
37.53 of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 36-2-3)
§ 37.53 COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer’s service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the village the infrastructure
maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in
which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that, the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed 2% of the
village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse itself for
expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the village, which shall
contain such information as the village may reasonably require.
   (D)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant
to this subchapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by
such telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the village. The charge imposed under division
(A) above by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this subchapter shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether
as a result of a mistake of f act or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this subchapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the
erroneous payment; provided, however, the village may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit. However, no claim for such credit may be made more than three years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless:
      (1)   The credit is used only to offset a claim of underpayment made by
the village within the applicable statutory period of limitations; and
      (2)   The credit derives from an overpayment made by the same
telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory period of
limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this subchapter by telecommunications retailers
shall not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as
described immediately below:
      (1)   Gross charges: for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act, 35 ILCS 630;
      (2)   Gross receipts: for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in § 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2;
      (3)   Gross charges: for purposes of the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in § 8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/8-11-17;
and
      (4)   Gross revenue: for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities in § 2-202 of the Public Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/2-202.
   (G)   The village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the
books and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this
subchapter to determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly
accounted to the village for the village infrastructure maintenance fee. Any
underpayment of the amount of the village infrastructure maintenance fee due to
the village by the telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the village,
plus 5% of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus
any costs incurred by the village in conducting the audit, in an amount not to
exceed 5% of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit. Said
sum shall be paid to the village within 21 days after the date of issuance of
an invoice for same.
   (H)   The village or his or her designee, may promulgate such further or
additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to time
and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered pursuant
to §
37.51 of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 36-2-4)
§ 37.54 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall excuse any person or entity from
obligations imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes;
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under or within, use of or repair
of the public rights-of-way, including standards relating to free standing
towers and other structures upon the public rights-of-way, as provided;
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under or within,
use of or repair of the public rights-of-way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this code or ordinances
concerning uses or structures not located on, over or within the right-of-way.
(2007 Code, § 36-2-5)
§ 37.55 EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES.
   Any franchise, license or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the village entered into before the effective date of this
subchapter regarding the use of public rights-of-way shall remain valid
according to and for their stated terms, except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extent waived.
(2007 Code, § 36-2-6)
§ 37.56 VIOLATIONS.
   Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
subject to fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of the
village municipal code.
(2007 Code, § 36-2-7)
§ 37.57 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this subchapter.
(2007 Code, § 36-2-8)
§ 37.58 WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The village hereby waives all fees, charges and other compensation
that may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the village by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing village franchise, license
or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the time the
village imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee. This
waiver shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure maintenance
fee provided for in this subchapter is subject to being lawfully imposed on the
telecommunications retailer and collected by the telecommunications retailer
from the customer.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail/
return receipt requested to each telecommunications retailer with whom the
village has a franchise.
   (C)   The village infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this
subchapter shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not
less than 90 days after the village provides written notice by certified mail
to each telecommunications retailer with whom the village has an existing
franchise, license or similar agreement that the village waives all
compensation under such existing franchise, license or similar agreement during
such time as the fee is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected by the
retailer and remitted to the village. The infrastructure maintenance fee shall
apply to gross charges billed on or after the effective date as established in
the preceding sentence.
(2007 Code, § 36-2-11) (Ord. 98-08, passed 1-12-1999)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
Rates and Regulations
   
50.01   Contract for utility services
   
50.02   Consumer lists
   
50.03   Liability for charges
   
50.04   Estimated charge
   
50.05   Utility deposits
   
50.06   Remote meters
   
50.07   Tampering with devices
RATES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.01 CONTRACT FOR UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Customer accepts service. The rates, rules and regulations contained
in this subchapter shall constitute and be considered a part of the contract
with every person, company or corporation who is supplied with water service
from the waterworks system and every person, company or corporation,
hereinafter called a “customer” who accepts and uses village water service
shall be held to have consented to be bound thereby.
   (B)   Not liable for interrupted service. The Department shall endeavor, at
all times, to provide a regular and uninterrupted supply of service, however,
in case the supply of service shall be interrupted or irregular or defective or
fail from causes beyond its control or through ordinary negligence of
employees, servants or agents, the Departments shall not be liable therefor.
   (C)   Using services without paying. Any person using water service from the
village without paying therefor, or who shall be found guilty of breaking the
seal of any meter or appurtenances, or bypassing any meter, shall be guilty of
violating this code, and upon conviction, shall be fined a sum as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Destroying property. Any person found guilty of defacing, tampering,
injuring or destroying or, in any manner, limiting the use or availability of
any meter or any property of the waterworks system, or erecting signs on the
property of the Department without permission shall, upon conviction of such
act, be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Service obtained by fraud. All contracts for water service shall be
made in the name of the head of the household, firm or corporation using the
established spelling of that person’s or firm’s name. Attempts to obtain
service by the use of other names, different spellings or by substituting other
persons or firms shall be considered a subterfuge and service shall be denied.
If service has been discontinued because of non-payment of bills, or any unpaid
obligation and service has again been obtained through subterfuge,
misrepresentation or fraud, that service shall be promptly disconnected and the
whole or such part of the advanced payment as may be necessary to satisfy the
unpaid obligation shall be retained by the village and credited to the
appropriate account.
   (F)   Failure to receive bill. Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse a
customer from his or her obligation to pay within the time specified. Should
the Department be unable to bill a customer for services used during any month,
the following billing shall include the charges for services used during the
unbilled month.
   (G)   Request to discontinue service. Services shall have been deemed to
have been supplied to any property connected to the water system during a month
unless the customer notifies the village prior to the first day of the new
billing month in which the services are to be discontinued.
   (H)   Disconnection for late payment.
      (1)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village’s form for application
for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title,
address, room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the
village official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be
authorized to order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall
have the authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $50.
   (I)   Lien notice.
      (1)   Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid for 60 days after
it has been rendered, the Clerk shall file with the county’s Recorder of Deeds
a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description
of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the
municipality claims a lien for this amount to the period covered by the bill.
      (2)   If the consumer of water service whose bill is unpaid is not the
owner of the premises and the Treasurer has notice of this, then notice shall
be mailed to the owner of the premises if his or her address is known to the
Clerk whenever such bill remains unpaid for a period of 30 days after it has
been rendered.
      (3)   The failure of the Clerk to record such lien or to mail such
notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid water bill as mentioned herein.
   (J)   Foreclosure of lien.
      (1)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid water charges may be sold for
non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in-equity in the name of the
village.
      (2)   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized to institute such
proceedings in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters against any property for which the bill for water service has
remained unpaid 90 days after it has been rendered.
(2007 Code, § 38-2-1)
§ 50.02 CONSUMER LISTS.
   (A)   It is hereby made the duty of the Clerk to prepare or cause to be
prepared a complete and accurate list of all premises and properties receiving
water service, showing the name and address of the occupant and the owner of
the same.
   (B)   The list shall be kept up-to-date, and shall be corrected from time to
time to allow changes in the occupancy or ownership of any such property or
premises.
   (C)   It shall be presented at the regular monthly meeting if requested.
(2007 Code, § 38-2-2)
§ 50.03 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The owner of any lot, parcel of land or premises and the user of the
services shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of the services
to such lot, parcel of land or premises, and all services are rendered to the
premises by the village only on the condition that such owner, occupant and
user shall be jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
(2007 Code, § 38-2-3)
§ 50.04 ESTIMATED CHARGE.
   Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair or from any cause
fails to properly register the water passing through the same, the consumer
shall be charged the average charge of the previous three-months’ usage. If no
record of the previous three months exists, then it shall be the duty of the
Water Clerk to estimate the amount of water consumed during the time the meter
fails to operate and the consumer shall be charged with such estimated amount.
Bills may be estimated whenever it is impossible to read the meters during
inclement weather.
(2007 Code, § 38-2-4)
§ 50.05 UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Property owner. A utility deposit of $100 shall be paid to the Clerk
by any applicant before any water will be turned on to any premises. The
deposit shall be retained by the village until the user discontinues water use
from the village at which time the deposit will be returned to the user;
provided, however, that, said user shall have a good payment record, making all
monthly payments timely.
   (B)   Security for payment; no interest. The deposits made under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be held by the village as security for the
payment of utility services used by the applicant upon the premises to which
his or her application pertains, and may be so applied when any default is made
in the payment in the utilities bill in accordance with this subchapter. The
depositor shall earn no interest on the deposit.
   (C)   Liability for deposit. The owner of the premises and the tenant
thereof shall be jointly and severally liable to pay the required deposit
herein established before water and sewer services shall be made available to
the tenant-occupied premises. In the case a portion of the deposit is used as
aforesaid, the tenant or owner of the premises shall immediately deposit with
the Village Clerk an amount sufficient to bring the deposit to the established
rate of deposit.
(2007 Code, § 38-2-5)
§ 50.06 REMOTE METERS.
   All existing water meters shall be equipped with a remote reading device in
accordance with a work schedule to be established by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees. All such remote devices shall be affixed to the premises of the user
at such place and in such manner as is prescribed by the Superintendent of
Waterworks and each water user so requested who does not consent in writing to
said remote device being affixed to the premises shall in lieu thereof and, in
addition to all other water charges, pay a monthly meter reading fee of $25.
(2007 Code, § 38-2-6)
§ 50.07 TAMPERING WITH DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to damage, remove,
obstruct, tamper with or deface any part of the village water system,
including, but not limited to, water mains, hydrants, pumps, buildings, wells,
meter pits, meters and remote meter reading devices.
(2007 Code, § 38-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   License required; fee
   
51.03   Application for license
   
51.04   Truck requirement; cleanliness
   
51.05   Parked garbage trucks
   
51.06   Truck wastewaters
   
51.07   Windblown garbage unlawful
   
51.08   Garbage falling from truck
   
51.09   Accumulation of garbage unlawful
   
51.10   Location of yards for equipment
   
51.11   Industry, construction and the like
   
51.12   Revocation of permit
   
51.13   Service and payment required
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food; wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   RUBBISH. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to: paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, wood furniture, bedding; non-combustible
trash, including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt,
small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery, other mineral
waste; street rubbish, including, but not limited to street sweepings, dirt,
catch-basin dirt, contents of litter receptacles; provided, however, that,
refuse shall not include earth and wastes from building operations, nor shall
it include solid wastes resulting from industrial processes and manufacturing
operations such as food processing wastes, boiler house cinders, lumber, scraps
and shavings.
   YARD WASTE. Material such as tree branches, yard trimmings, leaves and
grass.
(2007 Code, § 16-1-1)
§ 51.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person shall engage in the business as a residential or commercial
collector of garbage and rubbish unless such person shall have first made
application to and secured a license from the village.
(2007 Code, § 16-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon application for a license, the person applying for same shall
furnish the Village Clerk, along with the application, proof of insurance for
liability and property damage and, at that time, they shall file with the Clerk
a rate schedule for services to be performed for a residential application. The
rate schedule shall set forth the type of service to be offered and the price
for same, including the size and number of cans per pickup for the charge, the
charge for any extra cans, the charge for the bags, the size of the bags and
the charge for bundles and size of the bundles; also, a rate schedule shall
include an unlimited service charge; the schedule shall set forth whether this
is once-a-week or twice-a-week pickup.
   (B)   The rate schedule shall also set forth the day or days of each week
that the collector shall schedule his or her pickup within the village. The
rate schedule as filed shall be valid for one year and the licensee shall not
be permitted to increase the price on the schedule for a period of one year
from the date of filing of the rate schedule. The rate schedule shall be
effective upon approval by the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 16-1-3)
§ 51.04 TRUCK REQUIREMENT; CLEANLINESS.
   The firm that handles the collection of trash shall be of good character and
give evidence that the equipment used by him or her is adequate for the
purposes intended. The successful firm shall have a truck or trucks which shall
be so designed that garbage and rubbish that is collected will be covered at
all times, except in the loading of garbage or rubbish, so that offensive odors
are not permitted to permeate the air and cause a nuisance within the village.
The trucks and all containers in which garbage is collected and transported
shall be cleaned daily and the collector shall not collect any garbage on any
day without having a clean truck and hand containers if containers are used.
(2007 Code, § 16-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 PARKED GARBAGE TRUCKS.
   No truck carrying garbage or rubbish, or both, shall be parked or be
permitted to stand anywhere in the village, except as provided for in §
51.10 of this chapter, any longer than is necessary to pick up containers;
however, providing that, the standing of such vehicle was made necessary by
mechanical trouble, traffic conditions, accident or obedience to the direction
of police officers or traffic signals, shall not be considered a violation of
this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 16-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 TRUCK WASTEWATERS.
   A garbage truck or other equipment shall not be washed on village streets or
public property and will not be washed where the wastewaters will cause any
offensive odors to adjoining property owners.
(2007 Code, § 16-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 WINDBLOWN GARBAGE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to place garbage or rubbish in such a manner as to
allow the same to be blown by the wind onto the property of other residents.
(2007 Code, § 16-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 GARBAGE FALLING FROM TRUCK.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle any
garbage, refuse or ashes on any public street or alley in the village; provided
that, this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit placing garbage, refuse
or ashes in a container complying with the provisions of this chapter,
preparatory to having such material collected and disposed of in the manner
provided herein.
(2007 Code, § 16-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE UNLAWFUL.
   The fact that garbage or rubbish remains on an occupant’s premises in the
village in violation of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence that the
occupant of such premises is responsible for the violations of the chapter
occurring.
(2007 Code, § 16-1-9)
§ 51.10 LOCATION OF YARDS FOR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   A licensee shall designate the location of the yards on which his or
her equipment will be parked while not in use and the equipment shall not be
parked within the village limits unless the designated location shall not, in
the opinion of the code enforcement officer, create any nuisance for adjoining
property owners.
   (B)   The licensee shall have as additional equipment a truck for the
disposal of large or unusual items of rubbish which cannot be placed in the
designated containers and shall have available for such pickups such equipment
at least one day each week or on such additional days as may be necessary to
satisfy the needs of the public.
(2007 Code, § 16-1-10)
§ 51.11 INDUSTRY, CONSTRUCTION AND THE LIKE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent or regulate the hauling
of rubbish or refuse from industrial processes, from construction projects or
other matter not normally collected on a regular schedule and haulers of
rubbish not normally collected in regular collections shall be excused from the
requirements of obtaining a collector’s license as provided in this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 16-1-11)
§ 51.12 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   If the licensee fails to perform any services according to his or her
application and rate schedule, the Mayor may revoke his or her permit.
(2007 Code, § 16-1-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-19-1 et seq.
§ 51.13 SERVICE AND PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   All owners of residential and commercial premises in the village shall
subscribe to and be a customer of the licensee for garbage, rubbish and
recyclables removal for the residential or commercial area containing said
premises. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any such
owner to fail at any time to be fully and lawfully entitled to receive garbage,
rubbish and recyclables removal service from such licensee.
(Ord. 2022/03-22-1, passed 3-22-2022)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
Water Department; Water Committee
   
52.001   Department established
   
52.002   Water Committee
   
52.003   Superintendent
General Regulations
   
52.020   Application for taps and service connections to waterworks system
   
52.021   All service to be by meter
   
52.022   Inspections
   
52.023   Meter damaged
   
52.024   Damage due to interruption of service; liability
   
52.025   Resale
   
52.026   Discontinuing service; dangerous usage
   
52.027   Electric ground wires
   
52.028   Water for building or construction purposes
   
52.029   Fire hydrants
   
52.030   Limited water usage in emergencies
   
52.031   Shortage and purity of supply
   
52.032   Non-compliance with rules and regulations
   
52.033   Easements
   
52.034   Use of water on consumer’s premises
   
52.035   Removal of meters
   
52.036   Rules to become part of contract
   
52.037   Installing and maintaining service lines
   
52.038   Allocation of maintenance costs between user and village
   
52.039   Village not liable for interruption of supply
Cross-Connection Administration
   
52.050   Approved backflow device
   
52.051   Cross-connection prohibited; exception
   
52.052   Investigations by Superintendent
   
52.053   Right to enter premises
   
52.054   Notice to customer; reconnect fee
   
52.055   Contamination cost and the consumer
Cross-Connection Control Code
   
52.070   Purpose
   
52.071   Application
   
52.072   Responsibility of owner
   
52.073   Definitions
   
52.074   Water system
   
52.075   Cross-connection prohibited
   
52.076   Survey and investigations
   
52.077   Where protection is required
   
52.078   Type of protection required
   
52.079   Backflow prevention devices
   
52.080   Inspection and maintenance
   
52.081   Booster pumps
   
52.082   Violations
Extension of Mains
   
52.095   Determination of who pays expense of extension
   
52.096   Easements
   
52.097   Size and type
   
52.098   Title
   
52.099   Maintenance and replacement
Rates and Charges
   
52.110   “Building unit” defined
   
52.111   Revenues
   
52.112   Accounts
   
52.113   Access to records
   
52.114   Water tap-on fees
   
52.115   Water rates
   
52.116   Requested shut-off
Cross-reference:
   Sewer rates, see §
53.13
   Streets, see
Ch. 152
   Utilities Generally, see
Ch. 50
WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER COMMITTEE
§ 52.001 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be an executive department of the village known as the
“Waterworks Department”. It shall include the Water Superintendent and
employees of the Department. The designated office shall be the Village Hall.
(2007 Code, § 38-1-1)
§ 52.002 WATER COMMITTEE.
   The Village Board Standing Committee on Water shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the Department. It shall ascertain the
condition and needs thereof and shall, from time to time, report the same to
the Mayor and Village Board so that a full understanding thereof shall be had
and, generally, shall do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the
Department.
(2007 Code, § 38-1-2)
§ 52.003 SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Superintendent of the Water Department shall be subject to the
supervision of the Water Committee and shall be hereinafter be referred to as
the “Superintendent”. The Superintendent shall be appointed by the Mayor, by
and with the advice and consent of the Village Board and shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. He or she shall receive
such salary as may be provided by the annual budget of the Village Board at the
time of his or her appointment.
(2007 Code, § 38-1-3)
   (B)   (1)   The Superintendent shall exercise general management and control
over his or her respective Department.
      (2)   He or she shall supervise over and be responsible for the conduct
and performance of all employees of the Department.
      (3)   He or she shall be responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the village’s water system as provided in this chapter.
      (4)   He or she shall be the custodian of all vehicles, equipment,
structures and property provided by the village for the use of his or her
Department.
      (5)   He or she shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and make
such inspections, measurements and tests as necessary for that purpose.
      (6)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him
or her by the provisions of this chapter or by the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 38-1-4)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 52.020 APPLICATION FOR TAPS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS TO WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   An applicant desiring a water tap or service connection with the waterworks
system of the village shall file a written application at the Village Hall,
signed by the owner of the property for which the tap or service connection is
desired, or by the duly authorized agent of such owner. The application shall
be accompanied by payment of the fee hereinafter prescribed to cover the cost
of such service connection. In the event the application is made by an agent
for the owner, then the application shall also be accompanied by the written
authority of the owner to the agent for the making of the application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1710.png]
 
(2007 Code, § 38-3-1)
§ 52.021 ALL SERVICE TO BE BY METER.
   All water service, whether for domestic, commercial or industrial use shall
be metered. All meters shall be so placed and installed as to render the same
accessible at all times for the purpose of reading or repairing and so as to be
free from danger of freezing. Meters outside of a building shall be set in a
suitable meter box approved by the Water Committee. Water shall not be turned
on for new connections until the meter has been installed and all other
requirements of this chapter on the part of the property owner have been fully
complied with.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-2)
§ 52.022 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Access to premises. The village shall have access to all portions of
the premises of the consumer at any reasonable time for inspection of the use
of water and the consumer’s pipe, fixtures, plumbing and any other apparatus in
any manner connected to the waterworks system of the village. The village shall
have the right and option to demand change or stopping of use or to require any
repair, change, removal or improvement of any pipe, fixture, plumbing or other
apparatus that would in any manner affect the water supply or system of the
village or the supply or fixtures of other consumers.
   (B)   Meters to be open to inspection. All water meters and water fixtures,
connections and appurtenances on private property connected with the waterworks
system of the village shall be open to the inspection of the proper officers
and employees of the village at all reasonable hours.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-3
§ 52.023 METER DAMAGED.
   Whenever a meter is found to have been damaged by hot water being forced
back into it from the consumer’s hot water or heating apparatus or for any
other cause within control of the consumer, the consumer shall pay the village
for the actual cost of the removal, repair and replacement of the damaged meter
and all previous water bills shall be corrected on an estimated basis to cover
such period as it appears that the meter was out of order for such damage.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-4)
§ 52.024 DAMAGE DUE TO INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE; LIABILITY.
   All connections for the water services applied for hereunder and all
connections now attached to the present village waterworks system and all use
or service of the system shall be upon the express condition that the village
will not be liable for, nor shall any claim be made against it for, damages or
injury caused by reason of the breaking of any main, service, pipe, apparatus
or appurtenance connected with the waterworks system or for any interruption of
the supply of water by reason of the breaking of machinery or by reason of
stoppages, alterations or renewals.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-5)
§ 52.025 RESALE.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient or consumer thereof
from the village supply to any premises other than that for which application
has been made and the meter installed, except in cases of emergency.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.026 DISCONTINUING SERVICE; DANGEROUS USAGE.
   The village shall have the right to refuse water service or to discontinue
water service, without notice, at any time to any consumer if the village finds
any apparatus or appliances, the operation of which will be detrimental to the
water system of the village or to any or all of its consumers. Standpipes,
hydrants, gate valves and any other apparatus that cause water hammer or any
danger to the water system or other customer’s plumbing shall be immediately
repaired or removed upon notice from the village or, at its option, the village
may immediately discontinue service without notice and without any liability
for direct or resulting damages therefrom
(2007 Code, § 38-3-7)
§ 52.027 ELECTRIC GROUND WIRES.
   (A)   All persons are strictly forbidden to attach any electric ground wire
to any plumbing or water piping which is or may be connected to any water
service pipe, water meter or water main belonging to the village.
   (B)   The village shall hold the owner of the premises responsible and
liable for any damage to the property or injury to the employees of the village
caused by such ground wire. Any and all owners and consumers shall remove any
existing ground wires immediately upon written notice from the village. If not
so disconnected five days after notice, the village, through its officials, may
enter the property and remove such ground wires and the consumer shall pay all
costs.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-8)
§ 52.028 WATER FOR BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES.
   (A)   Applicants desiring to use water from the village waterworks system
for building or construction purposes shall make application therefor to the
Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department on a form provided by the
Water and Sewer Department for that purpose.
   (B)   Upon a permit being granted, the service pipe shall be carried at the
expense of the applicant to the inside of the curb line where a service cock
and meter shall be placed with pipe leading to the surface and a faucet placed
at the end thereof above the surface. When the building or construction is
completed, the faucet and meter shall be removed and the water shut off unless
permanent connection is made in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Charge for the use and connection of the meter shall be prescribed by the
Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-9)
§ 52.029 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All public fire hydrants with gate valves, tees and connections from
the main, inside the village limits, shall be owned, maintained and used only
by the village and shall be solely responsible for same. Use of water from fire
hydrants by contractors and others shall be only upon permission by the village
and after approved application to the village.
   (B)   The village shall not be held liable and will not assume any
responsibility for the condition of any fire hydrant inside or outside of the
village limits or the pressure or amount of water obtainable therefrom or any
damage either direct or resultant because of the condition, pressure or amount
of water available at any fire hydrant.
   (C)   All public fire hydrants located outside the village limits owned by
the village shall be maintained in as good order as reasonably possible, but
the village will not undertake or assume any responsibility or liability for
their condition or use or abuse. Such public fire hydrants shall be used only
for the purpose of extinguishing, fires except when the village may issue a
special permit for their use to contractors who shall then be responsible for
the hydrants and the use of water from them.
   (D)   The fire hydrant rental fee shall be $50 per plug per year.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-10)
§ 52.030 LIMITED WATER USAGE IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to proclaim the existence of an
emergency whenever it appears that the village water supply is inadequate for
all general uses and purposes, which proclamation shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the community and the Mayor is further
authorized to declare in similar manner the end of an emergency period.
   (B)   From and after the publication of a proclamation as provided for in
division (A) above, the following uses of water shall be prohibited:
      (1)   The washing of cars and other vehicles;
      (2)   The sprinkling of lawns and shrubbery;
      (3)   The watering of gardens;
      (4)   Other non-essential uses; and
      (5)   And it shall be unlawful for any person to so use water from the
village supply during such an emergency.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.031 SHORTAGE AND PURITY OF SUPPLY.
   The village shall not be held responsible for or in any manner liable to any
person, company, consumer or public body for any claim or damage, either direct
or resultant because of any shortage of water supply, any shutoff of water for
any reason, any bursting or leakage of either the consumer’s or village’s
mains, pipes and fixtures, any pollution or impurity in water supply or any
fire or water damage.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-12)
§ 52.032 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   If any consumer fails to comply with any of the rules and regulations in
force, the village shall notify the consumer of such failure. If the consumer
does not remedy the same as the rules provide and within a reasonable time, the
village shall have the right to discontinue service. Except in case of non-
payment, emergency, necessity or as otherwise provided, the village will not
discontinue service for violation of any rule until five days after notice has
been given and the violation has not been remedied.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-13)
§ 52.033 EASEMENTS.
   The consumer shall give such easements and rights-of-way as necessary to the
village and allow access for the purpose of construction, repair, maintenance,
meter reading, relocation or expansion of the water system. The necessity shall
be determined by the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-14)
§ 52.034 USE OF WATER ON CONSUMER’S PREMISES.
   The village shall reserve the right to use the water from the consumer’s
facilities at any time deemed necessary. No charge shall be made by the
consumer for the use of the facilities and no charge shall be made by the
village for the water used by the village.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-15)
§ 52.035 REMOVAL OF METERS.
   All meters shall remain the property of the Department and may be removed
from the customer’s premises at any time without notice for the purpose of
testing and repairing the same or upon discontinuance of service. Upon
discovery of any unlawful act by any customer or his or her agent or employee
herein prohibited or upon failure to comply with any other rules and
regulations of the Department, such service shall be disconnected.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-16)
§ 52.036 RULES TO BECOME PART OF CONTRACT.
   All of the rules and regulations concerning the use of the facilities of the
water system and the consumption of water shall be adopted and the same shall
become part of the contract with every water consumer and every water consumer
shall be considered to take water from the village, subject thereto and bound
thereby.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-17)
§ 52.037 INSTALLING AND MAINTAINING SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   The user shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of
service lines between the meter and the residence or business. Such service
lines must be at least one inch in diameter, and must be installed at a minimum
depth of four feet. Service lines must have a minimum working pressure rating
of 160 psi at 73.4°F and must be constructed of one of the following types of
materials: copper, (Type K) or other material as provided/permitted by the
state’s Plumbing Code. Service lines shall not be covered until they are
inspected and approved by the Superintendent.
   (B)   The user shall not connect any service line or any plumbing connected
with the service line to any other water source. The service line shall meet
all requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency’s rules and
regulations, the State Plumbing Code and the regulations in this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-18) (Ord. 2015/08/18-2, passed 8-18-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.038 ALLOCATION OF MAINTENANCE COSTS BETWEEN USER AND VILLAGE.
   The village shall maintain and repair all water service pipes between the
water mains and the curb lines. Any repairs to service lines or taps between
the water mains and the sidewalk or property line shall be the village’s
expense. Any repairs or renewals of water service pipes between the property
line or curb line and extending to the owner’s premises shall be made at the
sole expense of the consumer or owner of the premises.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-19)
§ 52.039 VILLAGE NOT LIABLE FOR INTERRUPTION OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   The village shall have the right to shut off the supply of water
whenever it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules or for
any notice as circumstances allow, will be given to consumers, but, in
emergencies, the water may be shut off without notice. All hot water faucets
shall be left open during any shut-off to prevent damage to plumbing. Such
necessary work will be done as rapidly as may be practical and whenever
feasible at such times as will cause the least inconvenience. The village shall
not be held responsible for or liable because of any shut-off of supply for any
direct or resultant damages to any person, company or consumer or to any pipe,
fixtures or plumbing.
   (B)   Water for steam boilers, gas engines, ice plants or other industrial
use, shall not be furnished by direct pressure from the mains, but only to
tanks holding ample reserve supply. Should any equipment be supplied direct
from mains, then in case of any shutoff of water, the village will not be held
responsible or liable for any direct or resulting damage because of interrupted
supply, insufficient pressure or otherwise.
   (C)   Whenever water mains, pipes and service connections are taken up,
shut-off or interfered with by reason of any village street improvements, the
village will endeavor to maintain service so far as reasonably possible, but
will not be directly or indirectly liable for any interruption, poor pressure
or damage of any kind either to consumers, adjacent or to other consumers
affected thereby.
   (D)   The village expressly stipulates with all its consumers and other
persons that it will not insure or be responsible or liable in any manner for
any losses, or damages, direct or resultant by reason of any fire, and all
water service furnished shall always be conditional upon acts of God,
inevitable accidents, fire, strikes, riots, war or any other cause not within
the reasonable control of the village.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-2)
CROSS-CONNECTION ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.050 APPROVED BACKFLOW DEVICE.
   All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in accordance
with the state’s Plumbing Code, 77 III Adm. Code 890. If, in accordance with
the state’s Plumbing Code or, in the judgment of the Inspector, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
supply system, the Inspector shall give notice to the water customer to install
such an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her
own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in
accordance with the state’s Plumbing Code, the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and
tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as required by the
state’s Plumbing Code, the state’s Environmental Protection Agency and local
regulations.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-21)
§ 52.051 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit
to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply other than the regular public water supply enters the supply or
distribution system of the village, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency
water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have
been approved by the Superintendent and the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.052 INVESTIGATIONS BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years
or as often as the Inspector shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys
shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least five
years.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-23)
§ 52.053 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system for the purpose of verifying the
presence or absence of cross-connections and that the Inspector or his
authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer
regarding the required cross-connection control inspection. On demand, the
owner, lessee or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
Inspector any information which he or she may request regarding the piping
system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information when demanded shall, within the discretion of the Inspector, be
evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-24)
§ 52.054 NOTICE TO CUSTOMER; RECONNECT FEE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this chapter
is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he may deem
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and until a reconnection fee of $100 is paid to the
Village Clerk.
   (B)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Inspector is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the
public water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply; provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the Inspector or the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or
pollution of the public water supply.
   (C)   The public water supply, the Inspector or the agents or assigns shall
not be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues which
may result from termination of the customer’s water supply in accordance with
the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination was with or without
notice.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-25)
§ 52.055 CONTAMINATION COST AND THE CONSUMER.
   The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, shall bear the cost of clean-up of
the potable water supply system.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-26)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL CODE
§ 52.070 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is:
   (A)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable water system and
non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-31)
§ 52.071 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the public potable
water supply system of the village.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-32)
§ 52.072 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of the
public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back-siphonage
of contaminants through the customers water service connection. If, in the
judgment of the Superintendent or his or her authorized representative, an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the Superintendent shall give notice to the consumer to
install such approved backflow prevention device at each service connection to
the premises. The consumer shall immediately install such approved device or
devices at his or her own expense; failure, refusal or inability on the part of
the consumer to install such device or devices immediately shall constitute
grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or
devices have been installed. The consumer shall retain records of installation,
maintenance, testing and repair as required in §
52.076(D) of this chapter for a period of at least five years. The
Superintendent of Water may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection
inspection report to the village to assist in determining whether or not
service line protection will be required. All cross-connection inspections
shall be conducted by a cross-connection control device inspector certified by
the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-33)
§ 52.073 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be polluted
or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or system over
which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The backflow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other
than the intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the state must meet the standards of the state’s
Plumbing Code and the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check
valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “severe”, as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD, means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the state’s Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements as set forth in the Ill. Adm. Code.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. PLUMBING
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements as set forth in the Ill.
Adm. Code for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, or
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, polytonal or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes or for fire fighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
“community water supply” or a “non-community water supply”.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.
      (1)   A device containing a minimum of two independently acting check
valves together with an automatically operated pressure differential relief
valve located between the two check valves and approved under ASSE Standard
1013. During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure
between these two checks shall be less than the supply pressure.
      (2)   In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief
valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure
between the check valves at less than the supply pressure.
      (3)   The unit must include tightly closed shutoff valves located at each
end of the device and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customers piping system The SURVEY must be in written form, and should not
be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-34)
§ 52.074 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up to the
point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-35)
§ 52.075 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited, except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the Agency.
   (C)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-36)
§ 52.076 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer’s premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request of the Superintendent, or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer’s premises. The consumer’s
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Water
for the verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his water system
through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her public
potable water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing
inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions;
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions; and
      (4)   Testing and records:
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer;
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/4
(e);
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI and type and date of repairs; and
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Serving performed and date completed.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-37)
§ 52.077 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency’s regulations as set forth in the Ill. Adm. Code. In
addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises, where, in the
judgment of the Superintendent, actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the state’s Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or system containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water, are not correctable or intricate plumbing
arrangements it make which impractical to determine whether or not cross-
connections exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history or cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency’s regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities unless the Superintendent of Water determines
that no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverages processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car washes;
      (11)   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-38)
§ 52.078 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
52.077 of this chapter shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as
follows.
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
52.077 of this chapter shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or
an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention connected to the
public water supply when:
      (1)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used
for a fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers
shall be installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply
when:
         (a)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or
other chemicals;
         (b)   Water is pumped into the system from another source; or
         (c)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source.
      (2)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (C)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-39)
§ 52.079 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-40)
§ 52.080 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) above.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-41)
§ 52.081 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-42)
§ 52.082 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice
to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not installed,
tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the Superintendent,
or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed, or if an unprotected cross- connection exists on the premises, or if
a low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not installed and
maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent, and the
required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects on conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
   (D)   Neither the village, the Superintendent, or its agents or assigns,
shall be liable to any customers of the village for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water supply in
accordance with the terms of this subchapter, whether or not said termination
of the water supply was with or without notice.
   (E)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violation.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, in
addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the village for any
expense, loss or damage occasioned by the village by reason of such violation,
whether the same was caused before or after notice.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-43)
EXTENSION OF MAINS
§ 52.095 DETERMINATION OF WHO PAYS EXPENSE OF EXTENSION.
   The Village Board shall first determine if an extension of water main is
economically feasible based on the estimated cost of the extension and the
number of existing potential users that will use water along the extension. If
the extension is economically feasible, then the village may install and pay
the cost of the extension at the discretion of the Village Board. If the
village elects not to pay the cost of extending the water main then the person
or persons desiring water service shall install the extension at their own
personal expense upon written consent by the Village Board. The village shall
not pay for any extensions to an undeveloped area, such as a subdivision being
developed, unless there are sufficient existing residents or businesses to make
the extension economically feasible.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-53)
§ 52.096 EASEMENTS.
   Applicants for main extensions shall deliver, without cost to the village,
permanent easements or right-of-way when necessary for the installation and
maintenance of the extensions or subsequent additions thereto. The village
shall not be obligated to authorize any construction until all requirements of
this chapter have been met.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-54)
§ 52.097 SIZE AND TYPE.
   The village reserves the right to determine and specify the diameter and
type of pipe required to provide the service requested, and subject to the
requirements of municipal authorities, its location within or without the
limits of a street. The village further reserves the right to install a main
larger in diameter than the main required to render the service requested, in
which case, the village will pay the difference in cost.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-55)
§ 52.098 TITLE.
   (A)   Title to all main extensions shall be vested in the village and the
village shall have the right to further extend any main installed in and to
other streets or premises without repayment or refund to any applicant.
   (B)   However, the village reserves the right to consider extensions made at
the applicant’s expense and without written agreement as to service lines.
   (C)   Upon such lines, the village will set a meter at the beginning of the
extension to measure all water used and title to the line beyond the meter will
be vested in the customer who shall be responsible for maintenance and
replacement, when necessary.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-56)
§ 52.099 MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT.
   The village, at its own expense, shall maintain and when necessary, replace
the village owned mains used to supply water to its customers and, if adequate
service requires the reconstruction or replacement of such mains, the mains
shall be reconstructed or replaced by the village at its expense.
(2007 Code, § 38-3-57)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.110 “BUILDING UNIT” DEFINED.
   All persons or families residing in a building under one roof, be it an
apartment or homes converted into more than one dwelling place, each family or
individual resident residing therein shall be deemed an individual customer or
such homes or apartments or dwellings shall be billed for at least one minimum
water account according to the number of families or individual residents
residing therein.
(2007 Code, § 38-4-1)
§ 52.111 REVENUES.
   (A)   (1)   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the water
system shall be deposited in the Water Fund.
      (2)   All such revenues and moneys shall be held by the Treasurer
separate and apart from his or her private funds and separate and apart from
all other funds of the village and all of said sum, without any deductions
whatever, shall be delivered to the Treasurer not more than ten days after
receipt of the same, or at such more frequent intervals as may, from time to
time, be directed by the Village Board.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the water system
and all other funds and moneys incident to the operation of such system as the
same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in the account of the
fund designated as the “Water Fund of the Village”.
   (C)   The Treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the
manner provided by 65 ILCS.
(2007 Code, § 38-4-2)
§ 52.112 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the water system and, at regular
annual intervals, he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the
water system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the sewer
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts required to be
recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do, in fact, meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons sold at the water plant for the
current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of non-metered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic wastes (industrial users)
and volume of waste discharged.
(2007 Code, § 38-4-3)
§ 52.113 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The state’s Environmental Protection Agency, United States Environmental
Protection Agency or its authorized representative shall have access to any
books, documents, papers and records of the village which are applicable to the
village’s system of user charges for the purpose of making audit, examination,
excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the
special and general conditions to any state grant.
(2007 Code, § 38-4-4)
§ 52.114 WATER TAP-ON FEES.
   (A)   Inside village. Applicants for water service inside the village shall
pay a charge of $2,500, plus the actual cost of the meter, vaults and fittings.
Tapping of the main shall only be performed by the village or its contractor
after the tapping fee has been received by the village.
   (B)   Outside village. Applicants for water service outside the village
limits shall pay the same fees as stated in division (A) above.
   (C)   Illinois Plumbing Code. All water tap and service connections made to
the mains of the waterworks system of the village shall conform to the
regulations of this chapter and of the state’s Plumbing Code. All connections
and installations shall be made by the village’s Water and Sewer Department.
   (D)   Maintenance of water lines. The village shall replace all water mains
when it has been deemed necessary to do so in order to maintain service in the
village. The village shall limit its responsibility to maintaining water lines
to the water mains and to the service lines up to the meter. The property owner
shall be responsible for the service line from the meter into the premises
served.
(2007 Code, § 38-4-10) (Ord. 2017-01-17-1, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 52.115 WATER RATES.
   There shall be established the following rates and charges for the use of
the water system of the village, based upon the amount of water consumed as
follows.
   (A)   Water rates inside or outside the village.
      (1)   First 1,000 gallons per month: $32.12 minimum charge; and
      (2)   Over 1,000 gallons per month: $12.95 per each additional thousand
gallons, pro-rated to actual usage.
   (B)   Bulk sales. Per 1,000 gallons: $12.95 per 1,000 gallons.
   (C)   Annual increase. There will be a 5% annual increase in all water rates
effective January 1, 2026 and January 1 of each year thereafter. In addition to
the annual increase, in the event the village's water supplier increases their
per gallon charge, the per 1,000 gallon rates in divisions (A) and (B) will
automatically increase in the same amount per 1,000 gallons.
(2007 Code, § 38-4-11) (Ord. 95-04, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 2016/07/19-2, passed
7-19-2016; Ord. 2018/10-16-1, passed 10-16-2018; Ord. 2021/01-19-02, passed 1-
19-2021; Ord. 2024/11/19-1, passed 11-19-2024)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer rates, see §
53.13
§ 52.116 REQUESTED SHUT-OFF.
   If user requests water to be shut off, there will be a $50 fee to have the
water turned on again.
(2007 Code, § 38-4-12)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
   
53.01   Authority
   
53.02   Purpose
   
53.03   Applicability
   
53.04   Definitions
   
53.05   Use of sewer required
   
53.06   Private sewage disposal systems
   
53.07   Permits required
   
53.08   Construction, operation and maintenance
   
53.09   Inspections and testing
   
53.10   Use of public sewers
   
53.11   Protection of POTW from damage
   
53.12   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
53.13   Sewer rates
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority granted by 65 ILCS Chapter 11/
147.
(Ord. 2011-04-19-01, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 53.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the use of public and private
sewers and drains, private sewage disposal, the installation and connection of
building sewers, the discharge waters and wastes into the public sewer system
and provide penalties for violations thereof within the village.
(Ord. 2011-04-19-01, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 53.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to all public and private property within the village
and any area under the jurisdiction of said village.
(Ord. 2011-04-19-01, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 53.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Oreana.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standards laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter in accordance with 40
C.F.R. part 136, as amended.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building
wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Transit lodging, retail and wholesale establishments or
places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the MANHOLE shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the village and the
Sanitary District of Decatur representative to sample and/or measure
discharges.
   DISTRICT. The Sanitary District of Decatur.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Schools, churches, penal institutions and
users associated with federal, state and local governments.
   INTERFERENCE. A Discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the Clean
Water Act being 33 U.S.C. § 1345; the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA)
(including Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA) being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.; and including state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
Subtitle D of the SWDA) being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq., the Clean Air Act
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act being 15
U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act
being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the state’s Environmental Protection Agency to regulate the discharge of
pollutants pursuant to 35 Ill. Adm. Code 309.
   ORDINANCE. This chapter.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation).
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136 as amended.
   POTW or PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS. A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.), owned by the SDD. This definition includes any devices and systems
used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage
or industrial wastes of a liquid nature that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant regardless of ownership, but does not include sewer, pipes and
other conveyances not connected to the POTW treatment plant. The term also
means SDD, which has jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the
discharges from such a treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include, sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary, even though those sewers may not have been constructed with village
funds.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances, which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments and permanent multi-family dwellings.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU. Any discharger that:
      (1)   Is subject to a categorical pretreatment standard under 40 C.F.R.
part 403;
      (2)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day of process
wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewaters);
      (3)   Discharges an amount constituting 5% or more of the average dry-
weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the treatment plant; or
      (4)   Is designated as such by the POTW on the basis that the industrial
user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or
for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with 40
C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6)).
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows normal operation and shall adversely affect the
performance of the village or District POTW.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established herein.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TSS. Solids that either float, on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are
removable by a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of
SUSPENDED SOLIDS shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in 40
C.F.R. part 136 as amended.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Oreana.
   WASTEWATER.
      (1)   The spent water of a community.
      (2)   From this standpoint of course, it may be a combination of the
liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants and institutions, together with any ground water, surface
water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.
      (1)   An arrangement of devices and structures for treating wastewater,
industrial wastes and sludge.
      (2)   Sometimes used as synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of the
state, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 302.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 2011-04-19-01, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 53.05 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or any area under the jurisdiction of said village any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and an NPDES permit has
been issued by the state’s Environmental Protection Agency for the discharge.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all the houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the village
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary sewer of the village, is
hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 210 calendar days
after official notice to do so; provided that, said public sewer is within 200
feet of the property line.
      (1)   All costs and expenses incident to the construction and
installation of the building sewer and connection of the building sewer to the
public sewer shall be borne by the owner of the building.
      (2)   The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building
sewer or connection of the building sewer to the public sewer.
(Ord. 2011-04-19-01, passed 4-19-2011) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
53.05(D) of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   (1)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by an authorized
representative of the village and a permit from the county’s Health Department.
      (2)   No permit fee shall be paid to the village.
   (C)   The applicant for the permit shall notify an authorized representative
of the village when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (D)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the county’s Health
Department.
   (E)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 90 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be abandoned in accordance with applicable provision of the state’s
Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 2011-04-19-01, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 53.07 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the village.
   (B)   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful, except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Act, more stringent state and local standards and more stringent
Sanitary District of Decatur standards.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential wastewater service; and
         (b)   To commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial
wastewater service.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or the owner’s agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the village.
   (D)   A fee of $1250 applies to permit applications filed with an authorized
representative of the village greater than 120 days after notice of public
sewer system availability is provided to property owners. This fee includes the
fee associated with the first construction inspection required under §
53.09(A) of this chapter.
   (E)   A fee of $50 applies to permit applications filed within and including
the one hundred twentieth day after notice of public sewer system availability
is provided to property owners. This fee includes the fee associated with the
first construction inspection required under §
53.09(A) of this chapter.
   (F)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   (G)   Building sewer permits shall expire 90 calendar days after the date of
issuance.
(Ord. 2011-04-19-01, passed 4-19-2011) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The state’s Plumbing Code is hereby adopted by reference and shall
have the scope, authority and applicability as therein set out, except as
modified by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Environment Federation/ASCE Manual
of Practice No. 9 and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
   (C)   The following standards are hereby adopted by the village in
modification and/or amplification to the provisions of the state’s Plumbing
Code.
      (1)   Building sewers.
         (a)   A building sewer shall be constructed of the following
materials, unless prior authorization is given by an authorized representative
of the village:
            1.   Schedule 40 PVC solvent weld pipe (ASTM D 1785 or D 2665).
Alternative materials may be approved by an authorized representative of the
village if circumstances warrant;
            2.   No less than four inches in diameter;
            3.   Installed, connected and/or jointed using colored primer/glue
(example: purple); and
            4.   Cleanouts shall be full size and of two way all hub design or
an equivalent constructed onsite.
         (b)   A building sewer shall be constructed in the following manner,
unless prior authorization is given by an authorized representative of the
village:
            1.   At a minimum slope of one-eighth inch per foot;
            2.   Bedded in and backfilled to above the top of the pipe with
sand;
            3.   Common trenches are prohibited without prior approval of an
authorized representative of the village;
            4.   The first cleanout shall be installed within five feet of the
building foundation, inside or outside, in direct line with the building drain.
Cleanouts shall be installed thereafter at intervals of not more than 50 linear
feet and as necessary for the service to be properly maintained;
            5.   Any change in horizontal direction greater than 45 degrees is
prohibited without prior approval of an authorized representative of the
village; and
            6.   No change in horizontal direction may be located within 36
linear inches of another change in horizontal direction
         (c)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
and/or new connections to the public sewer when tested according to §
53.09 of this chapter.
         (d)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved in accordance with division (B) above and discharged to the
building sewer.
      (2)   Connections to public sewer.
         (a)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the state’s Pluming Code and local rules and
regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Environment
Federation/ASCE Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard Specifications for Water
and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.
         (b)   All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight.
Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by
the village before installation.
      (3)   Excavations.
         (a)   Excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades so as to protect the public from hazard.
         (b)   No part of the excavation shall be filled and no portion of the
building sewer shall be covered until it has been inspected and accepted by the
village under §
53.09 of this chapter.
         (c)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed
in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
village.
(Ord. 2011-04-19-01, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 53.09 INSPECTIONS AND TESTING.
   Representatives of the village, the Sanitary District of Decatur, the
state’s Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency have the authority to enter all properties for the purpose of
testing and inspection.
   (A)   Inspection.
      (1)   All building sewers and connections to the public sewer shall be
inspected by an authorized representative of the village to ensure compliance
with §
53.08 of this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant for the building
sewer permit to provide at least 24 hours advance notice to an authorized
representative of the village when the building sewer and/or connection to
public sewer is ready for inspection.
      (3)   Inspections shall be performed and inspection fees shall be imposed
in the following manner:
         (a)   One initial construction inspection shall be performed within 24
hours after notice is provided under division (A)(2) above, the associated fee
for which is included in the building sewer permit application fee specified in
§
53.07(D) or (E) of this chapter.
         (b)   A re-inspection fee of $50 shall be assessed against the
applicant for a building sewer permit who has requested an inspection that
cannot be completed or approved by an authorized representative of the village
for any of the following reasons:
            1.   The work for which the inspection has been requested is not
installed or completed to the extent that an inspection can be made;
            2.   The inspection reveals violations of §
53.08 of this chapter;
            3.   The Inspector is unable to gain entry to the premises, if
required, at the time requested by the contractor; and
            4.   When previously noted violations have not been corrected.
         (c)   Fees assessed under division (A)(3)(b) above shall be paid in
full prior to the performance of subsequent inspections.
   (B)   Testing.
      (1)   All portions of an existing building sewer drain beyond the
foundation line shall be tested for leakage and passed before being used for
the new building sewer service.
      (2)   The testing shall be in accordance with the state’s Plumbing Code §
890.1930(f).
      (3)   No testing is required if the exterior building sewer is replaced
with new materials to the foundation wall.
      (4)   Testing shall be performed by the individual performing the work
and witnessed by the village’s Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 2011-04-19-01, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 53.10 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior or
interior foundation drains, including basement sump pumps, areaway drains or
other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building
drain, which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary
sewer.
   (B)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage including
basement sump pumps, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial
process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the village. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged on approval of the village, to a storm sewer, combined
sewer, or natural outlet provided an NPDES permit has been issued by the
state’s Environmental Protection Agency for the discharge.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes that will enter into any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the POTW; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with proper
operation of the POTW such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud,
straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground
garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper
dishes, cup, milk containers and the like, either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the village or Sanitary District of Decatur that such wastes can
harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property or constitute a nuisance. In forming their opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the village and Sanitary District of Decatur
will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatablitity of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The substances
prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 104°F (40°C);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials;
      (3)   Oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between 32° and 104°F (40°C);
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of one horsepower or
greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the village;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not;
      (6)   The discharge of any waters or wastes or wastewater constituent
concentrations that are prohibited under applicable ordinances adopted or
amended by of the Sanitary District of Decatur;
      (7)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of §
53.11 of this chapter;
      (8)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration not removed in the treatment process
(such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the POTW; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of water constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (F)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (E)(9) above and/or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 C.F.R. part 403, 6-
26-1978 and any amendments thereto and which, in the judgment of the Sanitary
District of Decatur, may have a deleterious effect upon the POTW, processes,
equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the Sanitary District of Decatur may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of division (J) below. If the Sanitary District of Decatur permits the
pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the
plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Sanitary District of Decatur and subject to the requirements of all applicable
codes, ordinances and laws.
   (G)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the village and/or Sanitary District of Decatur they are necessary
for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive
amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except
that, such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the Department of Public Health, Sanitary District of Decatur and the village
and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   (H)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (I)   When required by the Sanitary District of Decatur or village, the
owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes
shall install a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters
and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be
accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans
approved by the agency requiring the installation of the manhole. The manhole
shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s expense and shall be maintained
by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (J)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
water and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village, Sanitary District of
Decatur or other regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge.
The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed by the
owner shall be as stipulated by the Sanitary District of Decatur or village.
When required the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state
and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the Sanitary District of Decatur or
village at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the agency requiring
the analyses. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses,
and reporting required by the Sanitary District of Decatur or village including
the cost of analyses by the Sanitary District of Decatur. At such times as
deemed necessary the Sanitary District of Decatur and village reserve the right
to take measurements and samples for analyses by an outside laboratory service.
   (K)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of 40 C.F.R. § 136.3 as amended, and shall
be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken
at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required
the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in
the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the
effect of constituents upon the POTW and to determine the existence of hazards
to life, limb, and property. The particular analyses involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always,
BOD, ammonia nitrogen and suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour
composites of all outfalls, whereas pH is determined from periodic grab
samples.
   (L)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the Sanitary District
of Decatur, village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the Sanitary District of
Decatur for treatment.
(Ord. 2011-04-19-01, passed 4-19-2011) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11 PROTECTION OF POTW FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment, which
is a part of the POTW. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to
immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 2011-04-19-01, passed 4-19-2011) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.12 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The duly authorized employees of the village, Sanitary District of
Decatur, the state’s Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all properties for purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The POTW shall inspect the facilities of all industrial users to
ascertain whether the purposes of this chapter are being met and if all
requirements of this chapter are being complied with, at a minimum of two times
per year. It is a condition of all permits issued under this chapter that all
persons or occupants of premises in which a discharge source or treatment
system is located or in which records are kept shall allow the POTW or its
representative ready access upon presentation of credentials at reasonable
times to all parts of said premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination and photocopying of records required to be kept by this chapter and
in the performance of any of their duties. The POTW shall have the right to set
up on the industrial user’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling, monitoring and metering operations. Where an industrial user has
security measures in force which would require suitable identification,
necessary arrangements shall be made with their security personnel so that upon
presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the POTW shall be
permitted to enter immediately for the purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities. Such arrangements shall be made by all industrial users with
their security personnel within 30 days of the passage of this chapter.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the authorized employees of the village, the Sanitary
District of Decatur, the state’s Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the village or Sanitary District of Decatur employees
and the village or Sanitary District of Decatur shall indemnify the company
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operating, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain conditions as required in §
53.10 of this chapter.
   (C)   The duly authorized employees of the village and Sanitary District of
Decatur bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the village and Sanitary District of
Decatur holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited
to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of
any portion of the POTW lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 2011-04-19-01, passed 4-19-2011)
§ 53.13 SEWER RATES.
   There shall be established the following rates and charges for the use of
the water system of the village, based upon the amount of water consumed as
follows.
   (A)   Sewer rates inside village.
      (1)   Minimum charge per user per month: $39.
      (2)   Usage charge per 1,000 gallons per month: $2.32 per each additional
thousand gallons, pro-rated to actual usage.
   (B)   Annual increase. There will be a 3% annual increase in the sewer usage
charge, effective July 1, 2021 and July 1 of each year thereafter.
(Ord. 2014/05/230-1, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 2021/01-19-02, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter,
except §
53.11 of this chapter, shall be served by the village with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. The village or
Sanitary District of Decatur may revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a
result of any violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and on,
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $1,000 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village by reasons of such violation.
(Ord. 2011-04-19-01, passed 4-19-2011)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
      
72.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   State Vehicle Code; definitions adopted
   
70.02   Obedience to police
   
70.03   Scene of fire
   
70.04   Unauthorized signs
   
70.05   Interference with signs or signals
   
70.06   Advertising signs
   
70.07   Citation form
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Vehicle Code, see 625 ILCS
§ 70.01 STATE VEHICLE CODE; DEFINITIONS ADOPTED.
   The State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq., entitled “Title and
Definitions”, as passed, approved and amended by the state’s General Assembly,
is hereby adopted by the village, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the village.
(2007 Code, § 24-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2 and 5/11-1-1
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department, special police and auxiliary police
assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police
officer.
   (B)   Except in cases of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(2007 Code, § 24-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-203
§ 70.03 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command, or any firefighter designated by him
or her, may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as the Fire Department equipment is on the scene
in the absence of or in assisting the Police Department.
(2007 Code, § 24-2-2)
§ 70.04 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street, any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, fight, reflector or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-
control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic, nor shall any person place, maintain or display upon or in
view of any street any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the
movement of traffic or effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place, or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising.
   (B)   No tree, bush or foliage of any kind shall be so placed, maintained,
allowed to remain or be displayed upon either public or private property in
such a manner as to hide from view or interfere with the movement of traffic or
the effectiveness of any traffic-control device, sign or signal.
(2007 Code, § 24-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(2007 Code, § 24-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain, anywhere in the village, any sign,
signal, marking or device other than a traffic sign or signal authorized by the
Village Board or the state’s Department of Transportation, which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal in view of any street or highway, and it shall be
unlawful to place or maintain any sign which hides from view any lawful
traffic-control device.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any flashing or rotating
beacon of light in view of any street or highway.
(2007 Code, § 24-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.07 CITATION FORM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1712.png]
 
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Vehicle equipment
   
71.02   Engine braking systems
Stop and Through Streets
   
71.15   Through streets
   
71.16   One-way streets or alleys
   
71.17   Stop streets
   
71.18   Yield right-of-way streets
   
71.19   Posting signs
Driving Rules
   
71.30   State Vehicle Code; rules of the road adopted
   
71.31   Driving rules
   
71.32   Loud stereos and the like
   
71.33   Excessive noise
Parking Rules
   
71.45   Time limit parking
   
71.46   Parking for sale or repair
   
71.47   Private property
   
71.48   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
   
71.49   Parking for the disabled
   
71.50   Towing cars away
   
71.51   Prima facie proof
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking Schedules, see
Ch. 75
   Traffic Schedules, see
Ch. 74
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/12-100 et seq., entitled “Equipment
of Vehicles”, as passed, approved and amended by the state’s General Assembly,
is hereby adopted by the village and the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the corporate limits of the village.
(2007 Code, § 24-5-1)
   (B)   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle
is provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition and the use of
a cut-out is prohibited. No muffler shall cause an unreasonably loud or
excessive noise.
(2007 Code, § 24-5-2)
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-602, 5/12-605.1 and 5/12-605.2
§ 71.02 ENGINE BRAKING SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The village’s Board of Trustees may designate portions of roadways
located within the village in which the use of engine braking systems by
commercial vehicles is prohibited. This authority shall extend to all streets
located within the village, including, but not limited to, those roadways under
federal, state or county jurisdiction.
   (B)   This authority may be applied in the following cases:
      (1)   On designated portions of roadways located within residential
zoning districts;
      (2)   On designated portions of roadways in which at least one-third of
the land uses abutting the roadway are residential;
      (3)   On roadways located within 1,000 feet of a hospital, school
courthouse or similar facility; and
      (4)   On other roadways in which the Board of Trustees reasonably
determines that the use of engine braking systems unreasonably interferes with
the lawful use and enjoyment of nearby property or otherwise is unreasonably
detrimental to public health or safety. In order to provide an appropriate
buffer to the foregoing areas and uses, the Board of Trustees may also prohibit
the use of engine braking systems by commercial vehicles within 500 feet of
that portion of a roadway approaching an area described above in divisions (B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) above.
   (C)   The Board of Trustee shall cause signs to be posted conforming to IDOT
specifications duly informing the operators of commercial vehicles of the
prohibition of the use of engine braking systems. The signs shall state:
“EXCESSIVE ENGINE BRAKING NOISE PROHIBITED”.
   (D)   The term COMMERCIAL VEHICLE shall have the definition set forth in 625
ILCS 5/1-111.8, as amended.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the use of an engine braking system
that has an adequate sound muffling system in proper working order that
prevents excessive noise.
   (F)   It is a defense to this section that the operator of a commercial
vehicle used an engine braking system that emits excessive noise in an
emergency to avoid a collision with a person or another vehicle on the roadway.
(Ord. 2016/05/17-2, passed 5-17-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
STOP AND THROUGH STREETS
§ 71.15 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The streets and parts of streets of the village designated by
ordinance as “through streets” are hereby declared to be through streets.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street
and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard unless directed otherwise by the traffic
officer.
(2007 Code, § 24-3-1)
§ 71.16 ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys
designated as one-way streets or alleys by ordinance in any direction other
than that so designated.
(2007 Code, § 24-3-2) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-208
§ 71.17 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to ordinance at one or more
entrances thereto and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles not so
obliged to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is
controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event, the directions of the
police officer shall be complied with. See Ch. 74, Schd. I, of this code of
ordinances for stop streets.
(2007 Code, § 24-3-3) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-302
§ 71.18 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, in obedience to such sign,
shall slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and if
required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
(2007 Code, § 24-3-4) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 POSTING SIGNS.
   Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through, stop and yield right-
of-way streets, all one-way streets and alleys and all stop intersections.
(2007 Code, § 24-3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-304
DRIVING RULES
§ 71.30 STATE VEHICLE CODE; RULES OF THE ROAD ADOPTED.
   The State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-100 et seq., entitled “Rules of the
Road”, as passed, approved and amended by the state’s General Assembly, is
hereby adopted by the village and the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the village, except for the following changes,
deletions and omissions:
   (A)   Omissions. Omit §§ 11-207, 11-208.1, 11-208.2, 11-209.1, 11-302, 11-
303, 11-310(f), 11-313, 11-401 to and including 11-416, 11-500, to and
including 11-502, 11-602, 11-603, 11-604, 11-606(b), 11-608, and 11-1422; and
   (B)   Changes and additions.
      (1)   Change 11-904(a) to read: “Preferential right-of-way at an
intersection maybe indicated by stop or yield signs as authorized by this
Code.”; and
      (2)   Change 11-1416(a) to read: “Any person who shall willfully and
unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other person in lawfully
driving and traveling upon or along any highway within this state or who shall
offer for barter or sale, merchandise on said highway so as to interfere with
the effective movement of traffic shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
violation of this code.”
(2007 Code, § 24-4-1)
§ 71.31 DRIVING RULES.
   (A)   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker. Traffic-control
signals, signs or markers owned by the village shall be possessed only by the
village employees, police officers, contractors or their employees engaged in
highway construction, contract or work upon the roadways or public ways
approved by the village. No person shall possess a traffic-control signal, sign
or marker owned by the village, except as provided in this division (A),
without the prior written authority of the village. It shall be a violation of
this traffic code for a person to possess such a traffic-control signal, sign
or marker without lawful authority.
   (B)   General speed restrictions. The speed limits on the various streets
shall be approved by the Village Board.
   (C)   Special speed limit while passing schools.
      (1)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20
mph while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any public thoroughfare
on or across which children pass going to and from school during school days
when school children are present.
      (2)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and maintained by the village or state wherein the school
zone is located.
   (D)   U-turns prohibited. No driver of a vehicle shall make a U-turn on any
street or at any intersection of any streets in the village.
(2007 Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-1 and 625 ILCS 5/11-313, 5/11-604
and 5/11-605
§ 71.32 LOUD STEREOS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall permit loud stereos, radios, compact discs or electronic
devices that create noise or sound beyond the immediate perimeter of the motor
vehicle.
(2007 Code, § 24-4-3) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.33 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   Stopped vehicle. No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor
vehicle is stopped, unreasonably accelerate the engine thereof with the gears
of the vehicle in neutral, thereby causing an unreasonably loud or excessive
noise.
(2007 Code, § 24-4-4)
   (B)   Wheels. No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor vehicle
is stopped, accelerate the engine with the gears of such vehicle in neutral
and, while so accelerating the engine, shift the gears of the vehicle into a
forward or reverse movement, thereby causing an unreasonably loud noise with
the drive wheels of the vehicle.
(2007 Code, § 24-4-5)
   (C)   Squealing tires. No operator of a motor vehicle shall cause the wheels
of such vehicle to spin violently, thereby causing an unreasonably loud or
excessive noise.
(2007 Code, § 24-4-6)
   (D)   Excessive noise while driving. No operator of a motor vehicle shall,
when operating the vehicle, accelerate the vehicle or rapidly stop the vehicle
causing an unreasonably loud noise.
(2007 Code, § 24-4-7)
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-505
PARKING RULES
§ 71.45 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of
the amount of time designated by law and so posted.
(2007 Code, § 24-6-1) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.46 PARKING FOR SALE OR REPAIR.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except when emergency
repairs are necessary.
(2007 Code, § 24-6-2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.47 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
(2007 Code, § 24-6-3) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.48 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control devices, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways or a divided highway, including
crossovers;
         (l)   In any alley that is open and maintained; and/or
         (m)   Within ten feet of mailboxes in residential areas.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pickup or discharge passengers):
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance (when properly sign-posted); and/or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing or parking.
      (3)   Parking a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers):
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (b)   At anyplace where official signs prohibit parking; and/or
         (c)   In yellow zones.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
   (C)   
Ch. 75, Schd. III, of this code of ordinances shall list all applicable no
parking zones.
   (D)   No person shall park any vehicle, vehicles or trailer the length of
which exceeds 20 feet or any Second Division vehicle licensed for an “F”
classification or higher:
      (1)   Upon any street, alley or any public way within the village, except
for the purpose and time period reasonably necessary to load and unload the
same; and/or
      (2)   Upon public or private property within the village with the motor
running for a continuous period in excess of 30 minutes.
(2007 Code, § 24-6-4) (Ord. 2020/08-18-1, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 PARKING FOR THE DISABLED.
   (A)   Designated parking. Certain parking spaces within the confines of the
village shall be designated for use by disabled persons’ vehicles only and will
be posted with appropriate signs to that effect.
   (B)   Use of designated disabled parking. The use of designated disabled
parking locations, duly posted and signed shall to that effect, be open to any
vehicle which bears the appropriate disabled state registration plate issued by
the Secretary of State for Illinois, or a valid disabled parking permit issued
by another governmental agency or which bears a disabled card furnished in
accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1 et seq. furnished by the village.
   (C)   Application for state disabled registration plate. The issuance of a
state disabled motor vehicle registration plate shall be made with the
Secretary of State of Illinois at any facility provided and approved for that
purpose by the Secretary of State.
   (D)   Disabled parking areas. Those places designated as “disabled parking
spaces” are listed in
Ch. 75, Schd. II, of this code of ordinances.
(2007 Code, § 24-6-6) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2
§ 71.50 TOWING CARS AWAY.
   The Police Department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service, any car, boat, trailer or other vehicle illegally
parked in anyplace where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic
hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the
movement of any emergency vehicle; or any vehicle which has been parked in any
public street or other public place for a period of 24 hours.
(2007 Code, § 24-6-7)
§ 71.51 PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   The fact that a vehicle which is illegally parked or operated is registered
in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person
was in control of the vehicle at the time of such violation.
(2007 Code, § 24-6-8)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked in violation of §
71.49 of this chapter in a posted designated disabled space which does not bear
a state disabled registration plate or a valid disabled parking permit issued
by another governmental agency of a village disabled registration card will be
ticketed and the vehicle will be removed in accordance with departmental
policies and in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-1302. The registered owner of the
vehicle as ascertained by the registration plates of the vehicle will be
presumed to be in control of the vehicle and will be fined $100. If the
disabled space is posted, then the penalty shall be $200. The same registered
owner will be held liable for the cost of removal of the vehicle and must pay
that cost, plus storage charges, if any, prior to the release of the vehicle.
(2007 Code, § 24-6-5)
CHAPTER 72: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Abandonment of vehicles
   
72.03   Leaving vehicles on streets
   
72.04   Wrecked or discarded vehicles; disposition
   
72.05   Unlicensed vehicles; storage
   
72.06   Vehicles for sale
   
72.07   Removal
   
72.08   Inoperable vehicle notice
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the village which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery, and shall include, without
limitations, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, bus, buggy and
wagon.
(2007 Code, § 24-7-1)
§ 72.02 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the village and no person shall
leave any vehicle at anyplace within the village for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
(2007 Code, § 24-7-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 LEAVING VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked or
junked vehicle on any street or highway with the village, nor shall any person
allow any vehicle to remain on any village property, street or highway while it
is offered for sale.
(2007 Code, § 24-7-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 WRECKED OR DISCARDED VEHICLES; DISPOSITION.
   No person in charge of or control of any property within the village,
whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any
partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to
remain on such property longer than 30 days; and no person shall leave any such
vehicle on any property within the village for longer than 30 days; except
that, this chapter shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed
building or completely surrounded by a solid fence of permanent construction
and maintained in such a manner as to prevent the enclosed vehicle from being
observed from the outside, or a vehicle on the premises of a business
enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the
operation of such business enterprise, providing the business enterprise is
operating under proper zoning; and, further, providing that, said vehicle does
not remain in such place for such time and in such manner as to become a
nuisance; or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful manner and place by the village. For purposes of this section,
NECESSARY TO THE OPERATION OF SUCH BUSINESS ENTERPRISE means that the vehicle
is being repaired, properly dismantled for complete disposition or awaiting
parts to be repaired, but does not mean that said vehicle is being used as a
temporary or permanent storage facility.
(2007 Code, § 24-7-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 UNLICENSED VEHICLES; STORAGE.
   No person in charge of or control of any property zoned residential within
the village, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise shall
allow more than one vehicle not displaying current state registration to remain
on said property for a period in excess of 30 days at any one time. Nothing in
this section is intended to permit the storage of vehicles which would
otherwise be contrary to the other provisions of this code of ordinances.
(2007 Code, § 24-7-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   No person in charge of or control of any property zoned residential within
the village, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise shall, for
a period longer than 30 days, upon said property place a “for sale” sign or
otherwise offer for sale in any manner any vehicle, nor shall said person allow
the same to occur.
(2007 Code, § 24-7-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or an officer designated by him or her is hereby
authorized to enter upon public or private real estate in order to serve a
notice on any person who is in violation of this chapter by affixing an orange
sticker on the windshield of the vehicle or other surface in plain view. The
notice shall state the section of this chapter being violated and that the
motor vehicle may be impounded if not removed within seven days after the date
on the sticker.
   (B)   After seven days from service of the notice to remove a vehicle under
this section, the Chief of Police, or an officer designated by him or her, is
hereby authorized to enter upon the public or private real estate and cause to
be removed said motor vehicle, or parts thereof, for the purpose of disposing
of same and to serve a citation for violation of this article. The cost for
such removal, storage and disposal thereof shall be paid by the owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee, or otherwise, of the real estate or the owner of the motor
vehicle.
(2007 Code, § 24-7-7)
§ 72.08 INOPERABLE VEHICLE NOTICE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1714.png]
 
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Non-Highway Vehicles (Golf Carts/Utility Task Vehicles (UTVs))
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Operation of golf carts/ utility task vehicles (utvs)
 
   
73.99   Penalty
NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES (GOLF CARTS/UTILITY TASK VEHICLES (UTVs))
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course and
further modified with additional equipment, as specified in this subchapter.
   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES. Golf Carts/Utility Task Vehicles (UTVs), as defined in
625 ILCS 5/l1-1426.1 and as further defined herein.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on a golf cart/utility task vehicle (utv), other than
as a passenger. To use or control in any manner the operation of a golf cart/
utility task vehicle (utv).
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
golf cart/utility task vehicle (utv).
   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE (UTV). Any motorized off-highway device designed to
travel primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer's dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less, traveling on four or more
non-highway tires, designed with non-straddle seat and a steering wheel for
steering control.
(Ord. 20160920-1, passed 9-20-2016; Ord. 2020/05-19-1, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS/UTILITY TASK VEHICLES (UTVS).
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a golf cart/utility task vehicle (utv) on any street, alley,
highway, or roadway located within the village.
   (B)   Golf carts/utility task vehicles (UTVs) may be operated on streets,
alleys, highways and roadways within the village if the operator complies with
all of the following requirements:
      (1)   A golf cart/utility task vehicle (utv) must have the following at a
minimum: brakes, steering apparatus; tires, a rearview mirror, red
reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear, a slow moving emblem (as
required of other vehicles in § 12-709 of the State Vehicle Code (See 625 ILCS
5/12-709)) on the rear of the non-highway vehicle; a headlight that emits a
white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front; a tail lamp that
emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet from the rear; brake lights;
and turn signals. When operated on a roadway, a non-highway vehicle shall have
its head light and tail lamps lighted as required by § 12-201 of the State
Vehicle Code (See 625 ILCS 5/12-201.
      (2)   When operated on a street, alley, highway or roadway, a golf cart/
utility task vehicle (utv) shall have its headlight and tail lamps lighted.
      (3)   A person may not operate a golf cart/utility task vehicle (utv)
upon any street, highway or roadway in the village unless he or she has a valid
driver's license issued in his or her name by the Secretary of State or by a
foreign jurisdiction.
      (4)   The operator of a golf cart/utility task vehicle (utv) shall comply
with any and all traffic regulations in this subchapter and in the State
Vehicle Code.
      (5)   No person shall operate a golf cart/utility task vehicle (utv) upon
any sidewalk located within the village limits.
      (6)   No person shall operate a golf cart/utility task vehicle (utv) on
any street, highway or roadway where the posted speed limit is greater than 35
mph. This division (B)(6) does not prohibit a golf cart/utility task vehicle
(utv) from making a direct crossing of a road, street or highway where the road
or street has a posted speed limit of more than 35 mph if the direct crossing
is made at an intersection with another public street, road or highway.
Notwithstanding any provision in this subchapter, golf carts/utility task
vehicles (utvs) shall not be operated on County Highway 20, nor on U.S. Highway
48. No direct crossings may be made of County Highway 20. U.S. Highway 48 shall
not be crossed, except at Bower Street.
      (7)   The golf cart/utility task vehicle (utv) must be brought to a
complete stop before attempting a crossing.
      (8)   The operator of the golf cart/utility task vehicle (utv) must yield
the right-of-way to all pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
      (9)   Any person who operates a golf cart/utility task vehicle (utv) on a
street, highway or roadway shall be subject to the mandatory insurance
requirements under Art. VI of Ch. 7 of the State Vehicle Code (See 625 ILCS 5/
7-601 et seq.).
      (10)   No golf cart/utility task vehicle (utv) may be operated within the
village limits unless it displays a village permit. Application for a permit
may be obtained from the Village Inspector. Vehicles may be permitted upon
receipt of a complete application, presentation of proof of insurance,
satisfactory inspection of the vehicle and payment of the license fee of $40.
Permits are valid from the date of issue until March 31 of the next even
numbered years. Permits issued during odd numbered years will be pro-rated at
$20 and will still expire on March 31 of the next even numbered year.
(Ord. 20160920-1, passed 9-20-2016; Ord. 2020/05-19-1, passed 5-19-2020)
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
73.02 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $75, nor
more than $750, for each separate offense. If a court action is instituted to
recover a fine, in addition to the stated penalty, the fine shall include all
court costs and other costs incurred by the village in prosecuting the case. A
person who drives, operates or is in actual physical control of a neighborhood
electric vehicle on a roadway while under the influence is subject to 625 ILCS
5/11-500 through 11-502 of the State Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 20160920-1, passed 9-20-2016)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   Yield intersections
      
III.   Heavy trucks
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
71.17 of this code of ordinances, the following streets are hereby designated
as stop intersections, to-wit:
   (A)   One- and two-way stops.
Through Street Stop Street (Direction)
Through Street         Stop Street (Direction)
*Bower Street          Clay Street (southbound)
Bower Street           East Street (both)
Bower Street           West Street (both)
Clay Street            Belle Street (both)
South Street (C.H. 20) Orchard Street (southbound)
South Street (C.H. 20) W. Plains Drive (northbound)
South Street (C.H. 20) Rayjon Drive (northbound, southbound)
South Street (C.H. 20) View Street (northbound)
South Street (C.H. 20) West Street (southbound)
South View Street      East View Drive (eastbound)
South View Street      Park Court (westbound)
South View Street      Sunset Court (westbound)
South View Street      View Circle (north leg, westbound)
South View Street      View Circle (south leg, westbound)
South View Street      Westmoore Drive (eastbound)
South View Street      Westmoore Court (westbound)
W. Plains Drive        W. Plains Drive (northbound, southbound)
Street Route 47/48     All intersecting streets
NOTES TO TABLE:
*See
Ch. 74, Schd. II, Yield Intersections
 
   (B)   Three-way stops.
 
Through Street         Stop Street (Direction)
South Street (C.H. 20) At Street Route 48 and East Street
 
   (C)   Four-way stops.
 
Through Street    Stop Street (Direction)
South View Street Rayjon Drive and View Circle
 
(2007 Code, Ch. 24, Schd. A)
SCHEDULE II. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
71.18 of this code of ordinances, the following streets are hereby designated
as yield right-of-way intersections, to-wit:
 
Through or Yield Street      Yield Street (Direction)
Lorraine Street (northbound) At W. Bower Street (eastbound)
 
(2007 Code, Ch. 24, Schd. C)
SCHEDULE III. HEAVY TRUCKS.
   Trucks exceeding 20,000 gross vehicle weight shall be prohibited from using
South View Street, from the point it intersects with Route 48 until the point
it intersects with County Road 20/South View Street. Appropriate signs shall be
erected at the aforementioned locations.
(Ord. 2015/07/21-1, passed 7-21-2015)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Snow routes
      
II.   Disabled parking zones
      
III.   No parking zones
SCHEDULE I. SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on any street at any time after
a snowfall of two inches or more, unless the street has been cleared of snow,
except as follows:
      (1)   The 200 block of West Belle Street wherein parking shall be allowed
on both sides of said street on the rocked shoulder area; and/or
      (2)   The 200 block of West Bower Street wherein parking shall be allowed
on the north side of said street on the rocked shoulder area.
   (B)   Violators shall have their vehicles towed away at the owner’s expense.
(2007 Code, § 24-6-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. DISABLED PARKING ZONES.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
71.49 of this code of ordinances, the following streets and areas are hereby
designated as disabled parking spaces, to-wit:
 
Street/Lot         Location
407 S. View Street First parking space at Whitmore/Oreana Community Center
                   directly north of front entrance
407 S. View Street First parking space at Whitmore/Oreana Community Center
                   directly south of front entrance
W. Bower Street    First parking space in front of Whitmore Township Hall
 
(2007 Code, Ch. 24, Schd. H)
SCHEDULE III. NO PARKING ZONES.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
71.48 of this code of ordinances, the following streets are hereby designated
as no parking zones:
 
Street                                                 Lanes
Belle Street from Orchard Street to East Street        All
Bower Street from Orchard Street to Lorraine Street    All
Clay Street from Bower Street to Belle Street          All
Lorraine Street from County Highway 20 to Bower Street All
Orchard Street from County Highway 20 to Belle Street  All
West Street from County Highway 20 to Belle Street     All
 
(Ord. 2008-06/17-1, passed 6-17-2008)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
95.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   County animal control program
   
90.02   Fee schedule
§ 90.01 COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL PROGRAM.
   (A)   The village adopts the Macon County animal control ordinance
applicable within the corporate limits of the village. The county animal
control ordinance provides for fees for registration and tags, fines, penalties
and late fees, which shall then apply to the area within the corporate limits
of the village. The county provisions may be amended from time to time and
shall automatically apply to the village.
   (B)   The county agrees to perform the following functions, obligations and
duties:
      (1)   The county shall administer the animal control and care facility
currently located at 2820 Parkway Drive, Decatur, Illinois, and shall provide
the personnel, equipment and supplies to operate the facility for the
impoundment of animals and all its related purposes and activities. The
facility shall have reasonable hours of operation for the various divisions of
the animal control program based on the reasonable needs for services.
      (2)   In general, the county shall perform the following functions:
         (a)   Investigate and respond to calls concerning violations of the
acts occurring throughout the county;
         (b)   Investigate and respond to calls concerning any violations of
the animal control provisions of the county animal control ordinance occurring
within the corporate limits of the village;
         (c)   Pick up, care for and dispose of live stray animals (known as
running at large) within the corporate limits of the village;
         (d)   Perform such fieldwork, investigation, and duties as are
necessary to effectuate the purposes of the acts and the county animal control
ordinance. This includes the duty to issue citations and/or notices to appear
for violations of the acts and the county animal control ordinance, as well as
write reports in situations involving possible legal action and forward those
citations, notices, and reports to the appropriate prosecutor’s office, and to
timely respond to reasonable requests from the prosecutor’s office; and
         (e)   After the close of normal business hours, the county shall
provide an animal control warden to be on call to answer emergency calls after
hours for calls within the corporate limits of the village. An after hours
telephone number shall be accessible to those calling animal control. Animal
control shall provide a reasonable response to all calls.
      (3)   Specifically, the county shall, 24 hours per day, perform the
following services within the corporate limits of the village:
         (a)   Respond to aggressive animals capable of carrying rabies, which
are running at large or threatening the safety of the public;
         (b)   Respond to any bites by animals capable of carrying rabies to
humans or other animals;
         (c)   Respond to injured animals;
         (d)   Respond to wildlife capable of carrying rabies in living
quarters; and
         (e)   Assist emergency service workers (fire, police, ambulance,
sheriff and the like) when needed.
      (4)   Specifically, the county shall, during fieldwork operations
business hours only, perform the following services within the corporate limits
of the village:
         (a)   Respond to domestic animals running at large;
         (b)   Respond to welfare and/or humane investigations for violations
of the acts and/or the county animal control ordinance;
         (c)   Provide rabies vaccination enforcement and control;
         (d)   Attend dangerous animal and vicious animal meetings;
         (e)   At the request of the village, pick up and dispose of dead
animals, unless such animals are on roadways maintained by the Illinois
Department of Transportation; and
         (f)   Respond to animal control violations under the county animal
control ordinance.
      (5)   The county may negotiate and establish contracts with other
entities for the use of the animal control facilities, including the freezer
and crematory, by such other entities.
      (6)   The county shall provide a report to the village, at the request of
the village, indicating animal control and shelter activity for year to date.
This report shall include, but is not limited to, the following: total of all
animals impounded, including dogs, cats, bite cases, owner-released animals,
stray animals, adoptions, reclamations, animals euthanized, and a total of all
citations and notices to appear issued from the acts and the county animal
control ordinance.
      (7)   The county may prosecute violations of the acts throughout the
county.
      (8)   The county shall be entitled to retain all fees, fines, penalties,
and late fees collected for enforcement and prosecution of violation of the
acts and the county animal control ordinance. Payments by the public to the
county shall be made at a location or locations as determined by the county.
   (C)   The village agrees to perform the following functions, obligations and
duties:
      (1)   Any fines arising from citations issued by the county within the
corporate limits of the village and not paid within 30 days of issuance shall
become the responsibility of the village. The county shall bill the village
monthly for such unpaid citations and said sum shall be due on the first day of
the following month. The village, at its discretion, may pursue prosecution,
collection, and reimbursement from the offender for the unpaid citation.
      (2)   The village agrees make payments as indicated on the attached fee
schedule. The county shall bill the village monthly for such sums, which sums
shall be due on the first day of the following month.
   (D)   The county animal control program shall be supervised by the County
Sheriff. Animal control reserves the right to decide what animals are or are
not adoptable.
   (E)   The village and the county each agree to indemnify and hold the other
harmless for any damages or claims arising out of their respective duties and
responsibilities under the animal control agreement or the acts.
   (F)   Modifications to the animal control agreement, including modifications
of services to be provided by either party, shall be made in writing upon
agreement of the village and the county.
   (G)   The animal control agreement may be terminated by either party upon
giving the other party 60 days written notice of its intention and desire to
terminate the same.
   (H)   Any notice required to be given under the animal control agreement
shall be delivered by personal service or by certified mail and return receipt.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2013)
§ 90.02 FEE SCHEDULE.
Village Animal Fee Schedule
Village Animal Fee Schedule
Adoptable animals brought in by public or            $49
municipality employee
Adoptable animals brought in the warden              $69
Boarding (maximum of seven days)                     $7/day = $49
Calls that require two wardens during business hours $20 additional
   After hours                                    $40 additional
Euthanasia and disposal                              $35
Non-adoptable animals brought in by public or        $84
municipality employee
Non-adoptable animals brought in by warden           $104
Pickup of dead animals, if done by the county, will  $30 per animal
be during normal business hours
   For large animals that require two people      $20 additional per animal
Warden fee                                           $20
   After hours                                    $40
Tranquilizing animal                                 $35
Warden fees will be charged whenever a warden is called out to a municipality
regardless of the outcome.
Animals that are reclaimed by their owner, owner will be responsible for all
fines and fees.
 
(Ord. passed 8-20-2013)
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Public meetings
   
91.03   Selling, peddling or hawking
   
91.04   Use of park land and/or facilities by organizations
   
91.05   Advertising
   
91.06   Airplane, rocket flying
   
91.07   Animals; at large; birds and other animals
   
91.08   Firearms and fireworks
   
91.09   Weapons and missiles
   
91.10   Closing time
   
91.11   Camping
   
91.12   Minors
   
91.13   Improper or disorderly conduct; obeying rules
   
91.14   Fires
   
91.15   Intoxicating liquors
   
91.16   Dumping
   
91.17   Gambling
   
91.18   Damage to or removal of property
   
91.19   Vehicles; parking; speed; motor-driven vehicles
   
91.20   Golf
   
91.21   Restricted areas
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES. The Park Committee of the village.
   BOARD. The Village Board of Oreana.
   PARK. Any parcel of land controlled by the Village Board and designated for
use of recreational pursuits.
   PARK CUSTODIAN. A person designated by the Village Board as having the
responsibility for performing park maintenance.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-1)
§ 91.02 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   No person or organization of any kind shall call or hold any public meeting,
exhibition or entertainment of any kind on any park property unless permission
is granted by an authorized representative of the village, except meetings and
functions held inside the Whitmore-Oreana Community Center and authorized by
said center’s Building Manager. Payment of expenses and furnishing of
certificate of insurance indemnification of the village may be required.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 SELLING, PEDDLING OR HAWKING.
   No person or organization shall offer or exchange for sale any article or
thing, or do any hawking, peddling or soliciting or buy or offer to buy any
article or thing or take up any collection or solicit or receive contributions
of money or anything of value on any park property except for operators of
concessions under contract, neighborhood adult clubs properly registered with
the village and unless such person or organization has received prior written
approval authorized by the Village Board, except activities conducted inside
the Whitmore-Oreana Community Center and authorized by said center’s Building
Manager.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 USE OF PARK LAND AND/OR FACILITIES BY ORGANIZATIONS.
   Any organizations desiring to use park land or facilities for the functions
of the organization must first obtain permission from the Board. Each
organization so using park land and/or facilities will be required to furnish a
proper certificate of insurance, abide by all rules and regulations of the
Board, keep their locations in a neat and orderly condition at all times and
may be required to furnish an annual list of officers of the organization and
an annual financial report to the village. This section shall not apply to
family reunions or picnic groups; or to organizations using the Whitmore-Oreana
Community Center as authorized by the center’s Building Manager.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-4)
§ 91.05 ADVERTISING.
   No person shall display any placard or advertisement of any kind in or on
any park property, nor shall any person distribute, cast, throw or place any
hand bill, nor post, stencil or otherwise affix any notice or bills,
advertisements or other papers upon any structure or thing in or about any
park, except by special permission obtained from the Board and except in
conjunction with the use of the Whitmore-Oreana Community Center as authorized
by the center’s Building Manager.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 AIRPLANE, ROCKET FLYING.
   (A)   No person shall fly, cause to be flown, or permit any model power
aircraft of any kind to be flown in the park system without a permit, and then
only at such places and times as the village may from time to time designate
for the purpose.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-6)
   (B)   No person shall fire or release any rocket, missile or similar device
in any park without a permit and then only at locations designated for this
purpose.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-7)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 ANIMALS; AT LARGE; BIRDS AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall allow any domestic animal to roam loose.
      (2)   Dogs and cats may be permitted; provided, they are held by suitable
line, chain or strap.
      (3)   Any domestic animal found within the park system in violation of
this section may be apprehended, removed to an animal shelter, public pound or
any other place provided for the purpose and impounded all at the expense of
the owner.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-8)
   (B)   No person shall molest, trap, catch, snare, wound, kill or treat
cruelly any bird or animal or attempt to do same, nor shall any person feed to
any bird or animal any food or any substance that might reasonably cause
physical disorder or sickness, except of permission granted to persons for
control of rodents, pests or other birds or animals as may be deemed necessary
by the Board.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-19)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 FIREARMS AND FIREWORKS.
   No fireworks of any nature or firearm shall be set off or discharged, except
upon authority granted by the Board. (This provision applies to rockets,
missiles, projectiles and all similar devices.)
(2007 Code, § 28-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 WEAPONS AND MISSILES.
   No person shall bring, carry or use in any way, knives, firearms or other
weapons of any kind in the park system. No person shall throw, cast or shoot
stones, arrows or other missiles of any kind within the park system, except for
such places and times as the village may designate for such purposes.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.10 CLOSING TIME.
   The parks of the village shall be closed from 10:00 p.m. prevailing time in
the evening until 6:00 a.m. the following morning. No person shall remain in
the parks after closing time unless permission has been granted by the village
for later hours. Any persons engaged in cleaning the Whitmore-Oreana Community
Center, after a function, may remain until 12:00 a.m. for so long as those
persons are actually engaged in cleaning activities inside the building and are
otherwise authorized by the center’s Building Manager. Township functions may
continue within the Community Center until 11:00 p.m. Community Center hours
shall not apply to authorized individuals such as officers and employees of the
village or township.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.11 CAMPING.
   No person shall place, erect or use any hammock, swing, tent or shelter or
otherwise camp or sleep in the park system, except in areas designated as
camping areas or upon written permission from the village.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.12 MINORS.
   Every parent, guardian or custodian of a minor shall not permit or allow
such minor to do any act in the park system in violation of any law, ordinance
or rule of the village and he or she shall use his or her best efforts to
prevent any such violation.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.13 IMPROPER OR DISORDERLY CONDUCT; OBEYING RULES.
   (A)   No person shall use any abusive, threatening, insulting, indecent,
profane or obscene language or any other language calculated to occasion a
breach of the peace nor shall any person be guilty of any indecent act. No
person shall make or assist in making any improper noise, riot, disturbance,
breach of peace or diversion tending to a breach of the peace or collect with
other persons in bodies or crowds for unlawful purposes or for any purpose
which is to the annoyance or disturbance of other persons. No person shall
commit an assault and battery upon another person in the park system.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-14)
   (B)   All persons shall obey all reasonable orders, directions or
regulations of the Village Board, its authorized representatives, park
custodians and the Building Manager for the Whitmore-Oreana Community Center.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-24)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.14 FIRES.
   No person shall light or make use of any fire, except at such places as may
be designated for such purpose and then under the regulations prescribed by the
Board or its authorized representatives.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.15 INTOXICATING LIQUORS.
   No person under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs shall
enter, be or remain in any area within the park system, nor shall any person
sell, give away or transfer any intoxicating liquors, or bring in, sell, give
away, transfer or use any narcotic drugs in the park system. However, persons
and organizations who have obtained authorization from the Whitmore-Oreana
Community Center Building Manager may possess beer and wine for transfer by
gift only and for consumption within the Whitmore-Oreana Community Center only,
so long as any and all state laws concerning the dispensing of alcohol are
fully complied with.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.16 DUMPING.
   No person shall dispose, dump, throw or place any coal, ashes, dust,
rubbish, garbage or similar materials, except in such receptacles as are
provided for that purpose.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.17 GAMBLING.
   No person shall engage in any game of chance or in the use of any gambling
device, nor shall any person tell fortunes for pecuniary reward, excepting
games of chance organized and conducted by not for profit organizations, within
the Whitmore-Oreana Community Center, as permitted by state law and as
authorized by the Whitmore-Oreana Community Center’s Building Manager.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.18 DAMAGE TO OR REMOVAL OF PROPERTY.
   No person shall cut, break, climb on or in any way injure or deface any
tree, shrub, plant, turf, building, fence or other property, nor remove any of
same without permission.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.19 VEHICLES; PARKING; SPEED; MOTOR-DRIVEN VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked upon any area other than a property
designated parking lot or parking area without specific permission. No vehicle
shall be parked in any manner which will block in whole or in part any road,
driveway or doorway.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-21)
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle faster than such rate as is reasonable
and proper, having regard to the safety of persons and property; provided that,
any rate of speed in excess of 20 mph will be deemed prima facie a dangerous
and unreasonable rate of speed.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-22)
   (C)   Motor driven vehicles shall not be used in any village park, except by
consent of the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-23)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.20 GOLF.
   No person shall swing or make use of any golf club, nor play golf, nor hit
or putt golf balls in or on any park land, except upon established golf courses
and driving ranges as are now used or may, in the future, be established and
designated by the Board.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.21 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   No vehicle shall be driven or permitted upon any area of village parks other
than such areas as shall be designated as a drive, roadway or parking area. No
person shall remove or cause to be removed any placard, chain, cable or other
similar device which has been erected to close any drive, roadway or parking
area, nor shall any person drive or cause to be driven any vehicle over, around
or under same. Nothing herein contained shall be applicable to any emergency
vehicle or to any vehicle being driven by any officer, agent or employee of the
village being used in the course of duty or employment or by persons who have
received specific permission from the Board.
(2007 Code, § 28-1-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Duty to keep premises clean
   
92.02   Placing offensive matter on property
   
92.03   Discharge of offensive matter; offensive cesspools
   
92.04   Privies
   
92.05   Obstructing water or drainage
   
92.06   Storing new and used lumber
   
92.07   Poisonous plants
   
92.08   Planting certain trees near sewers prohibited
   
92.09   Public health violation ticket
Nuisances Generally
   
92.20   Enumeration of particular nuisances
   
92.21   Enumeration not exclusive
   
92.22   Nuisances to be removed
Plants and Weeds
   
92.35   Weeds declared to be nuisance
   
92.36   Plant height restrictions; parkway maintenance standards
   
92.37   Removal notice
   
92.38   Abatement of nuisance
   
92.39   Lien procedures
Unsafe and Dangerous Buildings
   
92.50   Definitions
   
92.51   Prohibited and declared to be nuisance
   
92.52   Notice to owner to correct; correction by village
   
92.53   Additional remedies
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of village to promote health and suppress disease, see 65 ILCS 5/
11-20-5
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DUTY TO KEEP PREMISES CLEAN.
   The owner or occupant of every lot or building, or any appurtenances
thereof, shall keep every part thereof free from filth or anything offensive
which is likely to contribute to disease or infection. Upon the owner’s or
occupant’s failure to do so, it is made the duty of the Chief of Police, upon
complaint, immediately to give notice to the owner or occupant thereof, and
require him or her to act as necessary for the health of the village.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 PLACING OFFENSIVE MATTER ON PROPERTY.
   No person shall deposit or place upon any lot, street, avenue, or alley
within the village, and no person owning a lot in the village shall permit to
be deposited or placed on the lot any offensive substances, old fruit,
vegetables, or meat cans, boxes, old barrels, decayed fruit, manure, kitchen
waste, or anything that gives forth any disagreeable or noisome odor or which
is otherwise prejudicial to the public health.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 DISCHARGE OF OFFENSIVE MATTER; OFFENSIVE CESSPOOLS.
   No person within the village shall place, throw, or permit to be discharged
or to flow from or out of any house or premises any filthy, foul, or offensive
matter or liquid of any kind into any street, alley, or public place or upon
any lot or ground, or allow or permit this to be done by any person connected
with the premises under his or her control, or shall allow or permit the
contents of any vault, privy, or cesspool to rise within less than two feet of
the top thereof.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 PRIVIES.
   No person shall build, maintain, or use any privy or privy vault within the
village.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 OBSTRUCTING WATER OR DRAINAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in any street, gutter, or public sewer, culvert, water pipe, hydrant, or
watercourse within the village.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 STORING NEW AND USED LUMBER.
   (A)   All lumber, used or new, shall be stacked in piles at least one foot
above the ground and each stack thereof shall not be more than six feet in
width; nor shall the top thereof be more than six feet above the ground. In no
case shall the stacks of lumber be closer than 30 inches.
   (B)   All new and used lumber shall be stacked or stored in a manner to be
free of rats, mice, termites, and rodents. No lumber shall be stacked or stored
in a manner as to be dangerous to anyone in the immediate vicinity thereof.
   (C)   This shall apply only to that new or used lumber stacked or stored
outside a building or warehouse. No lumber to which any metal object is
attached shall be stacked or stored outside a building.
§ 92.07 POISONOUS PLANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant any poison ivy or other
poisonous vine or plant within this village so near any public sidewalk,
street, or alley as to injuriously affect passers-by, or to permit any
poisonous vine or plant to so grow in or upon any premises owned or controlled
by him or her.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 PLANTING CERTAIN TREES NEAR SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant any poplar or cottonwood tree
on any private property in the village, the point of the planting of which
shall be within 45 feet of any public sewer, drain, or water pipe.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 PUBLIC HEALTH VIOLATION TICKET.
   (A)   The authorized village officer shall have the authority to issue a
public health violation ticket to any person who shall violate the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   The public health violation ticket is a notice to the recipient of the
ticket to correct the named violation.
   (C)   The violation shall be corrected within ten days or a lesser time as
stated in the section cited by the owner or the occupant of the premises on
which the violation has occurred. Where a violation constitutes an emergency
health hazard, the violation shall be corrected within 24 hours by the owner or
occupant of the premises on which the violation has occurred. However, in the
case of an emergency health hazard, the authorized village official may correct
or have the violation corrected on its behalf without first issuing a public
health violation ticket or without waiting 24 hours after the issuance of a
public health violation ticket. In all cases it shall be the ultimate
responsibility of the owner of the premises on which the violation exists to
correct the violation.
   (D)   The public health violation ticket shall contain the name and address
of the violator, the location of the violation, a statement of the violation,
including the specific section of the code being violated, a statement that the
violation shall be corrected within the time specified in the public health
violation ticket, a statement that failure to correct the violation complained
of within the time stated on the ticket may result in the village itself
correcting the violation or the filing of an ordinance violation that may
result, upon conviction, in a fine not exceeding $500 each day the violation
continues, or both.
   (E)   Service of the public health violation ticket shall be made in the
following manner:
      (1)   The original shall be served on the violator either by personal
delivery or by the regular mail. The authorized village official shall certify
that he or she delivered the ticket personally to the violator or mailed the
ticket by regular mail to the violator.
      (2)   One copy shall be retained by the authorized village official.
   (F)   Any person who is issued a public health violation ticket and does not
correct the violation within the time limit specified therein shall be subject
to the penalties provided in §
92.99.
   (G)   In no situation shall the ticket enforcement procedure preclude the
village from enforcing public health violations through any other available
remedies provided by this code, state or federal statute, or common law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 92.20 ENUMERATION OF PARTICULAR NUISANCES.
   The presence of the following within the village is declared to be
detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare and constitutes a
nuisance:
   (A)   Sound, animals, or things which interfere with the peace or comfort or
disturb the quiet enjoyment of any person in the village;
   (B)   Anything which is made, permitted, used, kept, maintained, operated,
or any building or any animal that is kept in a manner which is offensive,
nauseous, dangerous to life, limb, or property, or detrimental to the health of
the persons residing in that area;
   (C)   Any filthy, foul, or offensive matter or liquid of any kind discharged
into any street, alley, or public place, or on any adjacent lot or ground;
   (D)   Any lot, ground, or premises, within the village, on which stagnant
water may be standing so as to become or likely to become foul, putrid,
offensive, or detrimental to the health and comfort of persons residing in the
vicinity thereof;
   (E)   The emission of dense smoke from the chimney or smokestack of any
building or premises or from any garbage or rubbish container;
   (F)   Any spoiled, tainted, or diseased perishable agricultural commodity;
   (G)   The presence of brush, weeds, dead, or dying trees, stumps, roots, any
abandoned or inoperable vehicle or waste material, on land within the village;
and
   (H)   In addition to what is herein declared to be a nuisance, those
offenses known to the common law or of the state or federal statutes as
nuisances may, in case the same exist within the village, be treated as such
and proceeded against as provided in this chapter.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The various nuisances described and enumerated in this chapter shall not be
deemed to be exclusive, but shall be in addition to all other nuisances
described and prohibited by this code.
Statutory reference:
   Power of village to define, prevent, and abate nuisances, see 65 ILCS 5/11-
60-2
§ 92.22 NUISANCES TO BE REMOVED.
   Any person causing a nuisance, as defined in this code, and the owner,
occupant, or lessee of land on which any nuisance exists, are required to
correct the nuisance. The correction shall be made within the time limit
enumerated in the notice of violation from the village. In all cases it shall
be the ultimate responsibility of the owner of the premises on which a nuisance
exists to correct the nuisance.
Cross-reference:
   Public health violation ticket, see §
92.09
PLANTS AND WEEDS
§ 92.35 WEEDS DECLARED TO BE NUISANCE.
   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cockleburr, wild
lettuce, or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of
land in the village are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be
unlawful to permit any such weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
§ 92.36 PLANT HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS; PARKWAY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass, or plants,
other than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants, to grow to a
height exceeding eight inches anywhere in the village. Any such plants or weeds
exceeding this height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   The owners of property abutting any public streets, roads, or ways
shall maintain the area between the edge of pavement or curb and their property
line, commonly known as parkway, in a neat, clean, and orderly condition and
free of any weeds, grass, or plants in excess of five inches in height, other
than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.37 REMOVAL NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to serve or cause to be served a
notice by registered mail to the last known address upon the owner or occupant
of any premises on which weeds or plants are permitted to grow in violation of
the provisions of this subchapter and to demand the abatement of the nuisance
within five days.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.38 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   If the person served by the notice required by §
92.37 above does not abate the nuisance within five days, the village may
proceed to abate the nuisance, keeping an account of the expanse of the
abatement, and the expense shall be charged and paid by the owner or occupant.
§ 92.39 LIEN PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Charges for weed cutting shall be a lien upon the premises as provided
by state statutes. Whenever a bill for weed cutting remains unpaid 60 days
after it has been rendered, the Village Clerk may file with the County Recorder
of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal
description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice
that the village claims a lien for this amount. Notice of the bill for weed
cutting shall be mailed to the owner of the premises whenever the bill remains
unpaid for a period of 60 days after it has been rendered. The failure of the
Village Clerk to record the lien claim or to mail the notice, or the failure of
the owner to receive the notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose the
lien, for unpaid bills for weed cutting, as provided for in the following
provisions.
   (B)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be
sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied
to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. These foreclosures shall be by bill in equity in the name of
the village.
   (C)   The Village Attorney shall institute proceedings authorized by
division (B) above, in the name of the village, in any court having
jurisdiction over such matter when so directed by resolution of the Village
Board.
UNSAFE AND DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 92.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. As used in this chapter is hereby defined to mean and
include:
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its construction or condition, or
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health
of the occupants of it or of neighboring structures.
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard.
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause,
is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of
any part of the structure.
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available
to and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of the structure.
§ 92.51 PROHIBITED AND DECLARED TO BE NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any dangerous building, as defined in §
92.50, in the village is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any
dangerous building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the record
owner, occupant, or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the
same to remain in a dangerous condition, or to occupy the building or permit it
to be occupied while it is or remains in a dangerous condition. The Mayor and
Board of Trustees may, in addition to any other action authorized by this
chapter, enforce this section.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.52 NOTICE TO OWNER TO CORRECT; CORRECTION BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the village are of the
opinion, based upon a viewing of the premises by the Mayor, a Trustee, or an
official of the village charged with enforcement of building or zoning and an
oral or written report to the Mayor and Board of Trustees, that any building or
structure in the village is a dangerous building, the Board of Trustees may by
resolution direct the Village Clerk to cause written notice to be served upon
the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by registered mail or
personal service.
      (1)   Notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in a
dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied at once. Notice may be in the following form:
         “To             (owner-occupant of the premises) of the premises known
and described as             . You are hereby notified that (described
building) on the premises above described has been condemned as a nuisance and
as a dangerous building after inspection by                  .
               The cause for this decision is (here insert the facts as to the
dangerous condition).
         You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately,
or the village will proceed to do so.
         You may also be subject to a fine of not less than $50 per day nor
more than $500 per day for each day the building has been or shall remain in a
dangerous condition.”
      (2)   If the person receiving this notice has not complied therewith
within ten days from the time when this notice is served upon the person by
personal service or by registered mail, the Mayor and Board of Trustees may
proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the dangerous building.
   (B)   If the owner of the premises is unknown or if his or her address is
unknown, service of any notice provided for in this section may be made by
posting a copy thereof on the premises and by publishing a copy thereof one
time in a newspaper published within the village.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.53 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to the actions authorized by other sections of this
chapter, the village may proceed under the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1,
which authorizes the demolition, repair, or enclosure of unsafe and dangerous
buildings or uncompleted and abandoned buildings, and/or the removal of
garbage, debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or
materials from the buildings, or under the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.01,
which authorizes the securing or enclosing of abandoned residential property,
by applying to the Circuit Court for an order for the owners to do so and which
authorizes a lien when the village is compelled to take action.
   (B)   The village may also proceed under the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-
2, which authorizes an injunction to require compliance with building, fire,
health, and safety standards.
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.08 or fail to comply with any notice given by the authorized village
official as provided in §
92.09 shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed $750
for each violation. Each day during which a violation continues beyond the
specified time for correction shall constitute a separate punishable offense.
      (2)   If the village corrects the violation itself or causes the
violation to be corrected on its behalf, a lien for the amount of time and
expense involved in correcting the violation shall be filed against the land
where the violation occurred unless the owner or occupant of that land shall
reimburse the village its expenses upon request. A minimum charge of $100 for
each hour, or part of an hour, shall be levied for work performed by or on
behalf of the village in correcting a violation. The lien shall be recorded
with the County Recorder of Deeds within 60 days after the work is performed by
the village or on behalf of the village, and foreclosure suit to collect the
cost of the lien shall be filed within two years after the recordation of the
lien as in the case of foreclosure.
      (3)   If the village corrects the violation itself or causes the
violation to be corrected on its behalf, the violator shall nevertheless be
subject to the above specified fine, in addition to a lien being placed on the
violator’s property.
   (B)   (1)   Unless a greater or lesser penalty is prescribed elsewhere in
this code of ordinances, any person who shall violate any provisions of §§
92.20 through
92.22 or
92.35 through
92.39 shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed $750
for each violation. Each day during which a violation continues beyond the
specified time for correction shall constitute a separate punishable offense.
      (2)   If the village corrects the violation or causes the violation to be
corrected on its behalf, the violator or shall be liable to the village for its
actual costs (material plus labor, or if the correction is contracted out, the
contract price) of abating the nuisance.
      (3)   Where the village itself corrects the violation or causes the
violation to be corrected on its behalf, the violator shall be subject to both
subsections (1) and (2) above.
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
92.50 through
92.53 shall, upon conviction, be punished by imposition of a fine of not less
than $50 and not more than $750 per offense. Every day a building shall be
maintained or permitted to exist in a dangerous condition shall constitute a
separate offense.
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Short title
   
93.02   Purpose; declaration of policy
   
93.03   Construction
   
93.04   Definitions
   
93.05   Discriminatory terms
   
93.06   Refusals to deal or of offers
   
93.07   Withholding housing
   
93.08   Advertisements
   
93.09   Signs and notices
   
93.10   Exemptions
   
93.11   Limitations
   
93.12   Discrimination in lending
   
93.13   Coverage
   
93.14   Representation
Administration and Enforcement
   
93.25   Violations
   
93.26   Complaints
   
93.27   Hearings by Village Board
   
93.28   Enforcement
   
93.29   Remedies
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Fair Housing Code of
the village”.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-1)
§ 93.02 PURPOSE AND DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village and the purpose of
this chapter, in the exercise by the village of its police and regulatory
powers for the protection of the public safety for the health, morals, safety
and welfare of the persons in and residing in the village, and for the
maintenance and promotion of commerce, industry and good government in the
village, to secure to all persons living or desiring to live in the village a
fair opportunity to purchase, lease, rent or occupy housing without
discrimination based on race, color, religion or national origin.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-2)
§ 93.03 CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be construed according to the fair import of its terms
and shall be liberally construed to further the purposes and policy stated in §
93.02 of this chapter and the special purposes of the particular provision
involved.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-3)
§ 93.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the village
which is arranged, designed or used as a home, residence or living quarters of
one or more individuals.
   HOUSING. Includes any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the
village, which is used or occupied or is intended, arranged or designed to be
used or occupied as a home, residence or living quarters of one or more
individuals, groups or families, and includes any vacant land within the
village which is zoned and intended to be used for the construction of any such
building or structure.
   LEASE. Includes sublease, assignment or rent (or rental) and includes any
contract to do any of the foregoing.
   LENDING INSTITUTION. Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan
association, other person in the business of lending money or guaranteeing
loans, any person in the business of obtaining, arranging or negotiating loans
or guarantees as agent or broker, and any person in the business of buying or
selling loans or instruments for the payment of money which are secured by
title to a security interest in real estate, but shall not include any
religious institution or organization nor any charitable or educational
organization operated, supervised or controlled by a religious institution or
organization.
   NATIONAL ORIGIN. Includes the national origin of an ancestor.
   OWNER. Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in, any dwelling or housing, or who holds legal or
equitable tide to shares of, or holds any beneficial interest in, any real
estate cooperative which owns any dwelling or housing.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, legal representatives, mutual companies, unincorporated
organizations, trusts, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers and
fiduciaries.
   PURCHASE. Includes any contract to purchase.
   REAL ESTATE AGENT. Any real estate broker, and real estate salesperson, and
any other person who, as employee or agent or otherwise, engages in the
management or operation of any dwelling or housing.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person licensed as a real estate broker in
accordance with the provisions of state statutes, or required thereby to be so
licensed.
   REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON. Any person licensed as a real estate salesperson in
accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, or required
thereby to be so licensed.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION. The purchase, sale, exchange or lease of any
dwelling or housing and an option to do any of the foregoing.
   SALE. Includes any contract to sell, exchange or to convey, transfer or
assign legal or equitable title to or a beneficial interest in real estate.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-4)
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATORY TERMS.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any owner or other person to sell or lease a dwelling or housing on terms,
conditions or privileges that discriminate between persons because of race,
color, religion or national origin.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-5) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 REFUSALS TO DEAL OR OF OFFERS.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this
chapter for any owner or other person to refuse to negotiate for, enter into or
perform any sale or lease of any dwelling or housing, because of the race,
color, religion or national origin of any party, to such sale or lease, or of
any member of the family of any such party, or of any person using or occupying
or intending to use or occupy such dwelling or housing, or of any person using
or occupying any dwelling or housing in the area in which such dwelling or
housing is located.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-6)
   (B)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this
chapter for any real estate agent or other person to refuse to receive or to
fail to transmit a bonafide offer for the purchase, sale, exchange or lease of
any dwelling or housing because of the race, color, religion or national origin
of the person making such offer.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-14)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 WITHHOLDING HOUSING.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this
chapter for any owner or other person to represent to any person that any
dwelling or housing is not available for inspection, purchase, sale, lease or
occupancy when in fact it is so available, or otherwise to withhold housing
from any person because of race, color, religion or national origin.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-7)
   (B)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this
chapter for any real estate agent or other person to represent to any person
that any dwelling or housing is not available for inspection, sale, lease or
occupancy when in fact it is so available or otherwise to withhold housing from
any person because of race, color, religion or national origin.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-13)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 ADVERTISEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this
chapter for any owner or other person to publish or circulate a statement,
advertisement or notice of an intention to sell or lease any dwelling or
housing in a manner that is unlawful under this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-8)
   (B)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this
chapter for any owner or other person to cause any person to circulate or
publish a statement, advertisement or notice that such owner or other person
intends to sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful
under this chapter, or to consent thereto.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-9)
   (C)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this
chapter for any real estate agent or other person to publish or circulate a
statement, advertisement or notice of an intention to sell or lease any
dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-15)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 SIGNS AND NOTICES.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this
chapter for any owner or other person to post or erect, or cause any person to
post or erect, any sign or notice upon any dwelling or housing, indicating an
intent to sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful
under this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-10)
   (B)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this
chapter for any real estate agent or other person to post or erect, or cause or
permit any person to post or erect, any sign or notice upon any dwelling or
housing, other person, indicating an intent to sell or lease any dwelling or
housing in a manner that is unlawful under this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-16)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the rental of any room or dwelling unit in
any owner-occupied dwelling which consists of more than one, but less than
five, dwelling units. As used herein, the term DWELLING UNIT means one or more
rooms which are arranged, designed or used as living quarters for one family or
one individual. The term OWNER includes the spouse or any lineal descendant or
ancestor of the owner.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-11)
§ 93.11 LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall require an owner to offer property to the
public at large before selling or renting it; providing, he or she complies
with all other provisions of this chapter; nor shall this chapter be deemed to
prohibit owners from giving preference to prospective tenants or buyers for any
reason other than religion, race, color or national origin. Nothing in this
chapter shall require an owner to offer property for sale or lease or to show
his or her property to any person if such person is not negotiating for the
purchase or lease of such property in good faith.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-12)
§ 93.12 DISCRIMINATION IN LENDING.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this
chapter for any lending institution, in making, agreeing to make, arranging or
negotiating any loan or guarantee of funds for the purpose of financing the
purchase or sale, construction, lease, rehabilitation, improvement, renovation
or repair of any dwelling or housing, to offer, seek or agree to terms,
conditions or privileges that discriminate between persons because of race,
color, religion or national origin.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-17)
   (B)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this
chapter for any lending institution to refuse to negotiate for, enter into or
perform any agreement to lend or guarantee the loan of funds for the purchase,
sale, construction, lease, rehabilitation, improvement, renovation or repair of
any dwelling or housing because of the race, color, religion or national origin
of any party to such agreement or of any member of the family of any such
party, or of the residents of the area in which such dwelling or housing is
located.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-18)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.13 COVERAGE.
   This chapter shall apply, respectively, to every real estate agent who,
within the village, performs any function as such real estate agent, but does
not maintain an office or place of doing business within the village, and this
chapter applies to every real estate agent and lending institution who
maintains an office of place of doing business within the village; provided,
however, that, the provisions of this chapter shall not be so construed as to
prohibit a real estate broker or real estate agent on behalf of the owner, from
inquiring into and reporting upon qualifications of any prospective buyer or
tenant with respect to limitations or exclusions other than those of race,
color, religion or national origin.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-19)
§ 93.14 REPRESENTATION.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any person, for the purpose of inducing any other person to enter into a real
estate transaction with such person or his or her principal or his or her
agent:
   (A)   To represent that a change has occurred, will occur or may occur with
respect to the race, color, religion or national origin in composition of the
owners or occupants in any block, neighborhood or area in which the dwelling or
housing (which is the subject of the real estate transaction) is located; or
   (B)   To represent that a change with respect to the race, color, religion
or national origin in the composition of the owners or occupants in any block,
neighborhood or area will result in lowering of property values, or in an
increase in criminal or anti-social behavior, or in a decline in the quality of
schools, in such block, neighborhood or area.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-20) Penalty, see §
93.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 93.25 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any person:
   (A)   To aid, abet, incite or coerce a person to engage in unlawful housing
practice;
   (B)   Willfully to interfere with the performance of a duty or the exercise
of a power by the Village Board or one of its members or representatives; or
   (C)   Willfully to obstruct or prevent a person from complying with the
provisions of this chapter or an order issued thereunder.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved in any manner by a violation of any provisions of
this chapter may file with the Village Board a written verified complaint
setting forth his or her grievance. The complaint shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the complaint;
      (2)   The name and address of the person against whom the complaint is
brought, if known to the complainant;
      (3)   The alleged facts surrounding the alleged violation of this
chapter; and
      (4)   Such complaint shall state the name and address of all persons
believed to have knowledge concerning the alleged facts.
   (B)   After the filing of any complaint, the Village Board shall serve a
copy of the complaint on the party or parties charged.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-22)
§ 93.27 HEARINGS BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   Such hearing shall be conducted by the Village Board upon due
and reasonable notice to all parties. The Village Board shall have power to
administer oaths and to take sworn testimony.
      (2)   Any party alleged to have violated this chapter shall be entitled
to be represented by counsel and shall have the right to call witnesses in his
or her own behalf and to cross-examine witnesses.
   (B)   At the conclusion of such hearing, the Village Board shall render the
complainant a decision.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-23)
§ 93.28 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Village Board shall be empowered to order any person found to be
engaging in an unfair housing practice to cease and desist from such practice,
upon such terms as shall be necessary and proper for the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Village Board shall be empowered at the conclusion of proceedings
held under this section to direct the Village Attorney to do any one or more of
the following:
      (1)   To institute and prosecute proceedings to enforce, against any
person found in violation of this chapter, the fine provided for in §
93.99 of this chapter;
      (2)   To apply to any court of competent jurisdiction:
         (a)   For an order restraining any person from violating any provision
of this chapter; and
         (b)   For such other or further relief as may seem to the court
appropriate for the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of
violations hereof.
      (3)   To petition or institute proceedings with the Department of
Registration and Education for the purpose of causing the Department to revoke,
suspend or refuse to renew the license granted by such Department to any real
estate broker or real estate salesperson found to have violated any provision
of this chapter; and
      (4)   In the case of any unlawful housing practice or violation of this
chapter by any person in the course of performing under a contract or
subcontract with the state or any political subdivision or agency thereof, or
with the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, to
petition or institute proceedings with such contracting agency for the purpose
of causing it to terminate such contract or any portion thereof, either
absolutely or on condition of compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Village Board may issue such cease and desist orders and may
direct such action by the Village Attorney, as shall be necessary for the
enforcement of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-24)
§ 93.29 REMEDIES.
   Any person aggrieved in any manner by the violation of any provision of this
chapter who has exhausted the remedies provided in §
93.28 of this chapter may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for
appropriate relief from such violation, including:
   (A)   An order compelling compliance with this chapter;
   (B)   An order to prohibit any person found by the court to have violated
any provision of this chapter from the sale, lease, exchange, transfer,
conveyance or assignment of any dwelling or housing which is the subject of
such violation;
   (C)   An order requiring specific performance of any contract for the sale,
lease, exchange, transfer, conveyance or assignment of any dwelling or housing
or any person who, in violation of this chapter, refuses or fails to perform
such contract;
   (D)   Compensatory damages; and
   (E)   Such other and further relief as may seem to the court appropriate for
the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of violations hereof.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-25)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $750.
(2007 Code, § 13-1-26)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-11.1-1
CHAPTER 94: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Prohibition of sales and display
   
94.03   Display permits; issuance
   
94.04   Application fee
   
94.05   Bond
   
94.06   Time requirements
   
94.07   Forms and reports
Open Burning
   
94.20   Definitions
   
94.21   Burning prohibited
   
94.22   Landscape waste; burning restrictions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks which were formerly classified as Class C
common fireworks and are now classified as Fireworks UN0336,1.4G under the
regulations of the U.S. Department of Transportation.
   FIREWORKS. The same as in the state’s Fireworks Use Act, 425 ILCS 35/1,
which, as of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this subchapter,
is as follows: any explosive composition, or any substance or combination of
substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion,
deflagaration or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy cannons,
in which explosives are used, the type of balloons which require fire
underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman
candles, bombs or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks
containing any explosive compound, or any tables or other device containing any
explosive substance or containing combustible substances producing visual
effects: provided, however, that, the term FIREWORKS shall not include snake or
glow worm pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers know as “party poppers”,
“booby traps”, “snappers”, “ trick matches”, cigarette loads” and “auto burglar
alarms”; sparklers; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which
paper or plastic caps containing twenty-five hundredths grains or less of
explosive compound are used; providing, they are so constructed that the hand
cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy
pistol paper or plastic caps which contain less than twenty hundredths grains
of explosive mixture; the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all
times. Should the state’s legislature change the definition of FIREWORKS in the
Fireworks Use Act, then the definition contained in this subchapter shall be
deemed to be amended in conformance with the definition in state law.
(2007 Code, § 30-3-1) (Ord. 03-05, passed - -)
§ 94.02 PROHIBITION OF SALES AND DISPLAY.
   Except as permitted by this subchapter, the transfer sale, use or display
within corporate limits of the village is prohibited.
(2007 Code, § 30-3-2) (Ord. 03-05, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 DISPLAY PERMITS; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Any not-for-profit group of three or more persons may obtain a
fireworks display permit for consumer fireworks by complying with the following
procedures.
      (1)   At least one member of the group shall be resident of the village.
      (2)   All the members of the group shall be 18 years of age or older.
      (3)   At least three members of the group shall sign an application form
provided by the village which will contain the following information, as a
minimum:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the members of the
group applying for the license;
         (b)   The date(s), time and location of the fireworks display for
which a permit is sought; provided, however, that, no displays shall be held
other than between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m.; and
         (c)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will
supervise the fireworks display.
   (B)   (1)   Permits for fireworks display shall be issued by the Mayor after
the Mayor, the Fire Chief and the Police Chief, or their designees, have
inspected the display site and determined that such displays shall not be
hazardous to property to endanger any person or persons.
      (2)   The original permit shall be sealed by the Village Clerk and kept
in possession of the supervising person, one copy pf each permit shall be kept
on file at the village office, and one copy shall be forwarded by the group to
the office of the state’s Fire Marshal, 1035 Stevenson Drive, Springfield,
Illinois, 62703.
      (3)   No fireworks display permit issued hereunder shall be transferable.
      (4)   Any accident shall be reported to the office of the state’s Fire
Marshal within 36 hours.
(2007 Code, § 30-3-6) (Ord. 03-05, passed - -)
§ 94.04 APPLICATION FEE.
   At the time of making application, the group shall submit a license
application fee in the amount of $5, which shall be non-refundable.
(2007 Code, § 30-3-4) (Ord. 03-05, passed - -)
§ 94.05 BOND.
   (A)   Each license shall be accompanied by a bond in the form approved by
the Village Board in a penal amount of less than $1,000, by which the licensee
guarantees compliance with the provisions of the Fireworks Use Act and State
Fire Marshal regulations adopted thereunder and said bond shall be deposited
with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   A signature bond will for the compliance with this section.
(2007 Code, § 30-3-5) (Ord. 03-05, passed - -)
§ 94.06 TIME REQUIREMENTS.
   Application for the fireworks display permit shall be made in writing at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the display, and action shall be taken
on the permit application within 48 by the Mayor.
(2007 Code, § 30-3-6) (Ord. 03-05, passed - -)
§ 94.07 FORMS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Inspection report.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1716.png]
 
   (B)   Display application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1718.png]
 
   (C)   Signature bond.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1720.png]
 
OPEN BURNING
§ 94.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated
on a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices including such
items as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials and crop residues,
but excluding landscape waste.
   GARBAGE or HOUSEHOLD TRASH. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cardboard or any refuse that comes out of the house, cooking and
consumption of food or food products, including plastic containers.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage and
agricultural waste. The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps,
brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery and yard trimmings.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment for which a permit could be issued under 415 ILCS 5/9(b) of
the Environmental Protection Act of the state.
(2007 Code, § 27-6-1)
§ 94.21 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or allow open burning of agricultural waste,
household trash or garbage.
(2007 Code, § 27-6-2) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 LANDSCAPE WASTE; BURNING RESTRICTION.
   The open burning of landscape waste shall be permitted only on the following
conditions.
   (A)   Landscape waste shall be burned on the premises on which such waste is
generated.
   (B)   Landscape waste shall be burned only when atmospheric conditions shall
readily dissipate contaminants.
   (C)   Landscape waste may be burned only if such burning does not create a
visibility hazard on roadways, walkways or railroad tracks.
   (D)   Open burning of landscape waste may only take place during daylight
hours with a person over 18 years of age in attendance during the entire period
of burning.
   (E)   No open burning of landscape waste shall be permitted on any streets
or roadways.
   (F)   No open burning shall occur during periods of time when the Mayor or
the Village Board have determined that atmospheric conditions or local
circumstances make such fires hazardous and dangerous.
(2007 Code, § 27-6-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who discharges or displays
fireworks without a display permit shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject
to a fine of not less than $75, nor more than $750.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation who transfers or sells fireworks to
a person without a display permit, shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$75, nor more than $750.
      (3)   Each transfer or sale of fireworks to a person lacking a display
license, or each use or display of fireworks without a display permit
constitutes a separate offense. In addition, any person found guilty of illegal
transfer, sale or display of fireworks shall be ineligible for a village
fireworks display permit for a period of five years.
(2007 Code, § 30-3-8)
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
   
95.01   Chicken and rabbit husbandry
§ 95.01 CHICKEN AND RABBIT HUSBANDRY.
   Notwithstanding any other section of this code, it shall be lawful for a
natural person to raise chickens and rabbits on premises used as their primary
residence under the following conditions:
   (A)   Any one individual per household may raise chickens and rabbits in the
Village of Oreana. Such owner to fail at any time to be fully and lawfully
entitled to receive garbage, rubbish and recyclables removal service from such
licensee.
   (B)   Failure to comply with any provision of this section or any applicable
section of the Revised Code of the Village of Oreana shall result in a fine of
a minimum of $75 per day.
   (C)   Chickens and rabbits may not be raised for sale or for any commercial
purposes. All eggs, meat, offspring and byproducts, must be consumed/used by
the family members living at the primary residence or may be given away or
disposed of in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Village of
Oreana and State of Illinois.
   (D)   Accumulations of waste and byproducts are not allowed. Waste and
byproducts must be regularly disposed of or utilized in a permitted manner to
avoid creating a nuisance.
   (E)   Excessive odor, noise or inhumane treatment of animals are hereby
declared nuisances under this code and subject to the fine as specified in
division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Inhumane treatment includes, but is not limited to the following:
      (1)   Failing to provide a sufficient quantity of good quality, wholesome
food and water;
      (2)   Failing to provide adequate shelter and protection from the
weather. A shelter must have four sides, a roof, floor, and bedding. The
shelter shall be placed to provide shade from the sun and protection from the
weather;
      (3)   Failing to provide veterinary care when needed to prevent
suffering; and
      (4)   Failing to provide other humane care and treatment.
   (G)   Limitation of the number of animals kept.
      (1)   Chickens.
         (a)   Persons keeping chickens for egg production may keep a maximum
of eight hens. Absolutely no male animals (cocks or roosters).
         (b)   Persons keeping chickens for meat production may have fowl of
either or both sexes. All cockerels must be slaughtered/harvested before
reaching 12 weeks of age. A maximum of 12 fowl may be kept at any one time.
         (c)   A person combining egg and meat production may at no time have
more than 18 birds of any age.
      (2)   Rabbits.
         (a)   No more than two breeding age bucks and five breeding age does
may be kept at any one time. Breeding age is defined as rabbits six months of
age and older.
         (b)   Rabbits not used as breeding stock shall be slaughtered/
harvested before they reach the age of four months.
   (H)   No pen, hutch, coop or other structure used in animal husbandry shall
be located less than 30 feet from the boundary line of an adjoining property
owner or no less than 50 feet from an adjoining residence or business which
ever distance is greater.
   (I)   All chickens and rabbits must be kept in enclosures that allow at
least four square feet of indoor space per adult animal and shall be kept in
rear or side yards.
   (J)   No chicken or rabbit shall be allowed to run at large within the
Village of Oreana.
   (K)   It shall not be lawful for residents of multiunit (more than two
units) apartment buildings to raise chickens and/or rabbits.
   (L)   Failure to comply with any provision of this section or any applicable
section of this code shall result in a fine in accordance with §
92.99.
(Ord. 2016/11/15-2, passed 11-15-2016; Ord. 2025/04-15-01, passed 4-15-2025)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
112.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
      
113.   SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
      
114.   VIDEO GAMING
      
115.   MUNICIPAL CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Rapid Entry Key Lockbox
   
110.01   Key lockbox entry system
   
110.02   Exceptions
   
110.03   Duties of owner, lessee, tenant or other party in control of structure
   
110.04   Location
   
110.05   Contents
   
110.06   Removal and tampering
 
   
110.99   Penalty
RAPID ENTRY KEY LOCKBOX
§ 110.01 KEY LOCKBOX ENTRY SYSTEM.
   The owner, lessee, tenant or other party in control of any structure in any
commercial, industrial or business area within the village, having been
constructed after 4-1-2006, shall have installed a key lockbox in an accessible
location approved by the Fire Chief and/or Police Chief.
(2007 Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 110.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following structures shall be exempt from the requirements of this
subchapter:
   (A)   Any building or site with 24-hour, seven-day a week on-site staff or
guard service shall not be required to provide a lockbox; and
   (B)   Any building for which the owner(s) and occupant(s) thereof file a
written application with the Fire Chief, requesting that the building be
exempt, and acknowledging that the Fire and/or Police Departments may use force
to enter the building, thereby potentially causing damage to the building, in
order to respond to an emergency and/or carry out the duties of the Fire and/or
Police Departments.
(2007 Code, § 7-4-2)
§ 110.03 DUTIES OF OWNER, LESSEE, TENANT OR OTHER PARTY IN CONTROL OF
STRUCTURE.
   It shall be the duty of any owner, lessee, tenant or other party in control
of any structure in any commercial, industrial or business area that is subject
to the provisions of this subchapter, to:
   (A)   Purchase an approved key lockbox by contacting the Fire Department and
obtaining the necessary authorization form;
   (B)   Provide the proper keys for the required access;
   (C)   To notify the Fire Department when the locks or keys have changed; and
   (D)   Keep the immediate area of the key box free and clear of any
instructions.
(2007 Code, § 7-4-3) (Ord. 06/19/07-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 LOCATION.
   (A)   The key lockbox shall be located within three feet of the recognized
public entrance, adjacent to the fire annunciator panel, on the exterior of the
structure or above the Fire Department Connection (FDC), when occupancy is
serviced by fire sprinkler system with internal control valves and wall mounted
(FDC).
   (B)   No steps, displays, signs or other fixtures or structure protrusions
shall be located under the box which could allow intruders to access the box
without assistance or hinder access to the box during emergency response.
   (C)   Flush mounted or surface recessed installation will be permitted;
provided that, the key box is clearly marked.
   (D)   The Fire Chief is authorized to modify the foregoing requirements on a
case-by-case basis.
(2007 Code, § 7-4-4) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 CONTENTS.
   (A)   The box shall contain the keys for the areas listed in this chapter as
they apply to each structure.
   (B)   The keys shall be labeled so as to be easily identifiable in the
field:
      (1)   The main entrance door;
      (2)   Alarm room and/or fire alarm control panel;
      (3)   Electrical rooms, mechanical rooms and sprinkler control rooms;
      (4)   Keys or tools to reset pull-stations or other fire protection
devices; and
      (5)   Elevator keys.
(2007 Code, § 7-4-5)
§ 110.06 REMOVAL AND TAMPERING.
   Removal of any key by any person, other than Fire Department or Police
Department personnel who are acting in the course of their official Fire or
Police Department duties, shall be a violation of this subchapter. Tampering
with or causing damage to any key lockbox on any building by any person, other
than Fire Department or Police Department personnel who are acting in the
course of their official Fire or Police Department duties, shall be a violation
of this subchapter.
(2007 Code, § 7-4-6) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or entity violating §§
110.01 through
110.06 of this chapter shall be subject to the penalties at set forth in §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
(2007 Code, § 7-4-7)
CHAPTER 111: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
111.01   Applications
   
111.02   Persons subject to license
   
111.03   Form of license
   
111.04   Investigations
   
111.05   Fees
   
111.06   Termination of licenses
   
111.07   Buildings and premises
   
111.08   Change of location
   
111.09   Location
   
111.10   Nuisances prohibited
   
111.11   Inspections
   
111.12   Suspension, revocation of license or permit
   
111.13   Appeals
   
111.14   License to be posted
   
111.15   Business vehicle sticker
§ 111.01 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this business
title shall be made in writing to the Municipal Clerk in the absence of
provision to the contrary.
      (2)   Each application shall contain:
         (a)   The name of the applicant;
         (b)   The permit or license desired;
         (c)   The location to be used, if any;
         (d)   Zoning district, if any;
         (e)   The time covered; and
         (f)   The fee to be paid.
      (3)   (a)   Each application shall also contain the number the
certificates of registration required under the Retailer’s Occupation Tax Act
35 ILCS 120/1 et seq., Service Occupation Tax Act 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq. and/or
Use Tax Act 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq., if applicable.
         (b)   Each application shall contain such additional information as
may be needed for the proper guidance of the municipal officials in the issuing
of the license or permit applied for.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-1)
   (B)   License application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1722.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1724.png]
§ 111.02 PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever a license or permit is required in this code of ordinances or in
any municipal ordinance for the maintenance, operation or conduct of any
business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in any activity or
occupation, any person, firm or corporation shall be subject to the requirement
if by himself, herself or itself, or through an agent, employee or partner, he,
she or it is held forth as being engaged in the business, activity or
occupation, or if he, she or it solicits patronage therefore actively or
passively; or if he, she or it performs or attempts to perform any part of such
business, activity or occupation in the municipality.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 111.03 FORM OF LICENSE.
   Every license shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk under
the corporate seal, and no license shall be valid until signed and
countersigned as aforesaid, nor shall any person be deemed to be licensed until
the same shall have been issued to him or her in due form.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1726.png]
 
(2007 Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 111.04 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where an
investigation or inspection is required by ordinance before the issuance of
such permit or license, or where an inspection or investigation shall be deemed
reasonably necessary or appropriate, the Clerk, within 48 hours shall refer the
application to the appropriate official(s) for the making of such investigation
or inspection.
   (B)   The official(s) to whom the application has been referred shall make a
report thereon, favorable or otherwise within ten days after receiving such
application or a copy thereof.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or the county’s Health Department shall make or
cause to be made an inspection regarding such permits and licenses as relate to
the care and handling of food, the prevention of nuisances and the spread of
disease and the protection of health. The Zoning Administrator shall make or
cause to be made any inspections which relate to compliance with the Zoning
Code and other related regulations. All other investigations, except where
otherwise provided, shall be made by the police or by some other officer
designated by the Mayor.
   (D)   Upon receipt of all related investigative reports, the Clerk shall
forward such reports, together with the application, to the Mayor for
evaluation and determination.
   (E)   If it shall appear to the Mayor that the matters and circumstances
relating to an application require further information before a proper
determination can be made, such application shall be returned to the Clerk for
the inclusion of such additional information as may be specified necessary and
appropriate.
   (F)   If, after due consideration of the information contained with the
application and the related investigative reports, the Mayor shall determine
that the matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory, he or she may
disapprove such application, indicating the reasons therefor. Thereupon, the
Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant that his or her
application is disapproved and that no license or permit will be issued.
   (G)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the Mayor shall determine
that the application is satisfactory, he or she shall approve the application.
Thereupon, the Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant that
his or her application is approved and the license or permit may be issued.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 111.05 FEES.
   (A)   In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the Clerk in the amounts prescribed by the corporate authorities.
   (B)   When an applicant has not engaged in the business or activity until
after the expiration of the current license year, the license fee shall be
prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof
during which the business or activity has been or will be conducted.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided, all license and permit fees shall become
a part of the corporate fund.
   (D)   In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any license or
permit fee, or part thereof, by reason of death or departure of the licensee or
permittee; nor shall any rebate or refund be made by reason of non-use of the
license or discontinuance of the operation or conduct of the licensed
establishment, business or activity.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 111.06 TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall be operative and the license year for this
municipality shall commence on May 1 of each year and shall terminate on April
30 of the following year, where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The Clerk shall notify all licensees of the municipality of the time
of expiration of the license held by the licensee (if an annual), three weeks
prior to the date of such expiration; provided, however, that, a failure to
make such notification or the failure of the licensee to receive it shall not
excuse the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new licensee or a renewal
thereof, nor shall it be a defense in an action based upon operation without a
license.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-6)
§ 111.07 BUILDINGS AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for any purpose or activity, if the premises and building to be
used for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the municipality and the state. No such license or permit shall
be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any act which would
involve a violation of this code or ordinances and/or other applicable
regulations of the municipality.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 111.08 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or the location of any
permitted act may be changed; provided that, ten days’ notice thereof is given
to the Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided
further, however, that, all applicable ordinances and regulations of the
municipality shall be complied with.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-8)
§ 111.09 LOCATION.
   No license for the operation of a business or establishment in the
municipality shall be construed to permit the operation of a licensed business
or establishment in more than one location in the municipality; a separate
license shall be required for each location of a licensed establishment. For
the purpose of this code of ordinances, the existence of a single location
shall be evidenced by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or
accessory uses shall be connected or shall be located on the same lot or
parcel, shall be operated and managed by the same person or owner and shall be
an establishment with the same classification.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-9)
§ 111.10 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Generally. No business or establishment, whether licensed or not,
shall be so conducted or operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact and no
building, vehicle or structure, yard, lot, premises or part thereof shall be
used, kept, maintained or operated in connection with any business or
establishment so as to occasion any nuisance or so as to be dangerous to life
or detrimental to health. (The county’s Health Department should be consulted.)
   (B)   Unsafe or unhealthful business.
      (1)   No building or structure utilized, constructed or maintained in
connection with any business or occupation shall evidence an unsanitary, unsafe
or dangerous condition.
      (2)   No substance, matter or thing of any kind whatsoever, which would
be dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be allowed to exist in connection
with any business or occupation or be used in any work or labor performed in
the municipality.
   (C)   Refuse disposal.
      (1)   Refuse containers. The standard refuse container required by this
code of ordinances shall be supplied by the trash hauler and constructed of
impervious material and sturdy construction with a tight-fitting cover and
equipped with handles properly placed to facilitate handling.
      (2)   Duty to provide refuse containers.
         (a)   The occupant of every building, structure or premises used or
maintained in connection with any business or occupation shall provide and
maintain in good condition and repair a sufficient number of refuse containers
for the temporary storage of all refuse accumulating between collections.
         (b)   All refuse which is placed for collection service outside any
building or structure must be kept in standard refuse containers.
      (3)   Refuse removal. It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
building, structure or premises used or maintained in connection with any
business or occupation to cause to be removed, at his or her own cost and
expense, at least once each week, all refuse produced therein.
      (4)   Removal of restaurant garbage. Every person owning or controlling
any hotel, restaurant, café or retail food establishment where more than 32
gallons of refuse, is normally produced weekly shall cause all garbage to be
placed in sanitary refuse containers and shall cause all substances deposited
in such containers to be removed daily from his or her premises and to be
disposed of at his or her own expense.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.11 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
ordinance or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the provisions
of any ordinance or regulation of the municipality, or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the
premises to admit thereto, for the purpose of making the inspection, any
officer or employee of the municipality who is duly authorized to make such
inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or
regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly authorized
officer or employee of the municipality requesting the same, sufficient samples
of such material or commodity for such analysis upon official request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke the license of any owner or operator of a licensed business in the
municipality who refuses to permit any duly authorized officer or employee to
make such inspection or to take adequate sample(s) of said commodity, or who
interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his or her
duties; provided, however, that, no license shall be subject to revocation for
such cause unless such officer or employee has been refused permission to enter
upon the premises in the name of the municipality after having first presented
a warrant authorizing such entry.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-12)
§ 111.12 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   Nuisance. When the conduct or operation of any business or
establishment, whether or not licensed, shall constitute a nuisance in fact and
a clear and present danger to the public health, safety or general welfare, the
Mayor shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the
closing of the premises, and the suspension of any license or permit for a
period not to exceed ten days.
   (B)   Hearing. Within eight days after he or she has so acted, the Mayor
shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the license
or permit should be revoked.
   (C)   Revocation. Licenses and permits issued in the municipality, unless
otherwise provided, may be revoked by the Mayor after notice and hearing as
provided in divisions (D) and (E) below for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
      (2)   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of code provisions
relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit
or the premises occupied;
      (3)   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (4)   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owed to the municipality;
      (5)   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference
with a duly authorized officer or employee in the performance of his or her
duties in making such inspections, as provided in §
111.11 of this chapter; and/or
      (6)   Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and
imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of other
applicable code regulations of the municipality.
   (D)   Hearing notice. Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the licensee or permittee at his
or her last known address at least five days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
   (E)   Counsel. At the hearing, the Attorney for the municipality shall
present the complaint and shall represent the municipality. The licensee or
permittee shall be permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit
evidence and cross-examine witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render
the decision.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-13)
§ 111.13 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Mayor regarding the denial of an
application for a business license as provided in §
111.04 of this chapter or in connection with the revocation of a license or
permit as provided in §
111.12 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Village Board.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Clerk, within ten days after
notice of a denial of an application or a revocation of a license or permit, a
written statement under oath setting forth specifically the grounds for appeal.
The Mayor shall, thereupon, set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal
and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant or licensee or
permittee in the same manner as provided in §
111.13 of this chapter. The decision of the Village Board on such appeal shall
be final.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-14)
§ 111.14 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   It shall be the duty of every person conducting a licensed business in the
municipality to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business at all times.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-15)
§ 111.15 BUSINESS VEHICLE STICKER.
   Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis in whole or in part for a
license fee, the Clerk shall furnish the licensee with a tag or sticker for
each vehicle covered by the license and such tag or sticker shall be posted or
affixed in a conspicuous place on each business vehicle.
(2007 Code, § 7-1-16)
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.001   Definitions
Licenses
   
112.015   License required
   
112.016   Applications
   
112.017   Examination of applicant
   
112.018   Prohibited licensees
   
112.019   Term; fee submitted in advance
   
112.020   Classification; fee; limitation
   
112.021   Nature of license
   
112.022   Limitation of licenses
   
112.023   Display of license
   
112.024   Records of licenses
Conditions and Regulations
   
112.035   Hours
   
112.036   Change of location
   
112.037   Stores selling school supplies, lunches and the like
   
112.038   Transporting and the like in motor vehicles
   
112.039   Open liquor; cup-to-go prohibited
   
112.040   Liquor in vehicles; underage
   
112.041   Restricted residential areas
   
112.042   Election days
   
112.043   Unlawful acts
   
112.044   Sanitary conditions
   
112.045   Health permit
   
112.046   Peddling
   
112.047   Disorderly house
   
112.048   Prohibited sales generally
   
112.049   Persons selling liquor
   
112.050   Unlawful purchase of liquor
   
112.051   Identification required
   
112.052   Transfer of identification card
   
112.053   Posting warning
   
112.054   Exclusionary provision
   
112.055   Inspections
   
112.056   Books and records; available upon reasonable notice and maintained in
state records
   
112.057   Licensee restrictions
   
112.058   Selling false identification
   
112.059   False identification
   
112.060   Underage drinking on streets
   
112.061   Residential drinking
   
112.062   Renting hotel rooms for drinking
Violations
   
112.075   Owner of premises permitting violation
   
112.076   Acts of agent or employee; liability; knowledge
   
112.077   Revocation of license after conviction
   
112.078   Revocation fo license when employee convicted
   
112.079   Misbranding
   
112.080   Abatement of place used in violation
   
112.081   Use of premises for one year after revocation
   
112.082   Revocation of licenses
   
112.083   Complaint by residents
   
112.084   Revocation or suspension of local license; notice and hearing
   
112.085   Appeals from order of Liquor Commissioner
   
112.086   Subsequent violations in a year
   
112.087   Appeal limitations for subsequent violation
 
   
112.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
      ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every
liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer,
and capable of being consumed as a beverage by human beings. The provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured
alcohol produced in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations
promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5% or less of
alcohol by volume.
      BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
      CATERER RETAILER. A person who serves alcoholic liquors for consumption,
either on-site or off-site, whether the location is licensed or unlicensed, as
an incidental part of food service. Prepared meals and alcoholic liquors are
sold at a package price agreed upon under contract.
      CLOSE. To shut up so as to prevent entrance or access by any person; and
the entire suspension of business.
      CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of the state and not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members, through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants and
employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members and
their guests; provided that, such CLUB files with the Mayor at the time of its
application for a license under this chapter, two copies of a list of names and
residences of its members, and similarly files within ten days of the election
of any additional member, his or her name and address; and, provided further
that, its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting and that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid,
or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation
any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the CLUB or
its members or guests introduced by members, beyond the amount of such salary
as may be fixed and voted at the annual meeting by the members or by the board
of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the CLUB.
      CORPORATION. Any corporation, domestic or foreign, qualified to do
business in the state under the Business Corporation Act, 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et
seq., of the state.
(Rule 100.10)
      DISTILLED SPIRITS. See SPIRITS.
      EVENT. A single theme.
(Rules and Regulations 100.10)
      HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually
served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to
travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 25
or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same
building or buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings,
structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen or
dining room equipment and capacity.
      MANAGER or AGENT. Any individual employed by any licensed place of
business; provided, said individual possess the same qualifications required of
the licensee. Satisfactory evidence of such employment will be furnished the
Commission in the form and manner as such Commission shall from time to time
prescribe.
(Rule 100.10)
      MAYOR. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner as provided in 235 ILCS and
all references to Liquor Commissioner shall refer to the Mayor unless otherwise
provided.
      MEAL. Food that is prepared and served on the licensed premises and
excludes the serving of snacks.
(Rules and Regulations 100.10)
      ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg,
hogshead or other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped,
sealed and labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to
convey any alcoholic liquor.
      PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. Any public place where packaged liquors are offered
for sale in the original, unopened container for consumption away from the
premises.
      PARTNER. Any individual who is a member of a co-partnership.
COPARTNERSHIP means an association of two or more persons to carry on as co-
owners of a business for profit.
(Rules and Regulations 100.10)
      PREMISES/PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place or location where alcoholic
beverages are manufactured, stored, displayed, offered for sale or where drinks
containing alcoholic beverages are mixed, concocted and served for consumption.
Not included are sidewalks, street, parking areas and grounds adjacent to any
such place or location.
(Rules and Regulations 100.10)
      PRIVATE FUNCTION. A prearranged private party, function or event for a
specific social or business occasion, either by invitation or reservation and
not open to the general public, where the guests in attendance are served in a
room or rooms designated and used exclusively for the private party, function
or event.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any premises enclosed or unenclosed or partly enclosed and
partly unenclosed wherein any service or goods, chattels or merchandise are
offered for sale to the public or any such premises used as a clubhouse, club
room or meeting place. The terms PUBLIC PLACE and PUBLIC PREMISES shall be
interchangeable for the purposes of this chapter.
      RESIDENT. Any person (other than a corporation) who has resided and
maintained a bona fide residence in the state for at least one year and in the
city, village and county in which the premises covered by the license are
located for at least 90 days prior to making application for such license.
(Rule 100.10)
      RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held
out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually
are served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
      RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use
or consumption and not for resale in any form.
      SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
      SELL AT RETAIL and SALE OF RETAIL. Any mean sales for use or consumption
and not for resale in any form.
      SPECIAL EVENT. An event conducted by an educational, fraternal,
political, civic, religious or non-profit organization.
      SPECIAL EVENTS RETAILER. An educational, fraternal, political, civic,
religious or non-profit organization which sells or offers for sale beer or
wine, or both, only for consumption at the location and on the dates designated
by a special event retail license.
      SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation,
mixed with water or other substance in solution and includes brandy, rum,
whiskey, gin or other spirituous liquors and such liquors when rectified,
blended or otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
      TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
      WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits as above defined.
   (B)   All references to “Rules” or “Regulations” above refer to state’s
Liquor Control Commission Rules located in Title II, Subt. A, Ch. 1, part 1, §§
100.5 et seq.
(2007 Code, § 21-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/1-3.02, 5/1-3.03, 5/1-3.04, 5/1-3.05, 5/
1-3.06, 5/1-3.17, 5/1-3.17.1, 5/1-3.18, 5/1-3.21, 5/1-3.22, 5/1-3.23, 5/1-3.24,
5/1-3.25, 5/1-3.30, 5/1-3.34
LICENSES
§ 112.015 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, keep or offer for sale at retail, or conduct
anyplace for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor within the limits and
territory of the municipality without having a license to do so, issued by the
Mayor of the municipality in the manner hereinafter provided and a valid
license for such purpose issued by the state’s Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (B)   A similar valid license issued by the Mayor of the municipality is
hereby required for and with respect to each building, location and premises,
within the aforesaid territory of the municipality, at or upon which alcoholic
liquor is to be sold or kept or offered for sale at retail.
(2007 Code, § 21-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 112.016 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to grant and issue licenses to individuals,
firms and corporations to sell at retail and to keep and offer for sale at
retail alcoholic liquors within the limits and territory of the municipality
upon the conditions and in the manner provided by this chapter and by the Act
of the General Assembly of the state, and not otherwise. Such license shall be
in writing, signed by the Mayor and attested by the Municipal Clerk, with the
seal of his or her office affixed thereto.
   (B)   Prior to issuance of a license, the applicant must submit to the Mayor
an application in triplicate, in writing and under oath, stating the following:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the object for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers, directors and the name of the person who will be
managing the establishment for which the license is sought, and if a majority
in interest of the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his
nominee, the address and name of such person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and, if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant and, in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been engaged in the
business of that character or in the case of a corporation, the date on which
its charter was issued;
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      (6)   Whether applicant has made similar application for a similar other
license on premises other than described in the application and the disposition
of such application;
      (7)   The applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is not
disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in
the aforesaid Act of the General Assembly or in this chapter or resolution and
amendments thereto;
      (8)   Whether a previous license issued to the applicant by any state, or
subdivision thereof, or by the federal government has been revoked and the
reasons therefor; and
      (9)   He or she will not violate any of the laws of the state or of the
United States, or any of the provisions of this chapter or resolution and
amendments thereto in the conduct of his or her place of business.
   (C)   In the case of a partnership or corporation, the information and
statements required by this section shall be furnished as to each partner, and
with respect to a corporation, the information and statements required by this
section shall be furnished as to the president of the corporation, the
secretary of the corporation, the directors of the corporation and with respect
to the person who is to manage the establishment for which a license is sought.
   (D)   In addition to any other requirement, an applicant for a special event
(SE) license shall also submit proof, satisfactory to the Local Liquor
Commissioner, that the applicant is an educational, fraternal, political,
civic, religious or non-profit organization.
   (E)   If the application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to by
at least one member of such partnership, firm, association or club or by the
president and secretary of such corporation.
   (F)   One copy of the application shall be retained by the Mayor, one copy
given to the Chief of Police; the Chief of Police shall endorse on the copies
his or her approval or disapproval of the application and may make further
comments regarding that application. The copies shall be returned to the Mayor
and the endorsement and comment of the Chief of Police shall be considered by
him or her as an aid in deciding whether the license should be issued or
refused.
(2007 Code, § 21-2-2)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1728.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1730.png]
 
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-1
§ 112.017 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT.
   The Mayor shall have the right to examine or cause to be examined, under
oath, any applicant for a local license or for renewal thereof, or any licensee
upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been served in the manner
hereinafter provided, and to examine or cause to be examined, the books and
records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof for
his or her information in the performance of his or her duties, and for such
purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state.
For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Mayor under
this section, he or she may authorize his or her agent to act on his or her
behalf.
(2007 Code, § 21-2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-5
§ 112.018 PROHIBITED LICENSEES.
   No retail license shall be issued by the Mayor to the following:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the municipality;
   (B)   A person who is not 21 years of age;
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law if the Mayor determines, after investigation, that such person has not been
sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality;
   (F)   A person whose license has previously been revoked for cause;
   (G)   A person who, at the time of the application for renewal for any
license issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon first
application;
   (H)   A co-partnership, if any general partnership thereof or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in such co-partnership would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason;
   (I)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 5% of such corporation, would not
be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than the
requirement for citizenship and residence;
   (J)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act of
1983, 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq., to transact business in the state;
   (K)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee;
   (L)   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor license;
   (M)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (N)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this code or ordinances or has forfeited his or
her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
   (O)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not rent nor have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued;
   (P)   Any law enforcing public official, including members of local liquor
control commissions, any mayor, alderman or member of a city council or
commission, any president of a village board of trustees, any member of a
village board of trustees, or any president or member of a county board; and no
such official shall be interested directly in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor; except that, license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises which are not located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such license is
approved by the state’s Liquor Control Commission and the Mayor;
   (Q)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (R)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
any of 720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(12), or as proscribed by 720 ILCS 5/
28-3 of the Crimes Code, as heretofore or hereafter amended, or as proscribed
by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
   (S)   A person to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by the
federal government for the current tax period; except those persons who are
eligible to receive a license under the Raffles Act, 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
or the state’s Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act, 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.;
   (T)   A co-partnership to which a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government for the current tax period, or if any of the partners
have been issued a federal gaming device stamp or federal wagering stamp by the
federal government for the current tax period;
   (U)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 20% of the stock of such
corporation has been issued a federal wagering stamp for the current tax
period; and
   (V)   Any premises for which a federal wagering stamp has been issued by the
Federal Government for the current tax period.
(2007 Code, § 21-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-2
§ 112.019 TERM; FEE SUBMITTED IN ADVANCE.
   (A)   Retail Class A liquor licenses issued under this chapter shall be
valid for six-month periods upon the payment of the license fee as hereinafter
set forth unless sooner revoked or suspended. The six-month periods shall be
from January 1 to June 30 and July 1 to December 31 of the same year.
   (B)   The license fee shall be payable in advance by the applicant for a
license at the time the application for a license is submitted to the Mayor, as
hereinbefore provided. A licensee may make arrangements to pay the liquor
license fees quarterly. In the event the license is denied, the license fee
shall be returned to the applicant. The fees shall be deposited in the
Municipal General Fund. The application for a license shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   Licenses shall state thereon the names of the licensees and the
address and description of the premises for which they are granted and the
dates of their issuance and expiration.
   (D)   With respect to a corporation operating an establishment for which a
liquor license has been issued, should the manager of said establishment change
after the issuance of said liquor license, the corporation must submit the new
manager’s name and shall be submitted within 30 days. Continuation of the
license will be contingent upon a background check of the new manager as set
out in this chapter, and all fees shall be waived should the license be changed
only as a result of a change of managers. If, for some reason, the manager is
not acceptable, the licensee shall have 30 days to submit a new name before
revocation. Failure to provide new information shall be grounds for suspension
or revocation of said license.
(2007 Code, § 21-2-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 112.020 CLASSIFICATION; FEE; LIMITATION.
   (A)   Every person engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the
village shall pay an annual license fee.
   (B)   There shall be three classes of licenses:
      (1)   Class A license. There is hereby created a Class A liquor license,
which shall authorize retail sale of alcoholic liquor in original package for
consumption off the premises. The annual fee shall be $1,200. There shall be a
limit of one Class A license issued within the village at any one time;
      (2)   Class SE license. There is hereby created a Class SE liquor license
which shall authorize retail sale of beer and/or wine by a special events
retailer, during a special event, at a specified location, for a defined
period, not to exceed 15 days per licensee per location in any 12-month period.
The fee shall be $25, payable at time application for license is made; and
(2007 Code, § 21-2-6)
      (3)   Class VG license. There is hereby created a Class VG liquor license
which shall incorporate the privileges of the Class A liquor license and, in
addition, allow the retail sale beer and wine in its original packaging for on
premises consumption. All beer and wine consumption shall be confined to the
area designated for video gaming. No open containers shall be allowed outside
the video gaming area. Hours for the retail sale of beer for on premises
consumption shall be from 5:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2015-05-19-3, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 112.021 NATURE OF LICENSE.
   A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal privilege,
good for not to exceed one year after issued, or 15 days in the case of a
special event (SE) license, unless sooner revoked, as in this chapter,
authorized and provided, and shall not constitute property; nor shall it be
subject to attachment, garnishment or execution; nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee;
provided that, executors and administrators of any estate of the deceased
licensee and the trustees of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such
estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the
sale of alcoholic liquor under the order of the court having jurisdiction of
such estate and may exercise the privileges of such deceased, insolvent or
bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent or such insolvency or
bankruptcy until the expiration of such license, but not longer than six months
after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
(2007 Code, § 21-2-7)
§ 112.022 LIMITATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Annexing license holders. The restrictions contained in this chapter
shall in no way affect taverns and other business(es) holding retail liquor
licenses, duly licensed by the county, which are located in the territory
annexed to the municipality. Licenses may be issued to them or renewed by the
duly constituted authorities upon annexation; provided that, thereafter, all of
the restrictions and contingencies contained herein shall apply.
   (B)   Destroyed or damaged business. No license shall be held in existence
by the mere payment of fees by any person, firm or corporation for a period
longer than 90 days without a tavern or liquor business for the same being in
complete and full operation. However, if a tavern or liquor business has been
destroyed or damaged by fire or act of God and cannot be rebuilt or repaired
within the 90-day period, then, in that event, the Mayor shall extend the
period of time for which a liquor license may be held by the mere payment of
fees without the tavern or liquor business being in full and complete operation
for an additional 90 days.
   (C)   Expiration. If either of the above stated periods of time passes
without the particular tavern or liquor business returning to complete and full
operation, the license for that particular business shall expire and not be
subject to renewal, unless all other requirements of this chapter shall have
been met.
(2007 Code, § 21-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 112.023 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under this chapter shall cause his or her license to be
framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(2007 Code, § 21-2-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-24
§ 112.024 RECORDS OF LICENSES.
   The Mayor shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued by him or her
and shall supply the Clerk, Treasurer and Chief of Police a copy of the same.
Upon issuance or revocation of a license, the Mayor shall give written notice
to these same officers within 48 hours.
(2007 Code, § 21-2-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 112.035 HOURS.
   The hours for retail liquor licenses shall be as follows.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licenses to give or sell or offer for
sale or gift or in any way provide any alcoholic liquors, spirits, beer or wine
in the village during the following hours:
Hours of Closing
Hours of Closing
Monday    From 1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Tuesday   From 1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Wednesday From 1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Thursday  From 1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Friday    From 1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Saturday  From 1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Sunday    From 1:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.
 
   (B)   The times referred to above shall refer to Daylight Saving Time or
when the same is in effect in the village and, upon cessation of Daylight
Saving Time, shall be Central Standard Time.
   (C)   All patrons or customers shall leave the premises at the specified
closing time and shall not remain on the premises thereafter.
   (D)   On January 1, a licensee may sell until 2:00 a.m.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-1) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 112.036 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor only on the premises described in the application and license.
   (B)   Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such
change issued by the Mayor.
   (C)   No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the law
of the state and the code of the municipality.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-14
§ 112.037 STORES SELLING SCHOOL SUPPLIES, LUNCHES AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such
minors.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-3) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-12
§ 112.038 TRANSPORTING AND THE LIKE IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall, within this municipality, transport, carry, possess or have
any alcoholic liquor in, upon or about any motor vehicle in or on any public
street, alley or place, except in the original package and with the seal
unbroken.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-4) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.039 OPEN LIQUOR; CUP-TO-GO PROHIBITED.
   The licensee shall not knowingly permit any person to leave his or her
premises with open liquor or in a “cup-to-go”.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-5) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.040 LIQUOR IN VEHICLES; UNDERAGE.
   The presence in a vehicle other than a public vehicle of any alcoholic
liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of and is
being carried by all persons occupying such vehicle at the time of which such
alcoholic liquor is found, except under the following circumstances:
   (A)   If such liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants therein;
or
   (B)   If such vehicle contains at least one occupant over 21 years of age.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-6) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.041 RESTRICTED RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to establish a retail liquor business within the
municipality in violation of the restrictions of the Zoning Code.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-7) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.042 ELECTION DAYS.
   All such licensees may sell alcoholic liquor at retail, by the drink or in
the original package for consumption either on or off the premises licensed on
the day of any national, state, county or municipal election, including primary
elections during the hours the polls are open within the political area in
which such election is being held and on Sundays; subject to all the remaining
terms, conditions and opening hours and closing hours as set forth in this
chapter.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-8)
§ 112.043 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do or commit any of the following
acts within the village, to-wit:
   (A)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any public street, alley, sidewalk or
other public way without special permission granted by the Mayor;
   (B)   Drink any alcoholic liquors in any public park, except with the
permission of the Mayor;
   (C)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any private property without permission
of an owner thereof; and
   (D)   Appear on or in any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public
place including parks and recreation areas, in an intoxicated condition.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-10) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.044 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of such liquor for such sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be kept in full compliance with the codes regulating the condition of
the premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-11) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 410 ILCS 650/1 et seq.
§ 112.045 HEALTH PERMIT.
   Every licensee shall have, at all times, a valid operating permit from the
county’s Health Department, which regulates health standards.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-12) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.046 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the municipality.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-13) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 112.047 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   Any person licensed under this chapter shall not suffer or permit any
disorder, drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, unlawful games or riotous or
disorderly conduct in any house or premises kept or occupied by him or her for
the sale of liquor.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-14) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 112.048 PROHIBITED SALES GENERALLY.
   (A)   No licensee, nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee, shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of 21 years or to any intoxicated person or to any
person known by him or her to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane or
mentally ill.
   (B)   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor
shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of 21 years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-16) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 112.049 PERSONS SELLING LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to attend any
bar to sell, draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail
premises or 18 years to sell any alcoholic liquor in any Class A licensed
retail premises.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-17) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 112.050 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF LIQUOR.
   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such alcoholic
liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his or her possession.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-18) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-20
§ 112.051 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   If a licensee or his or her agents or employees believe or have reason
to believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of the age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before making
such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive
identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the
performance of his or her official duties.
   (B)   Proof that the defendant/licensee or his or her employees or agent
demanded, was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any
transaction forbidden by this section is competent evidence and may be
considered in any criminal prosecution therefor or in any proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-19) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-20
§ 112.052 TRANSFER OF IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification
card; use the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information.
      (2)   No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the age of 21
years is forbidden, except as otherwise permitted under this code and state
law.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-20) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-20
§ 112.053 POSTING WARNING.
   In every licensed business where alcoholic liquor is sold, there shall be
displayed, at all times in a prominent place, a printed card which shall be
supplied by the Municipal Clerk, and which shall read as follows:
 
UNDERAGE LIQUOR WARNING
You are subject to a fine up to $750 under the ordinances of this municipality
if you purchase alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
 
(2007 Code, § 21-3-21) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.054 EXCLUSIONARY PROVISION.
   The possession and dispensing or consumption by an underage person of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the
consumption by an underage person under the direct supervision and approval of
the parent or parents of such underage person in the privacy of a home is not
prohibited by this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-22)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-20
§ 112.055 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant admittance to the premises for which
a license has been issued at any time upon the verbal request of the Chief of
Police, any police officer or the Liquor Commissioner for the purpose of making
an inspection of such premises or any part thereof.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-23) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-4
§ 112.056 BOOKS AND RECORDS; AVAILABLE UPON REASONABLE NOTICE AND MAINTAINED IN
STATE RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to make books and
records available upon reasonable notice for the purpose of investigation and
control by the Mayor having jurisdiction over the licensee.
   (B)   Such books and records need not be maintained on the licensed
premises, but must be maintained in the state.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-24) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-10
§ 112.057 LICENSEE RESTRICTIONS.
   In addition to the restrictions on licensing, the holder of a license is
subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee to accept, receive or borrow money or
anything of value directly or indirectly from any manufacturer or distributor
of alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   No licensee licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall deny
or permit his or her agents or employees to deny any person the full and equal
enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities and privileges of any
premises in which alcoholic liquors are authorized to be sold subject only to
the conditions and limitations established bylaw and applicable alike to all
citizens.
   (C)   No licensee shall sell liquor to any persons on credit, or in payment
for services rendered, but this does not apply to clubs and hotels and liquor
purchased for consumption off the premises.
   (D)   No licensee shall fill or refill in whole or in part any original
package of alcohol with the same or other liquor and no liquor shall be sold,
except in original packages.
   (E)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or delivered in any building
belonging to or under the control of a municipality, except in connection with
the operation of an established food service facility or at a site specifically
provided for in the act and where dram shop insurance coverage is provided.
   (F)   (1)   An established place of business is a prerequisite to the
issuance of a license.
      (2)   Revocation of a license when a licensee ceases to operate the
business before the license expires is within the authority of the Commissioner
on the grounds of non-use.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-25) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-5, 5/6-15, 5/6-17 and 5/6-22 and Goode
V. Thomas 31 Ill. App. 3d 674, 1975
§ 112.058 SELLING FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   Any person who sells, gives or furnishes to any person under the age of 21
years any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence of the
age and identity of such person or who sells, gives or furnishes to any person
under the age of 21 years evidence of age and identification of any other
person is guilty of violating this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-26) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 112.059 FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   Any person under the age of 21 years who presents or offers to any licensee,
his or her agent or employee, any written, printed or photostatic evidence of
age and identity which is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own for
the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase or otherwise
procuring or attempting to procure, the serving of any alcoholic beverage or
who has in his or her possession any false or fraudulent, written, printed or
photostatic evidence of age and identity, is guilty of violating this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-27) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 112.060 UNDERAGE DRINKING ON STREETS.
   (A)   Any person under the age of 21 years who has any alcoholic beverage in
his or her possession on any street or highway or in any public place, or in
any place open to the public is guilty of violating this chapter.
   (B)   This section does not apply to possession by a person under the age of
21 years making a delivery of an alcoholic beverage in pursuance of the order
of his or her parent or in pursuance of his or her employment.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-28) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 112.061 RESIDENTIAL DRINKING.
   (A)   Any person shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter where he or
she knowingly permits a gathering at a residence which he or she occupies of
two or more persons where any one or more of the persons is under 21 years of
age and the following factors also apply:
      (1)   The person occupying the residence knows that any such person under
the age of 21 is in possession of or is consuming any alcoholic beverage;
      (2)   The possession or consumption of the alcohol by the person under 21
is not otherwise permitted by this chapter; and
      (3)   The person occupying the residence knows that the person under the
age of 21 leaves the residence in an intoxicated condition.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, where the residence has an owner and
a tenant or lessee, there is a rebuttable presumption that the residence is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-29) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 112.062 RENTING HOTEL ROOMS FOR DRINKING.
   Any person who rents a hotel or motel room from the proprietor or agent
thereof for the purpose of or with the knowledge that such room shall be used
for the consumption of alcoholic liquor by persons under the age of 21 years
shall be guilty of violating this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 21-3-30) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
VIOLATIONS
§ 112.075 OWNER OF PREMISES PERMITTING VIOLATION.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such owner or
person shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said licensed premises in
violation of the terms of this chapter, said owner, agent or other person shall
be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent as said
licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-2
§ 112.076 ACTS OF AGENT OR EMPLOYEE; LIABILITY; KNOWLEDGE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such employer or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in
the same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him or
her personally.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-3
§ 112.077 REVOCATION OF LICENSE AFTER CONVICTION.
   Whenever any licensee shall be convicted of any violation of this chapter,
the license of said licensee may, in the discretion of the Mayor, be revoked
and forfeited and all fees paid thereon shall be forfeited, and it shall
thereafter be unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of this chapter
for said licensee to continue to operate under such license.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-3) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-4
§ 112.078 REVOCATION OF LICENSE WHEN EMPLOYEE CONVICTED.
   Whenever any officer, director, manager or other employee of any licensee
under this chapter shall be convicted of any violation of this chapter while
engaged in the course of his or her employment or while upon the premises
described by the license, the license may be revoked and the fees paid thereon
forfeited, both as to the holder of the license and as to the premises, as if
said licensee had himself or herself been convicted.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-5
§ 112.079 MISBRANDING.
   Any person who shall knowingly possess, sell or in any way dispose of any
alcoholic liquor under any other than the proper name or brand blown to tie
trade as designating the kind and quality of the contents of the package or
other containers of the alcoholic liquor, or who shall cause any such act to be
done, shall forfeit the alcoholic liquor and the packages and containers to the
state and shall be subject to the punishment and penalties provided for
violation of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-5) Penalty, see §
112.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-6
§ 112.080 ABATEMENT OF PLACE USED IN VIOLATION.
   Every lot, parcel or tract of land, and every building, structure, tent,
railroad car, boat, wagon, vehicle, establishment or place whatsoever, together
with all furniture, fixtures, ornaments and machinery located thereon, wherein
there shall be conducted any unlawful sale of any alcoholic liquor, or whereon
or wherein there shall be kept, stored, concealed or allowed any alcoholic
liquor intended for illegal sale or to be sold, disposed of or in any other
manner used in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided by the laws of
the state for the abatement of public nuisances.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/10-7
§ 112.081 USE OF PREMISES FOR ONE YEAR AFTER REVOCATION.
   When any license has been revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted
for the same premises for a period of one year thereafter.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-13
§ 112.082 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions and duties with respect to licenses granted under this chapter:
   (A)   In addition to and not limited by the specific penalties set out for
violations of specific articles of this chapter, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may suspend for 30 days or revoke any liquor license issued under
this chapter for violation of any state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic
liquors by any licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee;
   (B)   To suspend or revoke any liquor license if the licensee makes any
false statement or misrepresentation in the application for a license;
   (C)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by him or her or
by the state’s Commission have been or are being violated, and at such time to
examine said premises of said licensee in connection therewith;
   (D)   To notify the Secretary of State where a club incorporated under the
General Not for Profit Corporation Act or a foreign corporation functioning as
a club in the state under a certificate of authority issued under that Act has
violated this chapter by selling or offering for sale at retail alcoholic
liquors without a retailer’s license;
   (E)   To receive complaint from any citizen within his or her jurisdiction
that any of the provisions of this Act, or any rules or regulations adopted
pursuant hereto, have been or are being violated and to act upon such
complaints in the manner hereinafter provided; and
   (F)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall also have the power to
levy fines in accordance with §
112.084 of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-4
§ 112.083 COMPLAINT BY RESIDENTS.
   (A)   Any one resident of the municipality shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Liquor Commissioner, stating that a licensee under this
chapter has been or is violating the provisions of this chapter or any
amendments hereto, or of any of the statutes of the state, enacted with
reference to the control of liquor. Such complaint shall be made in writing and
shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining.
   (B)   (1)   The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
such belief is based.
      (2)   If the Liquor Commissioner is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation, and that from the facts alleged, there is
reasonable cause for such belief, he or she shall set the matter for hearing
and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing
and of the particular charges in the complaint.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-7
§ 112.084 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LOCAL LICENSE; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend any
license issued by him or her if he or she determines that the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of the Liquor Control Act or of any valid
ordinance or resolution enacted by the Board of Trustees or any applicable rule
or regulations established by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or the
State Commission which is not inconsistent with law. In addition to the
suspension, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may levy a fine on the
licensee for such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for a
first violation within a 12-month period, $1,500 for a second violation within
a 12-month period and $2,500 for a third or subsequent violation within a 12-
month period. Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation. Not more than $15,000 in fines may be imposed against any
licensee during the period of his or her license. Proceeds from such fines
shall be paid into the general corporate fund of the municipal treasury.
   (B)   No such license shall be so revoked or suspended and no licensee shall
be fined except after a public hearing by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
with a three-day written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an
opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings shall be open to the public
and the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall reduce all evidence to writing
and shall maintain an official record of the proceedings. If the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner has reason to believe that any continued operation of a
particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the
community, he or she may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the
reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing order the licensed
premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period, except that if such licensee shall
also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses on the
licensed premises such order shall not be applicable to such other business or
businesses.
   (C)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall within five days after
such hearing, if he or she determines after such hearing that the license
should be revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the
reason or reasons for such determination in a written order, and either the
amount of the fine, the period of suspension, or that the license has been
revoked, and shall serve a copy of such order within the five days upon the
licensee.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-5
§ 112.085 APPEALS FROM ORDER OF LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, any order or action of a Local
Liquor Control Commissioner levying a fine or refusing to levy a fine on a
licensee, granting or refusing to grant a license, revoking or suspending or
refusing to revoke or suspend a license or refusing for more than 30 days to
grant a hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license may within 20
days after notice of such order or action by appealed by any resident of the
municipality under the jurisdiction of the Liquor Commissioner, or any person
interested, to the state’s Commission.
   (B)   In any case where a licensee appeals to the state’s Commission from an
order or action of the Liquor Commissioner having the effect of suspending or
revoking a license, denying a renewal application, or refusing to grant a
license, the licensee shall resume the operation of the licensed business
pending the decision of the state’s Commission and the expiration of the time
allowed for an application for rehearing. If an application for rehearing is
filed, the licensee shall continue the operation of the licensed business until
the denial of the application or, if the rehearing is granted, until the
decision on rehearing.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-9
§ 112.086 SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS IN A YEAR.
   (A)   In any case in which a licensee appeals to the state’s Commission a
suspension or revocation by a Local Liquor Control Commissioner that is the
second or subsequent such suspension or revocation placed on that licensee
within the preceding 12-month period, the licensee shall consider the
suspension or revocation to be in effect until a reversal of the Liquor
Commissioner’s action has been issued by the state’s Commission and shall cease
all activity otherwise authorized by the license.
   (B)   The state’s Commission shall expedite, to the greatest extent
possible, its consideration of any appeal that is an appeal of a second or
subsequent suspension or revocation within the past 12-month period.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-9
§ 112.087 APPEAL LIMITATIONS FOR SUBSEQUENT VIOLATION.
   Any appeal of the decision and findings of the Liquor Commissioner in §
112.086 of this chapter shall be limited to a review of the official record of
the proceedings of said Liquor Commissioner. The official record shall be a
“certified official record” of the proceedings taken and prepared by a
certified court reporter or certified shorthand reporter. A copy of this record
shall be filed by the Liquor Commissioner within five days after notice of the
filing of such appeal is received by the municipality from the state’s
Commission.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-9
§ 112.999 PENALTY.
   In addition to suspension and/or revocation, as set out in §
112.084 of this chapter, the Liquor Commissioner may levy a fine on the
licensee for such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for each
violation; each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation. No more than $10,000 in fines under this section may be imposed
against any licensee during the period of his or her license. Proceeds from
such fines shall be paid into the general corporate fund of the municipal
treasury, as the case may be.
(2007 Code, § 21-4-10)
CHAPTER 113: SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
Section
Solicitors
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Certificate of registration
   
113.03   Application of certificate of registration
   
113.04   Issuance and revocation of certificate
   
113.05   Policy on soliciting and hours
   
113.06   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.07   Compliance by solicitors
   
113.08   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
113.09   Solicitations on public highways
   
113.10   Fees
Peddlers
   
113.25   License required
   
113.26   Definition
   
113.27   Applications
   
113.28   Investigation of applicants
   
113.29   Hours
   
113.30   Photographs
   
113.31   Unwanted peddling
   
113.32   Peddlers as nuisance
   
113.33   Duty of police to abate
   
113.34   Exclusionary provision
   
113.35   Fees
SOLICITORS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING. Any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatsoever, for any kind of consideration whatsoever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or non-profit
association, organization, corporation or project.
(2007 Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 113.02 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Every person desiring to engage in soliciting, as herein defined, from
persons within the municipality is hereby required to make written application
for a certificate of registration as hereinafter provided. Persons soliciting
without a certificate of registration will be required to wait 30 days prior to
applying for a certificate of registration. All resident charitable, non-profit
organizations in the municipality which have been in existence for six months
or longer shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
(2007 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 2025/06-17-02, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 113.03 APPLICATION OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Applications for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a
form provided by the village and filed with the Village Clerk. The applicant
shall truthfully state in full the information requested on the application,
to-wit:
      (1)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; also, business address if other than residence
address; also, Social Security number;
      (2)   Address of place of residence during the past three years if other
than present address;
      (3)   Age of applicant and marital status; and, if married, the name of
spouse;
      (4)   Physical description of the applicant;
      (5)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
with whom the applicant is employed or represents; and the length of time of
such employment or representation;
      (6)   Name and address of employer during the past three years if other
than the present employer;
      (7)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting in which the applicant will engage;
      (8)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
      (9)   The date or approximate date of the latest previous application for
a certificate under this subchapter, if any;
      (10)   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this subchapter ever been revoked;
      (11)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter or the regulations of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting;
      (12)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the
United States;
      (13)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on
business immediately preceding the date of application in the municipality and
the address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities; and
      (14)   Also, such additional information as the village may deem
necessary to process the application.
   (B)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
   (C)   The Board shall cause to be kept in his or her office an accurate
record of every application received and acted upon, together with all other
information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of registration
issued under the provisions of this subchapter and of the denial of
applications.
   (D)   Applications for certificates issued shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued and any renewal thereof shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
   (E)   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has
been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any
other state or federal law of the United States within five years of the date
of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this subchapter, nor to any person whose certificate
of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as herein
provided.
(2007 Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 113.04 ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, after consideration of the application and all
information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein
required, and that the issuance of a certificate of registration to the
applicant would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this
subchapter. Endorsement shall be made by the Board upon the application of the
denial of the application.
      (2)   When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the certificate
of registration shall be issued forthwith.
   (B)   (1)   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be
revoked by the Board if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a
violation of any provision of this subchapter, or has made a false material
statement in the application or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance
of a certificate of registration under the terms of this subchapter.
      (2)   Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be
given by the Board to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified,
return receipt requested, U.S. mail, addressed to his or her residence address
set forth in the application.
      (3)   Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of
registration shall become null and void.
   (C)   The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date
thereof.
(2007 Code, § 7-2-4) (Ord. 2025/06-17-02, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 113.05 POLICY ON SOLICITING AND HOURS.
   (A)   It is declared to be the policy of the village that the occupant or
occupants of the residences in the municipality shall make the determination of
whether solicitors shall be or shall not be invited to their respective
residences.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance
for any person to engage in soliciting, as herein defined, prior to 10:00 a.m.
or after 5:00 p.m. on any day of the week including Saturday or at anytime on a
Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(2007 Code, § 7-2-5) (Ord. 2025/06-17-02, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 113.06 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by
the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this subchapter, shall
comply with the following direction, to-wit: notice of the determination by the
occupant of giving invitation to solicitors, or the refusal of invitation to
solicitors, to any residence shall be given in the manner following:
   (A)   A weather-proof card shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance
door to the residence, indicating the determination by the occupant, containing
the applicable words, as follows: “NO SOLICITORS INVITED” or “NO TRESPASSING”;
and
   (B)   The letters shall be at least three inches in height. Such signs shall
constitute notice to any solicitor that to enter any premises so marked is a
violation of this subchapter.
(2007 Code, § 7-2-6)
§ 113.07 COMPLIANCE BY SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It is the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in the
municipality upon which a residence, as herein defined, is located to first
examine the notice provided for in §
113.06 of this chapter, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(2007 Code, § 7-2-7) (Ord. 2025/06-17-02, passed 6-17-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person
to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or create
any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting, as herein defined, in defiance of
the notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.06 of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 7-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 SOLICITATIONS ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   Charitable organizations shall be allowed to solicit upon public highways
under the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   The charitable organization must be one that is registered with the
Attorney General for the state as a charitable organization as provided by the
Solicitations for Charity Act, 225 ILCS 460/0.01 et seq., as amended;
   (B)   Solicit only at intersections where all traffic from all directions is
required to come to a full stop;
   (C)   Be engaged in a state-wide fund-raising activity;
   (D)   Be liable for any injury to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent;
   (E)   Any person so engaged in such solicitation shall be at least 16 years
of age and shall wear a high visibility vest;
   (F)   Solicit only during daylight hours; and
   (G)   Any one charitable organization shall be limited to conducting no more
than two solicitations per calendar year.
(2007 Code, § 7-2-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1006
§ 113.10 FEES.
   Upon making an application for a certificate, the applicant shall pay a
license fee, which shall be as follows:
   (A)   Daily license: $100 per person for a period of seven days.
(2007 Code, § 7-2-11) (Ord. 2025/06-17-02, passed 6-17-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
PEDDLERS
§ 113.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker or peddler of any merchandise, article or thing without
having first secured a license therefor.
(2007 Code, § 7-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.26 DEFINITION.
   PEDDLE shall mean the selling, bartering or exchanging or the offering for
sale, barter or exchange of any tangible personal property upon or along the
streets, highways or public places of the municipality or from house-to-house,
whether at one place thereon or from place-to-place, from any wagon, truck,
pushcart or other vehicle or from movable receptacles of any kind, but shall
not include the delivery of any item previously ordered or the sale of items
along delivery routes where the purchaser has previously requested the seller
to stop and exhibit his or her items; nor shall PEDDLE be taken to include the
solicitation of orders by sample where the goods are not delivered at the time
the order is taken.
(2007 Code, § 7-3-2)
§ 113.27 APPLICATIONS.
   A person desiring a license may obtain the same by making application with
the Clerk and providing the following information:
   (A)   Name and physical description of applicant;
   (B)   Permanent home and address and local address if operating from such an
address;
   (C)   A brief description of the business and of the goods to be sold;
   (D)   Name and address of the employer, if any;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   Evidence that the agent is acting on behalf of the corporation he or
she represents;
   (G)   Statement of the applicant’s criminal record other than a traffic
record; and
   (H)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on business
immediately preceding the date of application to the municipality and the
address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities.
(2007 Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 113.28 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS.
   Upon receipt of each application, it shall be referred to the Chief of
Police, who shall investigate the business and moral character of the
applicant. If the facts show the applicant unfit to receive the license, then
it shall be denied.
(2007 Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 113.29 HOURS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this subchapter or not, to engage in peddling,
as herein defined, prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. on any day of the
week including Saturday or at anytime on a Sunday or on a state or national
holiday.
(2007 Code, § 7-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.30 PHOTOGRAPHS.
   Two photographs of the applicant and such of its employees, as will be used
in the peddling or merchandising, taken within 60 days immediately prior to the
filing of the application, which pictures shall be two inches by two inches,
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant or its agent(s) and/or employee
(s) in a clear and distinguishing manner.
(2007 Code, § 7-3-6)
§ 113.31 UNWANTED PEDDLING.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter, nor the issuance of any license
hereunder, shall entitle the licensee to go in or upon any private residence
for the purpose of peddling if such licensee, his or her agents or employees
are directed to depart from said private residence by the owner or person in
charge thereof.
(2007 Code, § 7-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.32 PEDDLERS AS NUISANCE.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences, business
establishments or offices in the municipality by peddlers, hawkers, itinerant
merchants and transient vendors of merchandise without having been requested or
invited to do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of said private
residences and business establishments or offices for the purpose of disposing
of and/or peddling or hawking of merchandise is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and is punishable as a violation of this subchapter. No person shall
peddle in a public square.
(2007 Code, § 7-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.33 DUTY OF POLICE TO ABATE.
   The Police Department of the municipality is hereby required and directed to
suppress the same and to abate any such nuisance, as described in §
113.32 of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 7-3-9)
§ 113.34 EXCLUSIONARY PROVISION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to persons employed or
representing an established merchant, business, firm or corporation located and
regularly doing business in the municipality or to farmers selling any food
items raised or produced by themselves and/or to permanently established
residents who are voters in the municipality or anyone duly licensed.
(2007 Code, § 7-3-10)
§ 113.35 FEES.
   The license fees per person to be charged for licenses to peddle in the
municipality, each payable in advance, are hereby fixed and established as
follows: annual license: $50 per person per year.
(2007 Code, § 7-3-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
CHAPTER 114: VIDEO GAMING
Section
   
114.01   License required
   
114.02   Application
   
114.03   Fee
   
114.04   Expiration of license
   
114.05   Display of license
   
114.06   Revocation of license
§ 114.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of the video gaming terminal shall obtain a license, issued
by the village, for every such device.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, keep, maintain or use
or permit the installation, keeping, maintenance or use upon his or her
premises of any video gamily terminal unless a valid license issued under this
chapter is in effect for the video gaming terminal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver video gaming terminals
within the village for use by any other person for gain or profit from the
operation thereof unless a license therefor has been issued by the village and
the license fee has been paid for the current year.
(Ord. 2015-05-19-2, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.02 APPLICATION.
   Applications for the license required by this chapter shall be filed with
the Village Clerk and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name, address, age and date of birth of the owner of the video
gaming terminal and of the owner of the establishment where the video gaming
terminal shall be located;
   (B)   Prior criminal convictions of the owner of the video gaming terminal
and the owner of the establishment if any;
   (C)   The place where the video gaming terminal is to be displayed or
operated and the business conducted at that place;
   (D)   Description of the video gaming terminal to be covered by the license;
and
   (E)   Evidence that licenses have been issued by the state’s Gaming Board to
the owner of the video gaming terminal and the owner of the establishment.
(Ord. 2015-05-19-2, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 114.03 FEE.
   The annual fee for the license required by this chapter shall be $25/
machine. The fee shall be non- refundable.
(Ord. 2015-05-19-2, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 114.04 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall terminate on the fourth
Tuesday of May the next year following issuance. The fees for license issued on
a date other than the fourth Tuesday of May shall be pro rata.
(Ord. 2015-05-19-2, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 114.05 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   The license required by this chapter shall be prominently displayed next to
or on the video gaming terminal.
(Ord. 2015-05-19-2, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 114.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The President, at any time, may notify any licensee under this chapter of
any charge of violation of any of the provisions of this chapter in connection
with the operation of any video gaming terminal. After a hearing presided over
by the President, the President, upon a finding that the violation has
occurred, may order that a fine be paid or may order the revocation of the
license and the license shall thereupon be terminated. The licensee may appeal
the revocation in writing within ten days of the issuance of the order. The
appeal shall state the reasons the licensee feels the fine or termination order
was issued in error.
(Ord. 2015-05-19-2, passed 5-19-2015)
CHAPTER 115: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Cannabis business establishments prohibited
   
115.03   Public nuisance declared
   
115.04   Violations
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure, and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A.
101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax  Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
(Ord. 2019-12-17-2, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 115.02 CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT PROHIBITED.
   The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in
the Village of Oreana, Illinois. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer,
allow to be operated or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the
Village of Oreana any of the following:
   (A)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center;
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor; or
   (F)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter.
(Ord. 2019-12-17-2, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 115.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the
Village of Oreana, Illinois in violation of the provisions of this chapter is
hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available
remedies.
(Ord. 2019-12-17-2, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 115.04 VIOLATIONS.
   Violations of this chapter may be enforced in accordance with the provisions
of Title I, Chapter 10, Rules of Construction General Penalty, § 10.99 of this
code.
(Ord. 2019-12-17-2, passed 12-17-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Meanings of words and phrases
   
130.02   Criminal Code adopted
Offenses Against Public Peace, Safety and Property
   
130.15   Disturbing police officer
   
130.16   Disturbing lawful assemblies
   
130.17   Disturbing the peace
   
130.18   Barbed wire and electric fences
   
130.19   Tobacco, smokeless tobacco sales
   
130.20   Unlawful conduct on a public way
   
130.21   Renting premises for unlawful purposes
   
130.22   Posting bills
   
130.23   Intoxication in public
   
130.24   Firearms and bows and arrows
   
130.25   Games in streets
   
130.26   Explosives; storage
   
130.27   Public property destruction
   
130.28   Utility wires and poles; injury
   
130.29   Street signs; molesting prohibited
   
130.30   Tampering with public notice
   
130.31   Trespassing
Littering
   
130.45   Definitions
   
130.46   Littering prohibited
   
130.47   Scattering; prevention
   
130.48   Receptacles; upsetting or tampering
   
130.49   Sidewalks and alleys to be free from litter
   
130.50   Owner to maintain private premises
   
130.51   Littering from vehicles, aircrafts
   
130.52   Litter in parks
   
130.53   Hand bills and notices
   
130.54   Construction sites
   
130.55   Loading and unloading docks
   
130.56   Parking lots
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 MEANINGS OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the words and phrases of 720 ILCS 5/2-
1 through 5/2-11, 5/2-13 through 5/2-16, 5/2-19 and 5/2-20, as approved,
adopted and amended are hereby adopted by the village, as fully as if set out
herein.
(2007 Code, § 27-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The Illinois Criminal Code, 720 ILCS, as passed, approved and amended by the
state’s General Assembly is hereby adopted by the village; the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the village;
provided, however, the penalties as provided by this code shall apply.
(2007 Code, § 27-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2 and 5/11-1-1
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, SAFETY AND PROPERTY
§ 130.15 DISTURBING POLICE OFFICER.
   No person shall, by violent conduct, disturb any police officer in the
discharge of his or her duties; nor shall any person assault, strike or fight
with any police officers in the discharge of his or her duties or permit such
conduct in or upon any house or premises in the village owned or possessed by
him or her or under his or her management and control. Abusive or vulgar
language in the presence of an officer does not constitute a crime unless the
language is directed at the officer and provokes a breach of the peace.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1
§ 130.16 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly met for the worship
of God or any other assembly met for a lawful purpose by any offensive
behavior, or by any disorderly conduct.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 130.17 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall disturb the peace of any individual or private family, or of
any lawful congregation within the village by any noise or amusement, or by
vulgar or profane language, or by any disorderly or unreasonable conduct.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 130.18 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electrically-
charged fence or barbed wire or other such sharp, pointed fence below eight
feet in height, except in an agricultural or conservation zone district.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.19 TOBACCO, SMOKELESS TOBACCO SALES.
   (A)   Tobacco sales to minors.
      (1)   No minor under 18 years of age shall buy any cigar, cigarette,
smokeless tobacco or tobacco in any of its forms. No person shall sell, buy
for, distribute samples of or furnish any cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco
or tobacco in any of its forms, to any minor under 18 years of age.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (A), SMOKELESS TOBACCO means any
tobacco products that are suitable for dipping or chewing.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-6)
   (B)   Smokeless tobacco.
      (1)   Definition. For the purposes of this division (B), the term
SMOKELESS TOBACCO means any finely cut, ground, powdered or leaf tobacco that
is intended to be placed in the oral cavity.
      (2)   Sales of smokeless tobacco products to persons under 18. No person
shall sell any smokeless tobacco product to any person under the age of 18.
      (3)   Distribution. No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed
to any person under the age of 18, without charge or at a nominal cost, any
smokeless tobacco product.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-7)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 675/1
§ 130.20 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT ON A PUBLIC WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk or
public way, except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb
line if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other
pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to impede or interfere with another person’s use
of a public way.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.21 RENTING PREMISES FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSES.
   It shall be for any person to rent, use or allow to be used any unlawful
building or property owned by him or her for any unlawful purpose.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.22 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print or nail any
hand bill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant or upon any private wall, door or gate without
the consent, in writing, of the owner of the wall, door or gate; provided,
however, that, this section shall not prevent posting by proper village and
county officials of election signs, polling place signs and other signs or
placards necessary under the law to the conduct of elections, except they may
not be attached to a tree.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.23 INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall, in the village, be found in a state of intoxication or
drunk in any street or other public place, or shall be found drunk lying or
roving about the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the village or the private
grounds of any of the inhabitants thereof, or being drunk as aforesaid, shall
disturb the peace, order and quiet of the village, or the peace and quiet of
the citizens thereof by loud and unusual noises, disorderly conduct, indecent
language or behavior or in any other manner.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-3
§ 130.24 FIREARMS AND BOWS AND ARROWS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, bow and arrow or air gun in
the village or so that the bullet, arrow, missile or projectile therefrom
enters the village without written permission from the village’s Board of
Trustees; provided that, this section shall not be construed to prohibit any
officer of the law to discharge a firearm in the performance of his or her
duty; nor to prevent any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully
defending his or her person or property, nor to prevent the discharge of bow
and arrow by students upon school grounds while under the direct and immediate
supervision of teachers or other school supervisory personnel.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.25 GAMES IN STREETS.
   No person shall, upon any village street, fly any kite or play any game of
ball or engage in any amusement or practice having a tendency to injure or
annoy any person passing in the streets or on the sidewalks.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.26 EXPLOSIVES; STORAGE.
   (A)   Nitroglycerine, dynamite and the like. No person shall have, keep,
possess or store at or in any place within the village, any nitroglycerine,
dynamite or giant powder, or any form or combination of any of them.
   (B)   Blasting powder and the like. No person shall keep, possess or store
any gun or blasting powder or any gun or explosive cotton at or in any one
place in the village in any quantity exceeding five pounds.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-8-4
§ 130.27 PUBLIC PROPERTY DESTRUCTION.
   No person in the village shall deface, destroy or in anyway injure any
public property or any other apparatus of the village.
(2007 Code, § 27-2-16) (Ord. 06/19/0-7-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.28 UTILITY WIRES AND POLES; INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully, maliciously or negligently break, deface,
injure or destroy any telegraph or telephone pole, cable television equipment,
post or wire, or any electric lightpost, pole or electric conductor, wire or
lamp or any other thing connected with the same or belonging thereto, or any
water main, gas main, pipe or hydrant or lamp or lamppost, or anything
belonging to or connected therewith or with any of them.
(2007 Code, § 27-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.29 STREET SIGNS; MOLESTING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, in any manner or form, to
deface, disfigure, damage or molest any of the street signs or parts thereof
located in the village.
(2007 Code, § 27-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.30 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly and without lawful authority
alter, destroy, deface, remove or conceal any public notice, posted according
to law, during the time for which the notice was to remain posted.
(2007 Code, § 27-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/32-9
§ 130.31 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Trespasses prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to commit a trespass within the municipality upon either public or
private property.
(2007 Code, § 27-5-1)
   (B)   Specifically enumerated trespasses; suppression. Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of division (A) above, any of the following
acts by any person, firm or corporation shall be deemed included among those
that constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of division (A)
above, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time
to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this section;
the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows, to-wit:
      (1)   An entry upon the premises of another, or any part thereof,
including any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to the premises, or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any
owner or occupant thereof;
      (2)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
      (3)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      (4)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to consent or the failure to
leave any such vehicle, aircraft or watercraft after being requested to leave
by the person having such right.
(2007 Code, § 27-5-2)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
LITTERING
§ 130.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE.
      (1)   A container of water-tight construction with a tight-fitting lid or
cover capable of preventing the escape of contents within.
      (2)   Such RECEPTACLES shall have handles or other means for safe and
convenient handling and be of such size or sufficient capacity to hold all
litter generated between collection periods and shall be in compliance with the
regulations promulgated.
   CONSTRUCTION SITES. Any private or public property upon which repairs to
existing buildings, construction of new buildings or demolition of existing
structures is taking place.
   HAND BILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed matter of
literature which is not delivered by the United States mail service, including,
but not limited to, those which:
      (1)   Advertise for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
      (2)   Direct attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Direct attention to or advertise any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCK. Any dock space or area used by any moving
vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares,
commodities and persons located on or adjacent to any stream, river or land.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property including, but not limited to, vacant land or
any land, building or other structure designed or used for residential,
commercial, business, industrial, institutional or religious purposes, together
with any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox
and other structure(s) appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses or fountains and any and all public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
   PUBLIC RECEPTACLES. Any receptacles provided by or authorized by the
village.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-1)
§ 130.46 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit any litter within the village, except in public
receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection or in any duly
licensed disposal facility.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.47 SCATTERING; PREVENTION.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent litter from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.48 RECEPTACLES; UPSETTING OR TAMPERING.
   No person shall upset or tamper with a public or private receptacle designed
or used for the deposit of litter or cause or permit its contents to be
deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or private premises.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.49 SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS TO BE FREE FROM LITTER.
   Persons owning, occupying or in control of any public place or private
premises shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.50 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall, at all
times, maintain the premises free of litter.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of private premises shall, if public
receptacles are unavailable, maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.51 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES, AIRCRAFTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle,
shall deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
      (2)   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partly loaded truck or
other vehicle within the village unless such vehicle is so constructed or so
loaded as to prevent any part of its load, contents or litter from being blown
or deposited upon any public place or private premises; nor shall any person
drive or move any vehicle or truck within the village, the wheels or tires of
which carry onto or deposit in any public place or private premises, mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-7)
   (B)   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit any litter
within the village.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-8)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.52 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall deposit litter in any park within the village, except in
receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any
other public place or private premises. Where receptacles are not provided, all
such litter shall be removed from the park by the person responsible for its
presence and properly disposed of elsewhere in a lawful manner.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.53 HAND BILLS AND NOTICES.
   (A)   (1)   Public places. No person shall deposit or sell any hand bill in
or upon any public place; provided, however, that, it shall not be unlawful on
any public place for any person to hand out or distribute without charge to the
receiver, any hand bill to any person willing to accept it.
      (2)   Private premises. No person shall deposit or unlawfully distribute
any hand bill in or upon private premises, except by handing or transmitting
any such hand bill directly to the occupant of such private premises.
      (3)   Exemptions for newspapers and political literature. The provisions
of this section shall not apply to the distribution upon private premises only
of newspapers or political literature; except that, newspapers and political
literature shall be placed in such a manner as to prevent their being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any public place or other private premises.
      (4)   Cleanup. It shall be the responsibility of any person distributing
hand bills to maintain the area which they are utilizing free of any litter
caused by or related to said hand bill distribution.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-10)
   (B)   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or
device, calculated to attract the attention of the public upon any public
place, except as may be authorized or required by law. No person, except the
owner or tenant, shall post any such notice on private property without the
permission of the owner or tenant.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-11)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.54 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site so that litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
public place or other private premises.
   (B)   Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the
result of normal construction process upon any public place or private
premises, shall be removed by the contractor.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.55 LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCKS.
   The person owning, operating or in control of a loading or unloading dock
shall maintain private receptacles for collection of litter and shall, at all
times, maintain the dock area free of litter in such a manner that litter will
be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public
place or other private premises.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.56 PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Litter receptacles required. Any public place or private premises
containing any provision for parking vehicles shall be equipped with litter
receptacles in compliance with this section. Such premises shall include, but
not be limited to, such places as shopping centers, outdoor theaters, drive-in
restaurants, gasoline service stations, apartment developments, parking lots
and any other place where provision is made for vehicles to stop or park in a
designated area for any purpose.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Premises used for the purpose designated herein shall be
kept in a litter-free condition and all litter shall be removed periodically
from the receptacles.
   (C)   Obligation to use receptacles. It shall be the duty and obligation of
all persons using parking areas to use such litter receptacles as hereinabove
provided for the purposes intended and it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to deposit any litter upon any such parking lot.
(2007 Code, § 27-4-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-1 et seq.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   MOBILE HOUSING
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
      
156.   SWIMMING POOL SAFETY DEVICES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Permit required
   
150.02   Fees
   
150.03   Application
   
150.04   Approval of plans
   
150.05   Variations
   
150.06   Enforcement
   
150.07   Permit expiration
   
150.08   Completion of construction
§ 150.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or alter any building or structure in the
village, excepting fences, when the cost of construction exceeds $50 or where
the effect of such construction or alteration is to enlarge the capacity or
affect the bearing walls of any building or the roof thereof, without having
secured a permit therefor.
(2007 Code, § 6-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 FEES.
   (A)   The following fees are established for the issuance of a permit to
construct any building, shed, garage, single-family dwelling unit, duplex,
multi-family dwelling unit, commercial building, swimming pool, whether raised
or recessed, or an addition to any present structure or any other case in which
a structure shall be or reconstructed and said permit shall be based on the
work value thereof.
Construction Permit Fee Schedule
Work Value Fee
Construction Permit Fee Schedule
Work Value          Fee
$400 or less        $10
$401 - $700         $12
$701 - $1,000       $14
$1,001 - $1,500     $15
$1,501 - $2,000     $20
$2,001 - $1,000,000 $20, plus $3 for each $1,000 or fraction thereof over
                    $2,000
Over $1,000,000     $3,014, plus $1 for each $10,000 or fraction thereof over
                    $1,000,000
 
   (B)   Further, for the demolition of any structure, the following fees are
established:
 
Demolition Permit Fee Schedule
Stories Fee
1       $10
2       $20
Over 2  $20, plus $5 for each story over 2
 
(2007 Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 89-01, passed 1-17-1989; Ord. 06/19/07-1, passed - -
)
§ 150.03 APPLICATION.
   Application for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and shall be
accompanied by plans and specifications in duplicate showing the work to be
done; such plans should be verified by the signature of either the owner of the
premises or by the architect or contractor in charge of the operations.
(2007 Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 150.04 APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   (A)   Such applications, with plans, shall be referred to the Building
Inspector, who shall examine the same to determine whether the proposed
alterations or construction will comply with the code provisions relative
thereto.
   (B)   Upon approval, one set of plans shall be returned to the applicant
with a permit and the other set shall be retained by the Building Inspector.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued, except after approval of the plans.
(2007 Code, § 6-1-4)
§ 150.05 VARIATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to vary materially from the submitted plans and
specifications unless such variations are submitted in an amended plan to the
Building Inspector and approved by him or her.
(2007 Code, § 6-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Inspector shall make or cause to be made such inspections as
are necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, and
to make any tests or examinations of materials or methods to be used for the
purpose of seeing that the provisions of this chapter are complied with.
(2007 Code, § 6-1-6)
§ 150.07 PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   Any initial building permit issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall expire within 18 months of the date of its issuance. After the expiration
of the initial building permit, the permit holder may make application in
person to the village’s Board of Trustees for one 18-month renewal permit if
said application is accompanied by an additional permit fee equal to the
initial permit fee. Nothing herein shall require the Village Clerk, Mayor,
Village Board of Trustees or any officer or employee of the village to issue a
building permit or renew the same and no more than one renewal permit shall be
issued to any permit holder.
(2007 Code, § 6-1-7) (Ord. 06/19/07-1, passed - -)
§ 150.08 COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   All construction for which a building permit was issued shall be completed
on or before the date of the expiration of the initial permit or the renewal
permit, if the same was granted. In the event that said construction is not
completed, the permit holder shall be subject to a fine of $75 per day for each
day said construction remains incomplete or until the site is cleaned of all
building materials, all footings are removed or covered and any excavation is
returned to original grade.
(2007 Code, § 6-1-8) (Ord. 06/19/07-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   State requirements adopted by reference
   
151.03   Manufactured Housing Act adopted
   
151.04   State Department of Public Health regulations adopted by reference
   
151.05   National safety standards
   
151.06   Skirting
   
151.07   Fire extinguishers
   
151.08   Inspection
   
151.09   Off-street parking
   
151.10   Manufactured and mobile homes prohibited
   
151.11   Mobile home occupancy permit
Mobile Home Parks
   
151.25   Compliance with statutes; applicability
   
151.26   Planning
   
151.27   Local government requirements
   
151.28   Permits
   
151.29   Inspections
   
151.30   Violation proceedings
   
151.31   Plan documents
   
151.32   Application
   
151.33   Location
   
151.34   Roadways and parking
   
151.35   Lot size
   
151.36   Restrictions
   
151.37   Fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIDAVIT. An oath in writing, sworn before and attested by an individual
who has authority to administer an oath.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for a license or permit.
   IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME. A mobile home served by individual utilities,
resting on a permanent perimeter foundation which extends below the established
frost depth with the wheels, tongue and hitch removed and the home secured in
compliance with the Mobile Home Tie Down Act, 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq. The
foundation shall extend into the ground below the frost line so as to attach
and become a part of the real estate. Materials such as concrete, mortared
concrete block or mortared brick extending into the ground below the frost line
shall satisfy the requirements for a permanent foundation.
   LICENSE. A license certificate issued by the village allowing a person to
operate and maintain a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter
and the rules and regulations issued hereunder.
   LICENSEE. Any person having a license or permit under this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location or
subsequent location at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. The term MOBILE HOME shall only include manufactured homes constructed
after 6-30-1976, in accordance with the Federal National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.;
provided that, any such structure resting on a permanent foundation with
wheels, tongue and hitch permanently removed shall not be construed as a MOBILE
HOME, but shall be an “immobilized mobile home”. A MOBILE HOME should not be
confused with a “camping trailer” or “recreational vehicle”.
   MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT. A mobile home which does not have a toilet and bath
or shower facilities.
   MOBILE HOME, DOUBLE-WIDE. Consists of two mobile units joined at the side
into a single home, but kept on their separate chassis for repeated
transportation to a site.
   MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT. A mobile home which has self-contained toilet and
bath or shower facilities.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a mobile home and the
exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME MODULE. A factory-fabricated building unit transported to a
building site, mounted on a permanent foundation supporting the outside
perimeter walls and is designed for residential use.
   MOBILE HOME PAD. The part of an individual mobile home space or lot beneath
the mobile home, including the concrete portion of the pad.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land
upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for two or more
independent mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such MOBILE
HOME PARK. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude
the tracts of land from common licensure as a MOBILE HOME PARK if they are
maintained and operated jointly. Neither an immobilized mobile home, nor a
motorized recreational vehicle, shall be construed as being a part of a MOBILE
HOME PARK.
   MOBILE HOME SALES AREA. A parcel of land used for the display, sale and
repair of new or used mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A portion of a mobile home park designed for the use or
occupancy of one mobile home.
   MOBILE HOUSING UNIT. Includes all forms of housing units listed in this
section and as regulated in this chapter.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. The licensee.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
   PERMIT. A certificate issued by the village, permitting the construction,
alteration or reduction in number of spaces of a mobile home park under the
provisions in this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, association, trust,
partnership, corporation, person doing business under an assumed name, county,
municipality, the state or any political subdivision or department thereof or
any other entity.
   REVOCATION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by this village for an indefinite period of time.
   SITE. The lot on which the mobile home is located for permanent habitation.
   SPACE. Synonymous with MOBILE HOME SPACE.
   SUSPENSION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by this village for a temporary period of time with an expectation
of resumption.
(2007 Code, § 23-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 210 ILCS 115/2.1, 115/2.2, 115/2.3, 115/2.4, 115/
2.5, 115/2.7 and 115/2.10
§ 151.02 STATE REQUIREMENTS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The state’s Mobile Home Park Act and the Mobile Home Tiedown Act (77 Ill.
Adm. Code 870) of 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq., as passed, approved and amended by
the state’s General Assembly are hereby adopted by the village. The applicable
provisions as they pertain to mobile homes and immobilized mobile homes shall
be controlling within the corporate limits of the village.
(2007 Code, § 23-1-2)
§ 151.03 MANUFACTURED HOUSING ACT ADOPTED.
   The state’s Manufactured Housing and Mobile Home Act, as passed and approved
by the state’s General Assembly are hereby adopted by the village, the
applicable provisions as they pertain to mobile homes and immobilized mobile
homes shall be controlling within the village.
(2007 Code, § 23-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 430 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
§ 151.04 STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Manufactured Home Community Code as approved by the state’s Department
of Public Health (1998) is hereby adopted by the village. The applicable
provisions as they pertain to manufactured home community shall be controlling
within the corporate limits.
(2007 Code, § 23-1-4)
§ 151.05 NATIONAL SAFETY STANDARDS.
   No mobile home, immobilized mobile home or manufactured home shall be
located in the village unless the unit has the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards metal seal affixed thereto.
(2007 Code, § 23-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.06 SKIRTING.
   (A)   Skirting shall be used to conceal all underpinning, plumbing and
support piers whether on a permanent foundation or otherwise.
   (B)   All skirting shall be installed on all mobile housing units within 60
days of the placement of the unit.
(2007 Code, § 23-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   (A)   All mobile housing units located in the village shall be equipped with
a fire extinguishing apparatus capable of extinguishing all types of fires.
   (B)   Such extinguishers shall be of sufficient size so that they will
reasonably protect the mobile housing units.
   (C)   All fire extinguishers shall be approved by the Fire Chief or his or
her designated representative prior to installation.
(2007 Code, § 23-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 425 ILCS 60/1 through 60/4
§ 151.08 INSPECTION.
   Each mobile housing unit located in the village shall be subject to
reasonable inspection by an official or officials designated by the Village
Board.
(2007 Code, § 23-1-8)
§ 151.09 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Every owner of a mobile housing unit shall provide for a dustless, off-
street parking area of 400 square feet.
(2007 Code, § 23-1-9)
§ 151.10 MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to locate a manufactured or mobile home outside a
mobile home park.
(2007 Code, § 23-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.11 MOBILE HOME OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1732.png]
 
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 151.25 COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTES; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Every mobile home park hereafter established in the village shall, at
a minimum, conform to the requirements of:
      (1)   An Act to Provide for, License and Regulate Mobile Homes and Mobile
Home Parks (see 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.);
      (2)   Rules and Regulations for Mobile Home Parks, State Department of
Public Health, Consumer Protection Division, as now or hereafter amended;
      (3)   This chapter; and
      (4)   Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In case of conflict between any provisions of the above, the more
stringent requirement shall prevail.
(2007 Code, § 23-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.26 PLANNING.
   (A)   Any person seeking to establish, operate, alter or expand a mobile
home park shall obtain a permit to construct or a license to operate a mobile
home park.
   (B)   CONSTRUCT OR OPERATE A MOBILE HOME PARK, as used in this chapter,
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, supplying or maintaining
common water, sewer or other utility supplies or services, or the collection of
rents directly or indirectly from two or more independent mobile homes. (All
plans shall be submitted to the Village Board or Plan Commission for approval
prior to the granting of a permit.)
(2007 Code, § 23-2-2)
§ 151.27 LOCAL GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   A permit does not relieve the applicant from complying with this chapter or
other ordinances applicable thereto.
(2007 Code, § 23-2-3)
§ 151.28 PERMITS.
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall review each application and plan documents
submitted. When the application and plan documents are found to be in
compliance with the Rules and Regulations for Mobile Home Parks, as promulgated
by the state’s Department of Public Health, the Village Board may issue the
proper permit to construct or alter a mobile home park to the applicant.
Permits shall be valid for one year from date of issue.
(2007 Code, § 23-2-4)
   (B)   Each mobile home that locates on a lot in a mobile home park shall
secure an initial building (zoning) permit from the village. All future
locations on the same lot shall be exempt from the fee.
(2007 Code, § 23-2-7)
§ 151.29 INSPECTIONS.
   Upon completion of the proposed construction of a mobile home park or the
proposed alteration of a mobile home park, the applicant shall notify the
Village Clerk in order that an inspection of the complete facilities can be
made.
(2007 Code, § 23-2-5)
§ 151.30 VIOLATION PROCEEDINGS.
   Any license granted hereunder shall be subject to revocation or suspension
by the Mayor. However, the Mayor or his or her representative shall first serve
or cause to be served upon the licensee a written notice, in which shall be
specified the way or ways in which such licensee has failed to comply with the
statutes, or any rules or regulations promulgated by the village pertaining
thereto. The notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate such
nuisance, unsanitary or objectionable condition, specified in such notice
within five days or within a longer period of time as may be allowed by the
Village Board. If the licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of
the notice within the time specified or such extended period of time, the Mayor
or his or her representative may revoke or suspend such license.
(2007 Code, § 23-2-6)
§ 151.31 PLAN DOCUMENTS.
   In order to obtain a permit to construct or an original license to operate a
mobile home park, the applicant shall file with the Village Clerk a written
application and plan documents and such plan documents shall be prepared by a
registered engineer or architect licensed to practice in the state, with
registration seal affixed. Two copies of the plan document shall accompany the
application filed with the Village Clerk to obtain a permit to construct or
alter a mobile home park or an original license to operate a mobile home park,
not previously licensed by the Department. These plans shall include, but not
be limited to, the design and construction criteria set forth herein.
(2007 Code, § 23-2-10)
§ 151.32 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every applicant shall file with the Village Clerk a written
application and plan documents for the proposed construction or alteration of a
mobile home park.
   (B)   The application shall be completed by the applicant and the engineer
or architect and shall include:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or names
and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the names
and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of
incorporation must be filed with the application;
      (2)   The proposed method of constructing the structures and land upon
which the mobile home park is to be located;
      (3)   The plot plans of the mobile home park, building plans and
specifications for existing buildings and facilities and the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in
existing facilities;
      (4)   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application shall be attached; and
      (5)   Each application shall be accompanied by an application fee of $100
for a permit to construct, or an application fee of $25 for a permit to alter
to increase the size of the park.
(2007 Code, § 23-2-11)
§ 151.33 LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   Sites selected for mobile home development shall be well-drained
and free from topographical or geological hindrances and from other conditions
unfavorable to a proper residential environment. The mobile home development
shall not be located near swamps, marshes or other breeding places of insects,
rats and mice.
      (2)   When a good, natural drainage is not available, storm drainage
shall be provided and such drainage shall not endanger any water supply or
surface watercourse.
   (B)   The Village Board may authorize a site survey to ascertain that the
proposed location complied with the above requirements.
(2007 Code, § 23-2-12)
§ 151.34 ROADWAYS AND PARKING.
   (A)   All streets and driveways in every park shall be constructed in
compliance with Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   All streets in parks constructed shall have a minimum right-of-
way of 50 feet and a minimum road width of 32 feet for the purpose of this
chapter and shall be considered private streets to be maintained by the park
owner or operator.
      (2)   If a mobile home park has more than 50 units, a wider street may be
required by the corporate authorities.
   (C)   (1)   Sidewalks and walkways shall be constructed abutting a street in
a mobile home park and shall be a minimum of four feet in width; provided,
however, there shall be no minimum width requirement for sidewalks for each
individual lot.
      (2)   No portion of a mobile home shall block, in anyway, the pedestrian
traffic on the walkways.
(2007 Code, § 23-2-13)
§ 151.35 LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size for a mobile home pad shall be 8,000 square feet, with
a minimum frontage of 50 feet.
(2007 Code, § 23-2-17)
§ 151.36 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No mobile home unit parked in a mobile home park shall be immobilized.
   (B)   Not more than one mobile home unit shall be parked in one space.
   (C)   No travel trailer shall be permitted in any mobile home park, unless a
special area has been approved for that purpose by the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 23-2-18)
§ 151.37 FEES.
   The annual license fee per mobile home park shall be $50 and shall be due
and payable on or before May 1 of each year. The Village Clerk shall notify the
owner or operator of the annual fee at least 30 days prior to May 1.
(2007 Code, § 23-2-21)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Department and Committee
   
152.002   Undermining prohibited
   
152.003   Open doors
   
152.004   Repairing sidewalks
   
152.005   Stairways; railings
   
152.006   Closing streets
   
152.007   Signs across streets
   
152.008   Vehicles and skateboards on sidewalks
   
152.009   Deposits on sidewalks and streets
   
152.010   Obstructing streets
   
152.011   Rain water drains
   
152.012   Building materials in street
   
152.013   Merchandise on public street
   
152.014   Encroachments
   
152.015   Posting bills
   
152.016   Signs on poles
   
152.017   Injury to new pavements
   
152.018   Barbed wire fences
   
152.019   Burning on public streets
Excavations
   
152.030   Permit required; applications
   
152.031   Fees
   
152.032   Bond; deposit
   
152.033   Manner of excavating
   
152.034   Sidewalks
   
152.035   Restoring surfaces
   
152.036   Supervision
   
152.037   Protective measures; routing of traffic
   
152.038   Clearance for vital structures
   
152.039   Protection of traffic
   
152.040   Relocation and protection of utilities
   
152.041   Abandonment of substructures
   
152.042   Protection of adjoining property
   
152.043   Placement of excavated material
   
152.044   Clean-up
   
152.045   Protection of watercourses
   
152.046   Breaking through pavement
   
152.047   Depth of structures
   
152.048   Backfilling
   
152.049   Trenches in pipe laying
   
152.050   Prompt completion of work
   
152.051   Urgent work; emergency action
   
152.052   Noise, dust and debris
   
152.053   Preservation of monuments
   
152.054   Inspections
   
152.055   Location records
   
152.056   Liability of persons to village for damage
   
152.057   Unlawful excavations
Street Improvements
   
152.070   Sidewalks
   
152.071   Curbs and gutters
   
152.072   Storm sewers
Culverts
   
152.085   Obstruction of drain or storm sewer
   
152.086   Permit; application
   
152.087   Permit termination
   
152.088   Types of culverts
   
152.089   Cost of installation
   
152.090   Backfill cost
   
152.091   Replacement cost
Driveways
   
152.105   Permit required; fee
   
152.106   Grade surface
   
152.107   Specifications
   
152.108   Breaking curb; bond required
   
152.109   Repair
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 DEPARTMENT AND COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Department. There is hereby established a Department of the municipal
government which shall be known as the “Street Department”.
(2007 Code, § 33-1-1)
   (B)   Committee.
      (1)   The Village Board Standing Committee on Streets shall exercise a
general supervision over the affairs of the Street Department.
      (2)   It shall ascertain the needs and conditions thereof and shall, from
time to time, report the same to the Mayor and Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 33-1-2)
§ 152.002 UNDERMINING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall undermine, in any manner, any street or any other ground or
real estate situated in the village or belonging to any private person without
the prior written consent of the owner thereof.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.003 OPEN DOORS.
   No person shall open or allow to remain open any door, any gate or the
grating of any vault belonging to the premises occupied by him or her on any
street, alley or sidewalk in the village for any purpose, except the taking in
and removing goods; and any person allowing such grating to remain open shall
warn passers-by of the danger.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.004 REPAIRING SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever any sidewalk, pavement or cellar door on the same becomes worn out
or out of repair, or is torn up or broken and uneven, it shall be the duty of
the Street Superintendent to immediately report such fact to the Mayor or
Street and Alley Committee and, upon verbal or written order from either of
them, to give notice to the party owning the adjoining property to repair such
sidewalk or cellar door without delay.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.005 STAIRWAYS; RAILINGS.
   Steps or stairways leading into any building shall not extend from the wall
of such building onto any pavement or sidewalk and, in such case, the person
making or causing to be made such passage shall erect a railing on the side of
the stairs toward the street to prevent persons from falling into the street.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.006 CLOSING STREETS.
   Whenever public safety or the improvement or repair of any street, alley or
public place requires it, the Mayor may order any street, alley or public place
temporarily closed to traffic and the placing of signs indicating that the
street, alley or public place is closed by order of the Mayor. Whenever such
signs are so placed, no person shall ride or drive upon or cross such street,
alley or public place or, in any manner, destroy, deface or remove any such
sign.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.007 SIGNS ACROSS STREETS.
   No person shall place any sign, advertisement or banner over any or across
any street, alley or sidewalk in the village, unless he or she has written
approval of the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-17
§ 152.008 VEHICLES AND SKATEBOARDS ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate any skateboard or motor vehicle on or over any
sidewalk, except in crossing the same to go into a yard or parking lot.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.009 DEPOSITS ON SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk, any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
   (B)   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided that, the usable width is not thereby reduced
to less than four feet; and, provided that, no such article shall remain on
such walk for more than 30 minutes.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.010 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any material on any street which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any grass
clippings, or to cause a lawn mower to blow grass clippings onto a street or
any other articles such as glass which may cause injury to any person, animal
or property.
   (B)   No person shall place or cause to be placed or erected on any public
ground, or in any public street, alley or sidewalk in the village, any debris,
materials or obstruction, except as may be permitted by this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3
§ 152.011 RAIN WATER DRAINS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of
any storm water drain or any drainage pipe in either a natural or human-made
ditch without having first obtained a permit therefor.
      (2)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk
and shall be accompanied by a statement as to the purpose of such drainage
pipe, the premises to be served and the specification of such pipe to be
installed.
      (3)   Such application shall be referred to the Street Superintendent and
no such permit shall be issued unless he or she shall have found that the
village code would be complied with by the installation of such storm water
drain or drainage pipe and that the installation of such storm water drain or
drainage pipe would not interfere with, overload, obstruct or otherwise
adversely affect the existing storm water drainage system within the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any
storm water drain which discharges water onto any sidewalk or street in the
village.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.012 BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET.
   (A)   The Street Superintendent may move any obstruction on any street or
sidewalk of the village, but, before doing so, he or she shall notify the
person responsible therefor to remove such obstruction within a reasonable time
after being notified.
   (B)   Any person engaged in erecting a building or fence or improving any
lot on such street may deposit materials thereon and contiguous to such length
of time as may be necessary for the work.
   (C)   The obstruction shall not extend to more than one-half of the width of
the sidewalk, street or alley adjacent to such improvement and the gutter shall
always be left free and unobstructed.
   (D)   At night, such person shall keep an illuminated warning light on such
material.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3
§ 152.013 MERCHANDISE ON PUBLIC STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise
for sale; or to write or make any signs or advertisements on any such
pavements, unless written permission is granted by the Mayor.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3
§ 152.014 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.015 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk or upon any tree,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant or upon any private wall, door or gate without
the consent, in writing, of the owner of such curbstone, flagstone, sidewalk,
tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, private wall, door or gate.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.016 SIGNS ON POLES.
   No person shall nail, tack, paste, paint or fasten, or cause to be nailed,
tacked, painted or fastened, any sign or any other foreign substance or
material onto any telephone, telegraph, electric light or any street or traffic
sign located on any sidewalk, street, alley or public grounds or injure or
deface any such pole or post.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.017 INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon or
destroy any newly-laid sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning
sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft, newly-laid pavement.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.018 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed, in whole
or in part, of barbed wire, with any similar material designed to cause injury
to persons or any wire charged with electrical current, anywhere within three
feet of any public street, sidewalk, alley, park or other public way or place
unless such barbs or charged wire are at least eight feet above the level of
such public place.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.019 BURNING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or
other substances upon any of the public streets, sidewalks or alleys in the
village.
(2007 Code, § 33-2-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 152.030 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tunnel
under or to make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place in
the village without having obtained a permit as is herein required or without
complying with the provisions of this subchapter or in violation of or variance
from the terms of any such permit.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-1)
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and shall
describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof,
the purpose therefor and the person, firm or corporation doing the actual
excavating work and the name of the person, firm or corporation for whom or for
which the work is being done and it shall also contain an agreement that the
applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be
done.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-2)
Penalty, see §
10.99
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1734.png]
 
§ 152.031 FEES.
   The fee for such permit(s) shall be as follows; however, the Village Board
may waive the fees in this section:
   (A)   Excavation in asphalt or portland cement concrete pavement or surface:
$0.25 per square foot;
   (B)   Excavation in brick pavement or surface: $0.25 per square foot;
   (C)   Excavation in oil treated street surface: $0.25 per square foot; and
   (D)   Excavation in untreated or unimproved street or surface: $0.25 per
square foot.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-3)
§ 152.032 BOND; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor
has filed with the Clerk a bond in the sum of $50,000, conditioned to indemnify
the village for any loss, liability or damage that may result or accrue from or
because of the making, existence or manner of guarding or constructing any such
tunnel or excavation. Such bond shall have as surety a corporation licensed to
do business in the state as a surety company. The Village Board may waive the
bond provided for herein.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-4)
   (B)   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor
has deposited with the Clerk a cash deposit in the sum of $250 if no pavement
is involved, and $1,000 if the excavation is a paved area, to ensure the proper
restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement, if any. From this deposit
shall be deducted the expense of the village of relaying the surface of the
ground or pavement and of making the refill if this is done by the village or
at its expense and the balance shall be returned to the applicant without
interest after the tunnel or excavation is completely refilled and the surface
or pavement is restored. The Village Board may waive the deposit in this
section.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-5)
§ 152.033 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground; and,
in excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any
portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making
of such excavations or tunnels; and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables or conduits or to the village department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables or conduits shall be disturbed. No unnecessary damage or injury shall be
done to any tree, shrub or the roots thereof.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.034 SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided, which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. The temporary sidewalk is subject to inspection by the Street
Superintendent and shall not be open for use until approved by him or her.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.035 RESTORING SURFACES.
   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or under
any public street, alley or other public place in the village shall restore the
surface to its original condition if there is no pavement there. Refills shall
be properly tamped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be
left in the ground. Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street
shall be repaired and the surface re-laid by the applicant in compliance with
the regulations of the village and under the supervision of the Street
Superintendent.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.036 SUPERVISION.
   The Street Superintendent shall, from time to time, inspect or cause to be
inspected all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street,
alley or other place in the village to see to the enforcement of the provisions
of this subchapter. Notice shall be given to him or her at least ten hours
before the work of refilling any such tunnel or excavation commences.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-9)
§ 152.037 PROTECTIVE MEASURES; ROUTING OF TRAFFIC.
   It shall be the duty of every person cutting or making an excavation in or
upon any public place to place and maintain barriers and warning devices
necessary for the safety of the general public.
   (A)   Barriers, warning signs and lights shall conform to the requirements
of all applicable provisions of this chapter. Warning lights shall be
electrical markers or flashers used to indicate a hazard to traffic from sunset
of each day to sunrise of the next day.
   (B)   Electrical markers or flashers shall emit light at sufficient
intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety.
Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not to replace
light sources.
   (C)   (1)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that
during the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions as nearly
normal as possible shall be maintained at all times so as to minimize
inconvenience to the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general
public. When traffic conditions permit, the Street Superintendent may, by
written approval, permit the closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a
period of time prescribed by him or her if, in his or her opinion, it is
necessary. Such written approval may require that the permittee give
notification to various public agencies and to the general public.
      (2)   In such cases, such written approval shall not be valid until such
notice is given.
   (D)   Warning signs shall be placed far enough in advance of the
construction operation to alert traffic within a public street and cones or
other approved devices shall be placed to channel traffic in accordance with
the instructions of the Street Superintendent.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-10)
§ 152.038 CLEARANCE FOR VITAL STRUCTURES.
   The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, water gates,
underground vaults, valve housing structures and all other vital equipment, as
designated by the Street Superintendent.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.039 PROTECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for two lanes of vehicle traffic
at all street intersections where possible and safe crossing for pedestrians at
intervals of not more than 300 feet. If any excavation is made across any
public street, alley or sidewalk, adequate crossing shall be maintained for
vehicles and for pedestrians. If the street is not wide enough to hold the
excavated material without using part of the adjacent sidewalk, a passageway at
least one-half of the sidewalk width shall be maintained along such sidewalk
line.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.040 RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility without
the written consent of the Street Superintendent and the owner of any facility.
If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing facility, this shall be done by
its owner. The facility owned by the village shall be moved to accommodate the
permittee unless the cost of such work is borne by the permittee. The cost of
moving privately-owned facilities shall be similarly borne by the permittee
unless other arrangements are made with the person owning the facility. The
permittee shall support and protect, by timbers or otherwise, all pipes,
conduits, poles, wires or other apparatus which may be in any way affected by
the excavation work, and do everything necessary to support, sustain and
protect them under, over, along or across said work. The permittee shall secure
approval of method of support and protection from the owner of the facility.
   (B)   In case of any said pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus should
be damaged (and, for this purpose, pipe coating or other encasement or devices
are to be considered as part of a substructure), the permittee shall promptly
notify the owner thereof. All damaged facilities shall be repaired by the
agency or person owning them and the expense of such repairs shall be charged
to the permittee. It is the intent of this section that the permittee shall
assume all liability for damage to facilities and any resulting damage or
injury to anyone because of such facility damage and such assumption of
liability is a contractual obligation of the permittee. The only exception will
be such instances where damage is exclusively due to the negligence of the
owning utility. The village shall not be made a party to any action because of
this section. The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and
location of all underground facilities and protect the same against damage.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-13)
§ 152.041 ABANDONMENT OF SUBSTRUCTURES.
   Whenever the use of a substructure is abandoned, except the abandonment of
service lines designed to serve single properties, the person owning, using,
controlling or having an interest therein shall, within 30 days after such
abandonment, file with the Street Superintendent a statement in writing giving
in detail the location of the substructure so abandoned. If such abandoned
substructure is in the way or subsequently becomes in the way of an
installation of the village or any other public body, which installation is
pursuant to a governmental function, the owner shall remove such abandoned
substructure or pay the cost of its removal during the course of excavation for
construction of the facility by the village or any other public body.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-14)
§ 152.042 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   (A)   The permittee shall, at all times, and at his, her or its own expense,
preserve and protect from injury, any adjoining property by providing proper
foundations and taking other measures suitable for the purpose. Where, in the
protection of such property, it is necessary to enter upon private property for
the purpose of taking appropriate protective measures, the permittee shall
obtain consent from the owner of such private property for such purpose and if
he or she cannot obtain such consent, the Street Superintendent may authorize
him or her to enter the private premises solely for the purpose of making the
property safe.
   (B)   At the permittee’s own expense, all buildings, walls, fences or other
property likely to be damaged during the progress of the excavation work shall
be shored up and protected, and the permittee shall be responsible for all
damage to public or private property or highways resulting from failure to
properly protect and carry out the work. Whenever it may be necessary for the
permittee to trench through any lawn area, said area shall be reseeded or the
sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after ditches have been
backfilled, as required in this subchapter. All construction and maintenance
work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area clean of earth
and debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that which existed
before such work began. The permittee shall not remove, even temporarily, any
trees or shrubs which exist is parking street areas without first obtaining the
consent of the appropriate village department or official having supervision of
such property.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.043 PLACEMENT OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   (A)   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench
or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such a manner as to eliminate
danger to those working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the streets, and
so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using streets
and adjoining property. Where the confines of the area being excavated are too
narrow to permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as
might be the case in a narrow alley, the Street Superintendent shall have the
authority to require that the permittee haul the excavated material to a
storage site and then rehaul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling.
It shall be the permittee’s responsibility to secure the necessary permission
and make all necessary arrangements for all required storage and disposal
sites.
   (B)   All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of the
trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as reasonably
possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the Street
Superintendent, whenever necessary, in order to expedite the flow of traffic or
to abate the dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards or bins may be required by the
Street Superintendent to prevent the spreading of dirt into traffic lanes.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.044 CLEAN-UP.
   As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be thoroughly cleaned
of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris resulting from such work.
All clean-up operations at the location of such excavation shall be
accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the
satisfaction of the Street Superintendent. From time to time as may be ordered
by the Street Superintendent and, in any event, immediately after completion of
the work, the permittee shall, at his, her or its own expense, clean up and
remove all refuse and unused materials of any kind resulting from the work and
upon failure to do so within 24 hours after having been notified to do so by
the Street Superintendent, said work may be done by the Superintendent and the
cost thereof charged to the permittee and the permittee shall also be liable
for the cost thereof under the surety bond provided hereunder.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.045 PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   The permittee shall maintain all gutters free and unobstructed for the full
depth of the adjacent curb and for at least one foot in width from the face of
such curb at the gutter line. Whenever a gutter crosses an intersecting street,
an adequate waterway shall be provided and at all times maintained. The
permittee shall make provisions to take care of all surplus water, muck, silt,
slickings or other run-off pumped from excavations or resulting from sluicing
or other operations and shall be responsible for any damage resulting from its
failure to so provide.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-18)
§ 152.046 BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Heavy duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the Street
Superintendent when the use endangers existing substructures or other property.
   (B)   Saw cutting of portland cement concrete may be required when the
nature of the work or the condition of the street warrants. When required, the
depth of the cut shall not be less than one inch in depth; however, depths
greater than one inch may be required by the Street Superintendent when
circumstances warrant. Saw cutting may be required by the Superintendent
outside the limits of the excavation over cave-outs, overbreaks and small
floating sections.
   (C)   Approved cutting of bituminous pavement surface ahead of excavations
may be required by the Street Superintendent to confine pavement damage to the
limits of the trench.
   (D)   Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest score line or
joint.
   (E)   Unstable pavement shall be removed over cave-outs and overbreaks and
the subgrade shall be treated as the main trench.
   (F)   Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly aligned
with the centerline of the trench.
   (G)   Cutouts outside of the trench lines must be normal or parallel to the
trench line.
   (H)   Boring or other methods to prevent cutting of new pavement may be
required by the Street Superintendent.
   (I)   The permittee shall not be required to repair pavement damage existing
prior to excavation unless his or her cut results in small floating sections
that may be unstable, in which case, the permittee shall remove and pave the
area.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.047 DEPTH OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall, without written permission of the Street
Superintendent, install any substructure, except manholes, vaults, valve
casings, culverts and catch basins at a vertical distance less than:
      (1)   Streets. Twenty-four inches below the established flow line of the
nearest gutter. If said flow line is not established, then the depth shall be
at a minimum of 24 inches below the surface of the nearest outermost edge of
the traveled portion of the street;
      (2)   Parkway.
         (a)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 16 inches below
established gutter grade when said substructure parallels the parkway.
         (b)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 12 inches below
the top of the established sidewalk or curb when such substructure is at right
angles to the parkway.
      (3)   Other public places. The minimum depth of any substructure in any
other public place shall be 12 inches below the surface.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall impose a duty upon the permittee to
maintain said specifications as required herein upon subsequent changes of
grade in the surface unless the grade in said substructure interferes with the
maintenance of or travel on a public street.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.048 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   (1)   Fine material, free from lumps and stone, selected from the soil
shall be thoroughly compacted around and under the substructure to the upper
level of such substructure.
      (2)   Above the upper level of the substructure, backfill material shall
be placed to the subgrade of the pavement in lifts consistent with the type of
soil involved and the degree of consolidation specified by the Village Board.
      (3)   Broken pavement, large stones, roots and other debris shall not be
used in the backfill.
   (B)   (1)   The number and size of each lift shall be dependent upon the
type of soil involved.
      (2)   Such backfill shall be done in a manner that will permit the
restoration of the surface to a density condition not less than that existing
prior to excavation unless otherwise specified.
      (3)   The Street Superintendent may require soil tests to be furnished by
a recognized soil testing laboratory or registered professional engineer
specializing in soil mechanics when, in his or her opinion, backfill for any
excavation is not being adequately compacted.
      (4)   In order for the resurfacing to be permitted, such tests must show
that the backfill material meets the minimum requirements as prescribed by the
Village Board. All expense of such tests shall be borne by the permittee.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.049 TRENCHES IN PIPE LAYING.
   The maximum length of open trench permissible, at any time, shall be in
accordance with existing codes and regulations; however, at night, no more than
50 feet may be open with proper barriers.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.050 PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK.
   After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with
diligence and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit
and shall promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original
condition, or as near as may be so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.051 URGENT WORK; EMERGENCY ACTION.
   (A)   When traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the traveling
public or the public interest require that the excavation work be performed as
emergency work, the Street Superintendent shall have full power to order, at
the time the permit is granted, that a crew of men and adequate facilities be
employed by the permittee 24 hours a day to the end that such excavation work
may be completed as soon as possible.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-24)
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the making of
such excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property
or for the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs;
provided that, the person making such excavation shall apply to the Street
Superintendent for such a permit on the first working day after such work is
commenced.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-25)
§ 152.052 NOISE, DUST AND DEBRIS.
   Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in such a manner
as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and
occupants of neighboring property. The permittee shall take appropriate
measures to reduce to the fullest extent practicable in the performance of the
excavation work, noise, dust and unsightly debris and between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. and shall not use, except in case of emergency as
otherwise provided herein, any tool, appliance or equipment producing noise of
sufficient volume to disturb the sleep or repose of occupants of the
neighboring property.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.053 PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS.
   Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision or a precise survey reference point or a
permanent survey benchmark within the village shall not be removed or disturbed
or caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining permission in
writing from the Village Board to do so. Permission to remove or disturb such
monuments, reference points or benchmarks shall only be granted upon condition
that the person applying for such permission shall pay all expenses incident to
the proper replacement of the monument by the village.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.054 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Street Superintendent shall make such inspections as are
reasonably necessary in the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall have the authority to promulgate and cause to
be enforced such rules and regulations as may be reasonably necessary to
enforce and carry out the intent of this subchapter.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-28)
§ 152.055 LOCATION RECORDS.
   (A)   Every public utility, after the enactment of this subchapter, shall
maintain records showing the location of all of its underground facilities,
except relatively minor facilities which connect a particular premises or
building to a facility serving more than one premises or building and except
oil or gas- gathering or field lines.
   (B)   Every public utility shall maintain equipment which can locate such
facilities in the field.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-29)
§ 152.056 LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO VILLAGE FOR DAMAGE.
   If any person violates any provision of this subchapter and any person or
property in consequence thereof is injured or damaged, the person so guilty of
such violation shall be civilly liable to the village in relation thereto, and
no prosecution or other proceeding by the village of such person for any
penalty imposed for a violation shall constitute a bar to such action by the
village for such damages.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.057 UNLAWFUL EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, maintains, uses or
abandons any open well, cesspool, cistern, quarry, recharging basin, catch
basin, sump, excavation for the erection of any building structure or
excavation created by the razing or removal of any building structure to allow
the same to exist without covering or surrounding such installation with
protective fencing.
   (B)   This section shall not apply during the course of repair,
construction, removal or filling of any of the structures or conditions herein
described while any worker is present at the location thereof either performing
services thereon or as a watchman to guard such location.
(2007 Code, § 33-4-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-1 through 5/11-80-23 and 430 ILCS
16/1 et seq.
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.070 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Grade.
      (1)   No sidewalk shall be built above or below the established grade of
the village and, in all cases where no grade is established, any person
building a sidewalk shall built the same according to the instructions of the
Street Superintendent and the Village Board.
      (2)   No one shall build a sidewalk unless it consist of new
construction.
      (3)   No one shall remove or destroy a sidewalk without replacing the
same with a new sidewalk.
   (B)   Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to build, lay or construct
any sidewalk along any property in the village or along any of the streets,
alleys or public highways thereon, without first filing an application for a
permit with the Village Clerk and approved by the Village Board.
   (C)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the Village Board
approves the request, the property owner shall pay one-half of the cost of the
construction, including engineering fees, and, thereafter, the sidewalk shall
be maintained by the village.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This section is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(2007 Code, § 33-5-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-13
§ 152.071 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   Request in writing.
      (1)   Any person owning property within the village who desires to have
new curbs and gutters constructed, along with street adjoining his or her
premises shall file a request with the Street Superintendent, giving the
location of the property and the length of the curbs and gutters requested.
      (2)   All installations shall conform to the requirements of 65 ILCS 5/
11-80-11 and the Environmental Barriers Act, 410 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
   (B)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the Village Board
approves the request, the property owner shall pay one-half of the cost of the
construction, including engineering fees, and, thereafter, the curbs and
gutters shall be maintained by the village.
   (C)   Approval by Village Board. The approval of the request for
construction of curbs and gutters by the Village Board shall be dependent upon
the approval of funds, priority of projects and continuity of construction for
the best benefit of the village as determined by the Village Board.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This section is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(2007 Code, § 33-5-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-11
§ 152.072 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Description of storm water sewers. Storm water sewers shall be any
pipe or sewer used for the carrying of surface drains, ground waters, roof
leaders or storm waters, rain waters or other waters other than sanitary
sewage.
   (B)   Supervision. The Street Department shall supervise all connections
made to the public storm sewer system or excavations for the purposes of
installing or repairing the same.
   (C)   Drains. It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public
street or alley or any public drain or tile within the village limits or
reasonable extension thereof or to make a connection thereto without first
obtaining a license from the village to so connect.
   (D)   Requirements; use of storm water sewers.
      (1)   Where a storm water sewer is accessible in a street, alley or
easement to a building or premises abutting thereon, the surface drains, ground
waters, roof leaders or storm waters shall be discharged into the storm water
sewer unless otherwise authorized by the village.
      (2)   Under no conditions shall sanitary sewage or wastes or any
substance other than surface waters, ground waters, roof waters or storm waters
be permitted to flow into or be connected to the storm water sewer; and no
sanitary sewer shall be connected to the storm water sewer system.
(2007 Code, § 33-5-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-7
CULVERTS
§ 152.085 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAIN OR STORM SEWER.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain or storm sewer in any public
street or property.
(2007 Code, § 33-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.086 PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to install any culvert or replace any culvert
without first obtaining a permit from the Village Clerk.
(2007 Code, § 33-6-2)
   (B)   Any person desiring a permit to install or replace any culvert shall
file an application therefor with the Village Clerk upon a form to be provided
for that purpose.
(2007 Code, § 33-6-3)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1736.png]
 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.087 PERMIT TERMINATION.
   All such permits shall terminate upon the expiration of one year following
the date of issue.
(2007 Code, § 33-6-4)
§ 152.088 TYPES OF CULVERTS.
   (A)   Culverts shall be installed where driveways or walkways cross open
ditches. The material used for the construction of the culverts shall be
reinforced concrete, corrugated steel culvert pipe with a minimum wall
thickness of 16 gauge, corrugated aluminum alloy culvert pipe with a minimum
wall thickness of 16 gauge, asbestos cement storm drain pipe (Class IV), or of
such other material as determined by the Street Department, depending upon the
conditions existing. The culverts shall be of such size, installed at the grade
and constructed with couplings as determined by the Street Superintendent. The
person desiring the culvert shall purchase a culvert, as provided herein, and
shall have it delivered on the site.
   (B)   The village shall install the culvert.
(2007 Code, § 33-6-5)
§ 152.089 COST OF INSTALLATION.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, construct and install drainage inlet boxes in such form and manner as
the Street Superintendent determines necessary depending on the conditions
existing.
(2007 Code, § 33-6-6)
§ 152.090 BACKFILL COST.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, provide and place such backfill material as the Street Superintendent
determines necessary to complete the project.
(2007 Code, § 33-6-7)
§ 152.091 REPLACEMENT COST.
   The expense of replacing any culvert shall be borne by the person making
application for the permit to install the same.
(2007 Code, § 33-6-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-7
DRIVEWAYS
§ 152.105 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles or animals
across any sidewalk in the village without having first obtained a permit
therefor.
      (2)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk
and shall be accompanied by the fee required.
      (3)   No permit for construction of a driveway for commercial use or for
the habitual use of other than the owner or occupant of the premises served
shall be issued, except upon the order of the Village Clerk.
(2007 Code, § 33-7-1)
   (B)   The fee for all such construction shall be $25.
(2007 Code, § 33-7-2)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1738.png]
 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.106 GRADE SURFACE.
   (A)   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step,
sharp depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk.
   (B)   The grade shall be as nearly as possible the same as that of the
adjoining sidewalk.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway where
the same crosses the sidewalk constructed of such materials as to render it
slippery and hazardous to pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion
vary from the grade of the sidewalk or be other than level
(2007 Code, § 33-7-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.107 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with the
specifications required by the Street Superintendent.
(2007 Code, § 33-7-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.108 BREAKING CURB; BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a permit can be issued to break a curb in the village for the
installation of a driveway or any other purpose, a bond or cash in the amount
of $500 is required to be posted with the Village Clerk.
(2007 Code, § 33-7-5)
§ 152.109 REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it cross the sidewalk and free from obstruction and
openings.
(2007 Code, § 33-7-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-2
CHAPTER 153: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
153.01   Planting generally
   
153.02   Planting trees in right-of-way
   
153.03   Removal
   
153.04   Injury
   
153.05   Advertisements or notices
   
153.06   Dangerous trees
   
153.07   Wires
   
153.08   Gas pipes
§ 153.01 PLANTING GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public street or
parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Street Superintendent and
shall be referred by him or her to the Village Board. All trees and shrubs so
planted shall be placed subject to the directions and approval of the Village
Board.
(2007 Code, § 33-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.02 PLANTING TREES IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any bushes, trees, shrubs or other plants on
the right-of-way of any public street, including the space on the right-of-way
between the sidewalk and the adjacent street pavement without written
permission from the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 33-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.03 REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub or portion
thereof in any street, parkway or other public place without having first
secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
Street Superintendent and shall be referred by him or her to the Village Board
before permission shall be granted.
(2007 Code, § 33-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.04 INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in such public
place.
(2007 Code, § 33-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.05 ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree
or shrub in any street, parkway or other public place.
(2007 Code, § 33-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.06 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the municipality at a height less than eight feet or in such a way as
to impede or interfere with traffic or travel on such public place or right-of-
way shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises
on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease. All
existing trees and shrubs that obstruct vision on or off right-of-way shall be
maintained by the owner.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which such tree grows or stands.
   (C)   The Street Superintendent may, at the owner’s expense, trim or remove
any tree or shrub so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall
be done away with.
(2007 Code, § 33-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.07 WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wires or rope to any tree or shrub
in any public street, parkway or other public place without the permission of
the Village Board.
   (B)   Any person or company given the right to maintain the poles and wires
in the streets, alleys or other public places in the municipality shall, in the
absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires
and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so far as
may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly trimmed,
subject to the supervision of the Street Superintendent so that no injury shall
be done either to the poles or wires or the shrubs and trees by their conduct.
(2007 Code, § 33-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.08 GAS PIPES.
   Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the municipality shall, in
the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any trees or shrubs.
(2007 Code, § 33-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Authority
   
154.003   Jurisdiction
   
154.004   Purpose
   
154.005   Intent
   
154.006   Scope of regulations
   
154.007   Validity of plats
   
154.008   Interpretation
   
154.009   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.020   Fees
   
154.021   Variation and relief
   
154.022   Special subdivisions
   
154.023   Amendments
   
154.024   Pre-subdivision data maps
   
154.025   Owner’s declaration
Administrative Officers and Employees
   
154.040   General
   
154.041   Plat Officer
   
154.042   Plan Commission
   
154.043   Corporate authority
   
154.044   Engineer to certify
   
154.045   Recorder of Deeds
   
154.046   Village Clerk records
   
154.047   Planning staff
   
154.048   Legal counsel
Procedures
   
154.060   General
   
154.061   Pre-application conference and investigation
   
154.062   Pre-application procedures
   
154.063   Formal procedures for reviewing preliminary and final plats
Plats and Maps
   
154.075   Compliance with regulations
   
154.076   Location maps
   
154.077   Site analysis maps
   
154.078   Preliminary plats
   
154.079   Final plat
   
154.080   Certified survey
   
154.081   Special subdivision
Design Standards
   
154.095   Conformity to plans
   
154.096   Conformity to natural features
   
154.097   Modifications for unsuitable sites
   
154.098   Easements
   
154.099   Blocks
   
154.100   Lots
   
154.101   Building setback lines
   
154.102   Parks, schools and public areas
   
154.103   Drainage
Street System Design
   
154.115   Street arrangement
   
154.116   Street alignment
   
154.117   Specific street design standards
   
154.118   Local or residential streets
   
154.119   Collector streets
   
154.120   Major streets
   
154.121   Other street requirements
   
154.122   Street design standards
Storm Water Management
   
154.135   Application
   
154.136   Drainage plan drawings
   
154.137   Maximum allowable run-off
   
154.138   Collection of flows
   
154.139   Design formula
   
154.140   Minimum detention outlet size
   
154.141   Detention storage requirement
   
154.142   Detention pond design criteria
   
154.143   Retention pond design criteria
   
154.144   Maintenance responsibilities
   
154.145   Definitions
Required Improvements
   
154.160   General
   
154.161   Grading and monumentation
   
154.162   Street improvements
   
154.163   Sidewalks
   
154.164   Curbs
   
154.165   Parkway vegetation
   
154.166   Public utilities
   
154.167   Storm drainage
   
154.168   Dams and impoundment structures
   
154.169   Public water systems
   
154.170   Sanitary sewers
   
154.171   Street lamps
   
154.172   Street signs
Property Specifications
   
154.185   Dedications
   
154.186   Easements
   
154.187   Reservations
   
154.188   Vacations
   
154.189   Bonds and financial guarantees
 
   
154.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 152
   Zoning, see
Ch. 155
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, referred to and cited as “The 1973 Land
Subdivision Code of the Village of Oreana”.
(2007 Code, § 34-1-1)
§ 154.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter was adopted under authority granted by 65 ILCS.
(2007 Code, § 34-1-2)
§ 154.003 JURISDICTION.
   The plat approval jurisdiction of the village shall include all land within
a mile and one-half of the village limits or all land specifically referred to
in the official village plan.
(2007 Code, § 34-1-3)
§ 154.004 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the division of
land within the plat approval jurisdiction of the village to prevent the
subdivision of land for uses to which the land is not suited and to regulate
the manner of subdivision so as to prevent serious hazards and problems to the
citizens of the community.
   (B)   Therefore, the regulations, requirements, standards, procedures,
specifications and controls contained herein are established in order to ensure
proper development of the village and to promote the public health, safety,
convenience, prosperity, aesthetics and general welfare of the community.
(2007 Code, § 34-1-4)
§ 154.005 INTENT.
   It is intended that this chapter establish regulations, requirements,
standards, procedure, specifications and controls specifically needed:
   (A)   To provide for the orderly division of land by requiring the proper
description, monumentation and recording of subdivided land;
   (B)   To establish what land areas are and are not eligible for division
into lots and to regulate uses of land to prevent land from being used for
purposes which the land is not suited;
   (C)   To provide for reasonable protection and conservation of those natural
resources, (land, air, vegetation and water) upon which the contained
prosperity, safety, health and welfare of the community and surrounding region
may depend;
   (D)   To secure adequate safeguards as part of the subdivision processes to
protect the general public from hazards of flooding, fire, overcrowding and
other problems which could endanger public health or safety;
   (E)   To secure adequate public convenience and safety through regulations
governing the installation, design and location of public streets;
   (F)   To ensure adequate provisions are made for adequate open space,
utilities and other public facilities deemed necessary for general public
health and convenience;
   (G)   To ensure proper development of the community by requiring subdivision
to be developed according to the requirement of all officially adopted village
plans and ordinances and, in this respect, to require dedication or reservation
of land necessary to comply with these documents;
   (H)   To protect the community’s taxable resources by requiring that
subdivision be designed and developed so as not to impose excessive maintenance
burdens on the community, but still allowing for reasonable low development
costs for the developer and general home owners;
   (I)   To prevent scattered development beyond the reasonable service area of
community facilities and utilities; and
   (J)   To provide reasonable and equitable procedures and regulations for
handling all subdivision plats by providing uniform procedures and standards
for observance by both the approving authority and subdivider and to do this
without causing unnecessary and unreasonable cost to the developer, village or
home owner.
(2007 Code, § 34-1-5)
§ 154.006 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   This chapter shall govern all divisions of land within the plat jurisdiction
of the village, except the following:
   (A)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access or special utility easements;
   (B)   The division of lots or blocks less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new street or easements of access or
special utility easements, and does not reduce remaining lots size below the
minimum required;
   (C)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land which does not reduce the remaining lot size below the
minimum required;
   (D)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or
special utility easements;
   (E)   The conveyance of parcels of land for right-of-way or other public use
or grants or conveyance relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
   (F)   Conveyance made to correct the description in prior conveyances;
   (G)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
recorded on or before 7-17-1959 and not involving any new streets or easements
of access or special utility easements;
   (H)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or special
utility easements; and
   (I)   (1)   The sale of a single lot less than five acres from a larger
tract when a survey is made by a registered surveyor; and
      (2)   Provided, however, that, this exemption shall not apply to the sale
of any subsequent lots from the same larger tract of land as determined by the
dimensions and configuration of the larger tract existing as of 10-1-1973.
(2007 Code, § 34-1-6)
§ 154.007 VALIDITY OF PLATS.
   No subdivision of land or dedication of access of easement serving more than
two lots in the plat jurisdiction of this chapter made after the effective date
of this chapter shall be considered valid, entitled to record in the office of
county’s Recorder of Deeds or eligible for building permits from the village’s
permit officer, unless made and improved in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter and representing either a minor subdivision, major subdivision,
replat or special subdivision.
(2007 Code, § 34-1-7)
§ 154.008 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the village and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other power granted by the state statutes.
(2007 Code, § 34-1-8)
§ 154.009 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   ALLEY. A right-of-way which affords secondary means of access to properties
abutting upon a street.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land so
designated on the preliminary plan between which line and the adjacent street,
the erection of an enclosed structure or of a fence or hedge over three feet
high is prohibited.
   CERTIFIED PLAT. A plat used for recording a minor subdivision or replat, as
described in §§
154.075 through
154.081 of this chapter.
   CIRCULATION PLAN. The portion of the village plan providing and planning for
the present and future street and road system for the village.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from minor streets to a
thoroughfare, including the principal entrance streets of residential
development and the principal circulating streets within such a development.
   CROSSWALK. A public right-of-way located across a block to provide
pedestrian access to adjacent streets or alleys.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street with only one outlet.
   FINAL PLAT. A map or plan of a subdivision and any accompanying material, as
described in §§
154.075 through
154.081 of this chapter.
   GROSS LAND AREA. The entire area of a development including lots, streets
and alleys, measured to the centerline of any bounding streets.
   HALF STREET. A street bordering one or more property lines of a tract of
land in which the subdivider has allocated but part of the ultimate right-of-
way width.
   IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage ditch, water
main, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrian way, planting strip, off-street
parking area or other facility for which the village may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
transfer of ownership or for building development.
   LOT, BUTT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner lots.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. (Also called REVERSE FRONTAGE.) A lot which has a pair
of opposite lot lines along two substantially parallel streets, and which is
not a corner lot.
   MAJOR STREET. A street of considerable continuity which serves or is
intended to serve as a major traffic artery connecting various sections of the
village.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to
a thoroughfare and which provides access to abutting properties and protection
from through traffic.
   MINOR STREET. A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
abutting properties and local needs of a neighborhood.
   NET LAND AREA OF THE SUBDIVISION WHICH COULD BE DEVELOPED. The area of land
involved after the street right-of-way has been subtracted.
   OFFICIAL PLAN. The composite of the functional and geographic elements of
the comprehensive village plan or any segment thereof in the form of plans,
maps, charts and textual material, as adopted by the village.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to the land sought
to be subdivided under this chapter.
   PARKWAY. An unpaved strip of land situated within the street.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A right-of-way across or within a block, for use by
pedestrian traffic whether designated as a pedestrian way, crosswalk or however
otherwise designated.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The Village of Oreana Plan Commission.
   PRIVATE STREET. An undedicated street which is privately owned and
maintained.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. A tentative map or plan of a proposed subdivision, as
described in §§
154.075 through
154.081 of this chapter.
   PRESIDENT. The President of the Village of Oreana.
   ROADWAY. The portion of the street available for vehicular traffic situated
between the curb or combination curb and gutter lines.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street or crosswalk way, paved or otherwise
surfaced, intended for pedestrian use only.
   STREET. A right-of-way which affords primary means of access by pedestrians
and vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, avenue,
highway, road, boulevard, lane or however otherwise designated.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the property lines delineating a
street.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any owner commencing proceedings under this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION OF LAND. The division of land or a tract of land into two or
more parts, lots or parcels, any division of land when a new street is involved
for the purpose of sale, transfer of ownership or building development. The
term SUBDIVISION includes resubdivision and the division of a lot or parcel,
any of which is less than ten acres in area.
   SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS. The basic land planning principles established
as guides for the preparation of preliminary plans.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Oreana, Illinois.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The Village Board of the Village of Oreana, Illinois.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. The Village Engineer of the Village of Oreana, Illinois,
or his or her representative duly appointed by the Village Board.
(2007 Code, § 34-2-1)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.020 FEES.
   (A)   The following regulations and charges shall be hereby established to
govern the administration of this chapter.
   (B)   There is hereby established a fee for the approval of preliminary and
final plats, as follows:
      (1)   Preliminary plat: $10 for each preliminary plat, plus $1 for each
lot within the proposed subdivision, with a minimum total charge of $15; and
      (2)   Final plat: $1 for each lot within each subdivision plat submitted
with a minimum fee of $5. An additional fee charge to the subdivider shall be
made for cost of engineering inspections by the Village Engineer. Such fee
shall be established by the village based on current rates and standard
engineering practice. All such fees shall be payable to the village, by
certified check or money order.
(2007 Code, § 34-9-1)
§ 154.021 VARIATION AND RELIEF.
   (A)   The Village Board may, on recommendation of the Plan Commission, grant
special exceptions or variances under these regulations.
   (B)   The corporate authority may grant variances to these regulations where
unusual or exceptional factors or conditions require such modification;
provided that, the Plan Commission, after a hearing, shall:
      (1)   Find that unusual topographical or exceptional physical conditions
exist;
      (2)   Find that strict compliance with these regulations would create an
extraordinary hardship in the face of the exceptional conditions;
      (3)   Permit any modification to depart from these regulations only to
the extent necessary to remove the extraordinary hardship;
      (4)   Find that such modifications would improve the village over what
would be allowed under the terms of this chapter;
      (5)   Find that any modification granted will not be detrimental to the
public interest not in conflict with the intent and purpose of these
regulations; and
      (6)   Require such other conditions to be met by the proposed plat as the
Planning Commission may find necessary to accomplish the purpose of this
chapter when modified.
(2007 Code, § 34-9-3)
§ 154.022 SPECIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The standards and requirements of this chapter may be modified on a broad
scale by the Village Board in the case of a plan or program for a special
subdivision or neighborhood unit. Such modification shall not be approved until
after written recommendation of the Plan Commission, which recommendation may
be given when, in the judgment of the Plan Commission, the specific plan or
program presented provides adequate public space and improvements for the
circulation, recreation, light, air and service needs of the tract when fully
developed and populated, and which also provides such covenants or other legal
provisions as will assure conformity to and achievement of the plan. The
village further reserves the right to require the subdivider to meet any
additional specifications and/or restrictions it may deem necessary to
accomplish the purpose of this chapter when modified.
(2007 Code, § 34-9-4)
§ 154.023 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this chapter shall be approved by the Village Board, as
provided by statute; providing, however, that, no amendment shall be adopted
without first referring the proposed amendment to the Plan Commission and
receiving a report therefrom; except, however, if no report is received within
90 days, it shall be deemed to be approved by the Plan Commission.
(2007 Code, § 34-9-5)
§ 154.024 PRE-SUBDIVISION DATA MAPS.
   (A)   Map No. 1: Soils.
      (1)   In many areas, detailed soil mapping has been completed by the
county’s Soil and Water Conservation District and is available to interested
landowners.
      (2)   In those areas where mapping has not been completed, the
information may be obtained at no cost to the subdivider through the county’s
Soil and Water Conservation District by means of a conservation agreement.
   (B)   Map No. 2: Slope.
      (1)   Slope information can readily be obtained from a U.S.G.S.
Topographic Map at five-foot level and from information contained in the above
soil surveys.
      (2)   Slope data should be expressed in terms of the following
classification:
Class % Slope
Class % Slope
A     0-.29
B     0.3-.99
C     1.0-3.9
D     4.0-9.9
E     10.0-14.9
F     15.0-24.9
G     25.0-49.9
H     50+
 
   (C)   Map No. 3: Vegetation.
      (1)   Information on significant vegetative cover can readily be obtained
on recent aerial photographs of the site from actual site inspection.
      (2)   Photos are available in the county’s Regional Plan Commission
office.
   (D)   Map No. 4: Flood Level. Floodplain and flood level information can
readily be obtained from the state’s Water Survey, Department of Registration
and Education. Flood information should be shown for the ten-year flood
recurrence and either the 100-year flood recurrence or the maximum flood of
record.
(2007 Code, Ch. 34, Table V-1)
§ 154.025 OWNER’S DECLARATION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1740.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1742.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1744.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1746.png]
 
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 154.040 GENERAL.
   This chapter shall be administered by the following bodies and officials in
the manner prescribed herein.
(2007 Code, § 34-3-1)
§ 154.041 PLAT OFFICER.
   (A)   The office of Plat Officer is hereby created and such officer upon
appointment by the President of the village shall serve for a term of one year
and shall be an ex-officio member of the Plan Commission of the village.
   (B)   The duties of the Plat Officer shall be as follows.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Plat Officer to meet with the
developers or other parties wishing to subdivide to explain the intent and
regulations of this chapter.
      (2)   The responsibilities of the Plat Officer shall be to approve and/or
to sign maps, replats, minor subdivisions and major subdivisions in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The Plat Officer shall further be responsible for interpreting this
chapter and his or her judgment, subject to review by the Plan Commission,
shall govern in determining which platting processes shall be required, the
minor subdivision, major subdivision or replat.
(2007 Code, § 34-3-2)
§ 154.042 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   PLAN COMMISSION is the Plan Commission of the village. It shall be the
responsibility of the Plan Commission to review and make recommendations on all
major subdivision plats.
   (B)   The Plan Commission is hereby empowered to review such plats and make
recommendations for its approval, rejection or conditional approval; to
recommend dedication of public sites when designated in the comprehensive plan;
to recommend standards for construction and to recommend any other requirement
which is in the interest of public welfare.
   (C)   It is further the responsibility of the Plan Commission to hear and
decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an error in any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the Plat Officer in the
enforcement of this chapter and to recommend variances from stria application
of this chapter when such variances are in the best public interest and which
will not substantially interfere with the general overall standards and
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   It is further the responsibility of the Plan Commission to
periodically review and recommend changes in this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 34-3-3)
§ 154.043 CORPORATE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The CORPORATE AUTHORITY is the Village Board. It shall be the
authorized body for approving, conditionally approving or denying a subdivision
plat.
   (B)   The corporate authority shall also have the right to adopt or reject
any proposed amendments to this chapter which the Plan Commission might submit
to it.
(2007 Code, § 34-3-4)
§ 154.044 ENGINEER TO CERTIFY.
   (A)   The VILLAGE ENGINEER is a duly qualified engineer retained by the
Village Board. It shall be the responsibility of the Engineer to certify all
work completed within a subdivision.
   (B)   The corporate authority shall not approve any plat until such report
is received and no plat shall be accepted for final processing until certified
by the Engineer as to improvement or that a proper bond has been filed.
(2007 Code, § 34-3-5)
§ 154.045 RECORDER OF DEEDS.
   RECORDER OF DEEDS is the Recorder of Deeds of the county. The Recorder of
Deeds shall be responsible for accepting or rejecting all plats offered for
recording in accordance to the provisions of this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 34-3-6)
§ 154.046 VILLAGE CLERK RECORDS.
   The VILLAGE CLERK is an elected official of the village. The Clerk shall
keep records of all plats reviewed by the Plan Commission.
(2007 Code, § 34-3-7)
§ 154.047 PLANNING STAFF.
   PLANNING STAFF shall be any qualified land use planner which the corporate
authority may designate to assist them in various village plans.
(2007 Code, § 34-3-8)
§ 154.048 LEGAL COUNSEL.
   LEGAL COUNSEL is an attorney retained by the village as its legal counsel.
It shall be the responsibility of legal counsel to review the bonds for the
subdivision improvements.
(2007 Code, § 34-3-9)
PROCEDURES
§ 154.060 GENERAL.
   Any person, corporation, firm or agent thereof, intending to subdivide land
within the plat jurisdiction of the village shall proceed according to the
steps outlined in this chapter.
(2007 Code, § 34-4-1)
§ 154.061 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   This chapter requires that before the village accepts for review any
preliminary subdivision plat, final plat, plan development zoning plat or any
other survey made for the purpose of dividing land, that the subdivider or his
or her agents shall first meet with the village’s Plan Commission for pre-
application conferences and site investigations.
   (B)   The purpose of the pre-application meetings and investigations are as
follows:
      (1)   To determine the proper classification or procedure which the
subdivider should follow in the subdivision of the tract of land in question;
      (2)   To ensure the subdivider fully understands all the provisions of
this chapter and other village codes related to the development of land;
      (3)   To ensure the subdivider is thoroughly familiar with the standards,
materials and specifications of the village governing the construction of
streets, and other public facilities in the area he intends to subdivide;
      (4)   To find out whether any other village action such as zoning,
annexation or street vacation needs to be taken prior to the development of the
land;
      (5)   To ensure the subdivider will conduct adequate background studies
to allow the subdivider to properly design his or her subdivision and to allow
the village proper information to review the subdivision plan; and
      (6)   To ensure the subdivision will be designated consistent with the
village official comprehensive plans or official village map and to ensure the
subdivider is aware of all the provisions of the plan which would effect the
design of his or her subdivision.
(2007 Code, § 34-4-2)
§ 154.062 PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   The following steps set forth the pre-application conference and
investigation procedures in greater detail.
   (A)   Step One: Submittal.
      (1)   A subdivider wishing to arrange for pre-application hearings with
the village’s Plan Commission shall submit a written request to the Plan
Commission for pre-application review for the proposed subdivision. The request
shall contain a general description of the location and size of the tract to be
platted; the intent as to character, type and use anticipated for the property
and type of structures to be developed; and, in a general manner, the extent
and character of the improvements to be made by the subdivider. If appropriate,
a description of any unique hardship or difficulty which might limit the
development of the property under consideration.
      (2)   The subdivider should also submit with the letter a location map
(see §§ 154.075 through 154.081 of this chapter) of the property intended to be
subdivided.
   (B)   Step Two: Establishment of Meeting Date and Classification.
      (1)   The village’s Plat Officer shall then arrange with the Chairperson
of the Plan Commission to have a hearing date set within 30 days. The
Chairperson of the Plan Commission shall then notify the members of the
Commission and staff of the meeting date and a letter should also be sent to
the subdivider formally notifying subdivider of the time and place of the
hearing.
      (2)   When the subdivider submits his or her letter to the village’s Plat
Officer, the village’s Plat Officer shall make a determination of what
classifications subdivision procedure the subdivider should follow and advise
the subdivider as to what additional information the subdivider should submit
to the village’s Plan Commission.
      (3)   All lands to be subdivided within the village shall be classified
as one of the following four types of subdivision classifications: a major
subdivision; minor subdivision; special subdivision; or replat.
   (C)   Step Three: Site Analysis (Major or Special Subdivisions). If the
village’s Plat Officer determines that land should be processed as either a
major subdivision or special subdivision, the Plat Officer should inform the
subdivider that he or she will be required to submit a series of maps for the
purposes of site evaluations. Specific regulations as to how the maps should be
drawn and how technical information is to be presented is covered in §
154.077 of this chapter. In general, these maps should include:
      (1)   A map of general slope classification and topographic contours;
      (2)   A map of general drainage and high water marks;
      (3)   A map of significant vegetation;
      (4)   A map of general soil types; and
      (5)   In areas to be developed without community water or sewer systems,
tests for ground water supply availability and percolation information may also
be required.
   (D)   Step Four: The Neighborhood Plan and Site Recommendations (Major or
Special Subdivision). For all major subdivisions, the Plan Commission staff
shall direct its staff to prepare a general neighborhood plan (Plate IV-I) for
the pre-application conference. The neighborhood plan should cover all areas
within a one-half mile of the proposed tract or an area consistent with the
standard neighborhood limits within which the tract lies. This neighborhood
plan should include major and collector street alignments and widths; general
location of minor streets; proposed drainage, conservation and major utility
easements; all proposed dedications and reservations shown on the village’s
official comprehensive plan or official map; and general development and design
recommendations.
   (E)   Step Five: Site Discussions.
      (1)   The Plan Commission, staff and subdivider, at the pre-application
conference, shall discuss the site analysis map and the general neighborhood
plan prepared by the staff. From this discussion, the general design concepts
and development plan for the subdivision should be established.
      (2)   Further, pre-application meetings may be required by the Commission
when, in the opinion of the Commission, additional site investigations are
necessary for proper review of a subdivision plat for the tract or tracts in
question.
   (F)   Step Six: Commission’s Recommendations. Within 15 days after the pre-
application conference, the Commission shall submit to the developer, and to
the Village Board in writing, its recommendations as to the development of the
site.
   (G)   Step Seven: Sketch Plan or Preliminary Plan (Optional). In cases of
all minor and replats, a sketch plan shall be required and shall be presented
at the pre-application conference. In the cases of special subdivisions or
major subdivisions, a submission of a sketch plan is at the discretion of the
subdivides. Where the subdivider feels he or she fully understands the
recommendations of the Plan Commission, he or she may proceed to the
preliminary plat sketch without a sketch plan. If the subdivider feels unclear
or disagrees with the recommendations of the Plan Commission, he or she may
submit a sketch plan in accordance with regulations of §§
154.075 through
154.081 of this chapter for further discussion with the Plan Commission and
Village Board prior to his or her engaging in more expensive engineering
drawings.
(2007 Code, § 34-4-2)
§ 154.063 FORMAL PROCEDURES FOR REVIEWING PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   General. After the subdivider has satisfied the pre-application
requirements of this chapter (§
154.061 of this chapter) and after the Plan Commission has concurred with the
decision of the Plat Officer as to the proper classification of the proposed
subdivision, the subdivider then shall proceed to process his or her plat in
accordance with the appropriate classification procedures established by this
subchapter. The following sections, therefore, set the appropriate procedural
requirements for minor subdivisions, replats, major subdivisions or special
subdivisions.
   (B)   Minor subdivision.
      (1)   The minor subdivision procedures shall be allowed when in the
determination of the Plan Commission five lots or less will be created; the
subdivision fronts on an existing adequately improved street; does not involve
any new streets; easements of access or the extension of other municipal
facilities; does not adversely affect the development of the remainder of the
parcel or adjoining property; and does not conflict with any provisions of the
official map or other applicable regulations or plans.
      (2)   After the Plan Commission approves the classification of the
proposed subdivision as a minor plat, it shall be processed in one step in
accordance with the following procedures.
         (a)   The subdivider shall prepare a certified survey map in
accordance with the regulations set forth in §
154.079 of this chapter and shall file the original linen or Mylar and seven
copies of the map and the letter of application with the Plan Commission, who
within a period of 30 days shall approve, conditionally approve or reject the
plat.
         (b)   Before approving or rejecting any plat, the Plan Commission
shall submit one copy of the certified survey map to each of the utilities
companies to ascertain whether any utilities easements are required; and one
copy to the tax officer to ascertain whether there are any unpaid taxes. These
agencies within seven days should return their comments. If no answer is
received within 15 days, it shall be considered that there are no objections to
the plat. If the Commission rejects the subdivision, its objections shall be in
writing.
         (c)   When a minor subdivision is considered by the Plan Commission,
the Chairperson of the Plan Commission shall sign the plat and within 15 days
submit the original linen and all copies, bearing his or her name, date and
recommendation to the Village Board for final action.
   (C)   Major subdivision.
      (1)   The processing of a subdivision as a major subdivision shall be
required on any parcel of ground not previously platted, where major street
improvements, easements or dedications are required, or where more than five
lots are being created through the subdivision processes.
      (2)   The major subdivision shall be processed in three steps, the
preliminary plat stage, the construction and inspection stage and the final
plat stage. The following sections set the proper procedures to be followed in
each of the three stages mentioned. A review and approval of each of these
stages will be necessary before the subdivider will be entitled to proceed to
the following stage.
         (a)   Preliminary or tentative plat.
            1.   A preliminary plat shall be eligible for review when the
subdivider has satisfied the pre-application requirements of this chapter, when
he or she has paid his or her plat fees and when he or she has submitted to the
Plat Officer (Building Inspector) ten copies of the layout plat, three copies
of the engineering drawings, plus three copies of the proposed deed
restrictions to be established for the proposed lots.
            2.   The Plat Officer shall notify the Chairperson of the Plan
Commission and a public hearing shall be set within 30 days to review the
preliminary plat, engineering drawings and suggested deed restrictions. The
subdivider also shall be given adequate written notice of meeting. The copies
of the proposed preliminary plat should then be sent to the county’s Health
Department, appropriate drainage districts, the township board, appropriate
planning staff of the village’s Plan Commission, the electric company, the
telephone company, the School Board and the Village Engineer 15 days prior to
the public hearing. Comments from these agencies should be submitted to the
Village Plan Commission prior to the public hearing. If no comment is received
by the time of the meeting, the Commission shall consider the agencies have no
recommendations.
            3.   At the public hearing, the Plan Commission shall recommend
approval, conditional approval, or rejection of the proposed plat. Copies of
the recommendation of the Plan Commission and the original linen copy of the
plat shall then be sent to the Village Board and additional copies of the
village action should be sent to the subdivider.
            4.   After receiving the recommendations of the Village Plan
Commission, the village shall act upon the proposed plat within 60 days. If
approved, the President of the village shall sign and date the original and
three copies of the plat and also direct the Chairperson of the Plan Commission
to sign and date such plats.
         (b)   Inspection and work certification. Upon approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider shall meet with the Building Inspector to
receive approval to start work on the public improvement within the subdivision
and during construction shall meet the following requirements.
            1.   The subdividing contractor shall be duly certified and bonded
by the village to undertake such work. In the event that the contractor is
required to post his or her bond, such bond should be drawn in accordance with
regulations in village codes.
            2.   The subdivider shall also submit to the Village Engineer
certifications showing the type materials and amounts used in construction meet
the standard of this chapter.
            3.   The subdivider shall also arrange for various inspections of
improvements to be made by the Village Engineer or Inspector at pre-arranged
points during the course of construction as provided for in this chapter.
            4.   The design engineer shall also be required to inspect work to
ensure that it conforms to the specifications in the preliminary plat and upon
the works completion shall certify that the work has been completed according
to the engineering and design plans as approved by the village.
            5.   Upon proper completion of improvements, the Village Engineer
or Inspector shall submit to the Village Board a full report, (including an
inspection certification, §§
154.075 through
154.081 of this chapter) on improvements and certifications thereof. If the
Engineer finds that all improvements are installed to the standards agreed upon
in the preliminary plat or if a bond in proper legal form has been submitted
(the Village Board, however, shall not formally accept any dedicated streets
until one year after actual construction, the maintenance during this time
shall be the subdivided responsibility), the development is ready for final
platting.
         (c)   Final plat.
            1.   The final plat shall be ready for review after the Building
Inspector notifies the Chairperson of the Plan Commission that the work has
been completed or adequate bonds have been accepted by the village. The
subdivider shall prepare a final plat and a letter of application in accordance
with this chapter and shall file five copies of the plat with the Village
Building Inspector.
            2.   The village’s Plan Commission shall then examine the final
plat for its conformance with: the approved preliminary plat; any conditions of
approval of the preliminary plat; the regulations of this chapter and all other
village ordinances. The Commission then should recommend approval, conditional
approval or rejection of the plat to the Village Board. The Village Board
should act within 60 days on the plat.
         (d)   Recordation. After the final plat has been approved and required
improvements either installed or sureties ensuring their installation provided,
the Village Clerk shall cause the certificate inscribed upon the plat attesting
to such approval to be duly executed and the Village Clerk shall record the
plat with the county’s Register of Deeds. The Register of Deeds cannot record
the plat unless it is offered within 30 days from the date of the last
approval.
   (D)   Replat procedures. The replat procedures shall apply when an
alteration, redesign or redivision is proposed for an existing legally recorded
subdivision or part thereof. The replace procedures may be processed in one or
two steps depending upon whether or not it is necessary to vacate or alter any
streets, easements, lots or other public facilities. In the instance where no
public facilities, easements, lot records or other improvements are involved
and where the plan change corresponds with the provisions of the village’s
Comprehensive Plan, the further subdivision or other alteration of lots in
existing subdivisions shall follow the same procedures as described under a
minor subdivision; in all other instances involving subdivisions classified as
replats the original plat must be vacated according to the following section.
      (1)   Vacation of existing plat.
         (a)   Any person, firm or agent thereof wishing to have vacated
existing lot lines, public streets, highways or alleys or any easement other
than easements granted between individual property owners shall file a written
instrument and plat with the village officials showing what easements and
rights-of-way are to be vacated. Such an instrument and replat shall be
reviewed by the Plan Commission, the County Superintendent of Highways, the
District Engineer of the Department of Public Works and Buildings of the state
and the effected utility companies.
         (b)   The village’s Plan Commission, after receiving the comments of
these agencies, shall make its recommendations on the plat to the Village
Board. If the Village Board concurs with the vacation, the Village Clerk shall
submit the resolution of the Village Board, the instrument and plat to the
county’s Recorder of Deeds, who then shall officially record and cancel the
entire plat of record or specific portions thereof.
      (2)   Review of plat. After a vacation of a previous plat has been
approved by the Village Board and recorded in the office of the county’s
Recorder of Deeds, the subdivider may then submit his or her petition for the
replat of the subdivision involved. The subdivision shall be classified by the
village’s Building Inspector as either major, minor or special subdivision and
shall then proceed in accordance with the regulations established for the
classification given to the subdivision.
   (E)   Special subdivisions or planned unit development.
      (1)   Any parcel of land five acres or more can be considered for a
special subdivision when both the subdivider and the village’s Plan Commission
concur in the pre-application conference that the land can best be developed as
a planned unit development or a special subdivision. The Plan Commission shall
approve the planned development only if it finds that the planned development
satisfies all of the following standards.
         (a)   The planned development is consistent with the comprehensive
plan for the community.
         (b)   The planned development is an effective and unified treatment of
the development possibilities on the project site (and the development plan
makes appropriate provision for the preservation of streams and stream banks,
wooded cover, rough terrain and similar areas).
         (c)   The planned development shall be in harmony with any existing or
proposed development in the area surrounding the project site.
         (d)   The approval of the plan will not represent an increased
maintenance burden on roads, drainage ways and public utilities to the village,
township or county over what these agencies would have to incur if the
subdivision was developed as a standard subdivision.
         (e)   Upon classification of any plat as a special subdivision or
planned unit development by the Plan Commission, the subdivider is then
eligible to submit to the village’s Building Inspector a letter requesting
joint zoning and subdivision action. This letter should also contain an outline
of the development proposals and a copy of a planned development plat drawn in
accordance with the standards in §§
154.075 through
154.081 of this chapter. The Building Inspector shall arrange to have a joint
meeting of the Plan Commission and Zoning Board within 30 days of submission of
the plat and give notice to the subdivider of the time and place of the
meeting.
         (f)   Except for the granting of special relief, legal notification
and the combined action of the Zoning Board and Plan Commission, the plat shall
then be processed similarly to that of a major plat. (All planned unit
developments must be approved by two-thirds vote of the members present at any
Village Board meeting.) Since special subdivisions combine zoning with
subdivision procedures, all hearings shall comply with publication requirements
of the state for zoning hearings.
         (g)   There should be, therefore, a 15-day legal publication given in
advance of a public meeting where special subdivisions are to be reviewed.
      (2)   The Building Inspector when certifying the work of the planned unit
development, special plat, or when issuing building permits for the same shall
only be allowed to issue permits consistent with the detailed plans shown on
the plat. No building permits may be issued on land with the planned
development subdivision until the final plan for development has been approved.
      (3)   The final plat shall be processed similarly to that of a major
subdivision.
(2007 Code, § 34-4-3)
PLATS AND MAPS
§ 154.075 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   All plats, plans, maps, surveys, certificates, owners declarations,
engineering specifications and restrictive covenants to be filed for action of
the village shall be prepared in accordance with the regulations contained in
this subchapter.
(2007 Code, § 34-5-1)
§ 154.076 LOCATION MAPS.
   (A)   The maps used for showing the general location of subdivision and its
relationship to surrounding areas shall be at a scale of one inch to 1,000 feet
(1" = 1,000') (it is suggested that the township maps obtainable from either
the village or county planning office would make a good standard base map).
Such maps shall be prepared similar to Map No. V-1 shown on the ordinance
codified herein. The dimensions of such maps shall be adequate to show the true
relationship of the proposed subdivision and the village limits.
   (B)   The following information shall be shown on the face of the plat:
      (1)   The outline of the proposed subdivision with the area of the
subdivision cross-hatched;
      (2)   The name and address of the subdivider;
      (3)   A legal description of the proposed subdivision;
      (4)   A north point and graphic scale;
      (5)   The date of submission;
      (6)   The location of surrounding schools, major streets and highways,
shopping and employment centers and other major facilities;
      (7)   A written statement of how water and sewage treatment will be
handled;
      (8)   The existing zoning on the tract to be subdivided and surrounding
the tract; and
      (9)   The ownership of surrounding land area.
(2007 Code, § 34-5-2)
§ 154.077 SITE ANALYSIS MAPS.
   Site analysis maps shall consist of at least four maps, a scale of not more
than one inch equals 200 feet (1” = 200’). Such maps may be approximate scaled
pencil drawings and shall be drawn to the maps on Plate V-2, shown on the
ordinance codified herein. Section 154.024 of this chapter shows how
information can be inexpensively obtained.
(2007 Code, § 34-5-3)
§ 154.078 PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   All preliminary plats for major subdivisions shall consist of a
location map, layout plan, engineering specification and proposed restrictive
covenants. The layout map shall be at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet (1" =
100') and shall be prepared similar to Plate V-2 on the ordinance codified
herein.
   (B)   It shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Identification and description.
         (a)   The proposed name of the subdivision or title under which it is
to be recorded (not duplicating a name of any plat heretofore recorded in the
county);
         (b)   The names and addresses of the owner;
         (c)   The name and seal of the subdivider, engineer and registered
land surveyor;
         (d)   The legal description of the plat;
         (e)   The north point, graphic (engineering) scale of one inch to 100
feet (1” = 100’);
         (f)   The date of preparation; and
         (g)   A note stating “preliminary plat”, not to be recorded by the
Recorder of Deeds.
      (2)   Existing conditions.
         (a)   The boundary line of the proposed subdivision shall be clearly
indicated;
         (b)   The total approximate acreage therein;
         (c)   The locations, widths and names of all existing or previously
platted streets or other public ways, showing type of improvements, if any,
railroad and utility right-of-way, parks and other public open spaces,
permanent buildings and structures, easements, section and township lines
within the tract and to a distance of 200 feet beyond the proposed subdivision;
         (d)   The location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts
or other underground facilities within the proposed subdivisions and to a
distance of 200 feet beyond;
         (e)   Topographic data including existing contours at vertical
intervals of not more than two feet unless a greater interval is required to
properly depict rough terrain. Topographic data shall refer to the United
States Geological North American Datum-Mean Seal Level Elevation. Watercourses,
marshes, rock outcrops and other features significant to the Plan Commission
shall also be shown;
         (f)   Zoning classification for, and adjacent to, the tract; and
         (g)   Overflow area boundary for appropriate water levels. (See §§
154.095 through 154.103, 154.115 through 154.122 and 154.135 through 154.145 of
this chapter.)
      (3)   Subdivision design features.
         (a)   Layout of streets showing right-of-way widths and street names.
Public streets shall be required in all subdivisions;
         (b)   Location and widths of alleys, pedestrian ways, utility
easements, lots and setback lines;
         (c)   Areas intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use,
including, in each, the approximate area in acres;
         (d)   Layout, numbers and dimensions of lots to the nearest foot,
letters shall not be used for identification of lots or blocks;
         (e)   Minimum front and side street building lines, with dimensions
indicated;
         (f)   Areas other than streets, alleys, pedestrian ways and easements
intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use; for each, the approximate
area in acres shall be indicated; and
         (g)   Site data including total acres, number of lots, typical lot
dimensions and area, lineal feet in streets, acres in streets, parks and
similar public or semi-public areas.
      (4)   Protective covenants. All protective covenants for a proposed
subdivision shall accompany the preliminary plan (i.e., type of structures,
architectural controls and the like).
      (5)   Construction plans. As part of the preliminary subdivision plan by
the village, the subdivider prepares and submits construction plans of the
subdivision for approval. They should contain all necessary details, including
cost estimates, and be prepared by a registered professional engineer and
include the following:
         (a)   Cross-sections of proposed streets, alleys, crosswalks and the
like and a profile of each with proposed grades, existing drainage courses,
watershed area and structures, width of roadway, location of sidewalk, type of
roadway surfacing, curbs, planting strips, curb openings, street lights and
traffic signals; and
         (c)   Complete construction plans for utilities including water,
sanitary sewers, storm sewers and other facilities.
      (6)   Approval certificate. The plat shall also contain an appropriate
place of signatures of approving bodies and shall be worded similar to example
below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1748.png]
 
(2007 Code, § 34-5-4)
§ 154.079 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall be drawn in ink on tracing cloth or Mylar (sheet
size 18 inches by 24 inches within the border) and shall be at a scale of 100
feet to one inch. Where necessary, the plat may be on several sheets
accompanied by an index sheet showing the entire subdivision.
   (B)   Identification (to be shown on face of final plat):
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision (must not duplicate others in county),
township, tract and original lot or section number;
      (2)   Control points. All dimensions, angles and bearings are to be
referred to control points, nearest established street line, section lines or
other established point;
      (3)   Lines and boundaries. Centerlines and right-of-way lines of
streets, easements and other rights-of-way, natural and artificial water
courses, streams, shoreline corporation lines and property lines of all lots
and parcels with distances, radii, arcs, chords and tangents of all curves
(nearest one- hundredth of a foot), bearings or deflection angles (nearest
second);
      (4)   Street. Name and right-of-way width of each street within proposed
subdivision and those adjoining;
      (5)   Building setback lines accurately shown with dimensions;
      (6)   Lot and block identification. Lots shall be numbered in consecutive
order and when the subdivision is submitted in sections, lots shall be numbered
consecutively as each section is submitted whether or not the sections are
contiguous;
      (7)   Drainage statement:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1754.png]
 
      (8)   Land for public uses. Show boundaries and identify the use of all
parcels which are to be dedicated or reserved for public use of easements;
      (9)   Monuments. Location and description of those found, set or to be
set;
      (10)   Certification and seal of the registered surveyor to the effect
that the plat represents a survey made by him or her which balances and closes,
and that the monuments shown thereon exist or shall be set as shown, and that
all dimensional and geodetic details are correct;
      (11)   Any special restrictions relating to access control along public
ways or to the provisions of planting strips;
      (12)   Reference to deed restrictions, if any;
      (13)   Certification to the fact that “no part of the property covered by
this plat or subdivision is situated within 500 feet of any drainage or
watercourse serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more”; and
      (14)   The plat shall also contain an appropriate place for signatures of
providing bodies and shall be worded similar to the following example:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397753ec98aa013d590750ccd28cc24b25546930/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1756.png]
 
   (C)   Owner declaration and required certificates (to be typed in text of
legal documents accompanying the plat).
      (1)   The owners declaration shall include a statement of ownership,
description and name of subdivision, statements of dedications for public use,
statements prohibiting discrimination and statements to owner’s restrictions,
and may include, but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Land use and building type;
         (b)   Architectural control;
         (c)   Dwelling type, quality and size;
         (d)   Public utilities;
         (e)   Building location;
         (f)   Nuisances;
         (g)   Temporary structures;
         (h)   Signs;
         (i)   Livestock and poultry;
         (j)   Garbage and refuse disposal;
         (k)   Sod, dirt and rocks; and
         (l)   Family density of any multiple dwelling units.
      (2)   Said declaration shall be drawn up in a manner similar to that
shown in the example shown in §
154.025 of this chapter and shall be notarized upon submission.
      (3)   Surveyor’s certificate shall consist of a statement by the surveyor
as to the accuracy of the survey and shall be drawn up in a manner similar to
that shown in the example in §
154.025 of this chapter.
      (4)   Certification that no redeemable taxes are outstanding against the
real estate as shown in the example in §
154.025 of this chapter.
      (5)   Approval of the Chairperson of the Plan Commission of the village
and attested by the Secretary of same Commission.
      (6)   Approval of the President of the village and attested by the
Village Clerk.
(2007 Code, § 34-5-5)
§ 154.080 CERTIFIED SURVEY.
   A certified survey for a minor subdivision or replat shall be drawn in
accordance with village standards.
(2007 Code, § 34-5-6)
§ 154.081 SPECIAL SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   The preliminary and final plats for special subdivisions shall be
prepared similar to the major subdivision plat and shall include the additional
information shown in division (B) below.
(2007 Code, § 34-5-7)
   (B)   The preliminary and final plat for a special subdivision shall be
prepared similar to the major subdivision plat, except the following additional
information shall be shown on the plat:
      (1)   Location and scaled size of all non-single family dwellings;
(Mobile homes shall also be shown.)
      (2)   The breakdown as to building unit size and over-all density of
development (net amount per acre);
      (3)   All existing and proposed permanent open space and location of all
parking areas; and
      (4)   Location of all lots for non-residential uses and their parking.
(2007 Code, Ch. 34, Exhibit D)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.095 CONFORMITY TO PLANS.
   All subdivisions shall be designed to conform to all officially adopted
plans of the village.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-1)
§ 154.096 CONFORMITY TO NATURAL FEATURES.
   (A)   (1)   All subdivisions and all areas contained herein shall be so
planned to take advantage of the natural topography of the land so as to
economize the construction of streets and drainage systems; to reduce the
overall amount of grading and disruption of the topsoil and natural vegetation;
and to prevent disruption of surrounding drainage and natural environmental
conditions.
      (2)   The village reserves the authority to deny or require modification
of any subdivision or part thereof which, because of its natural
characteristics or position, cannot afford a reasonable pleasant, safe and
healthy location for residents or commercial activities.
   (B)   Some conditions which would make land unsuited for lotting or
development are as follows:
      (1)   Lands lying within, or at less than one vertical foot above the
maximum probable flood level, or where such levels are not available at least
two feet above the greatest flood of record. Filling of stream basins shall
only be allowed when it will have no impedance on natural flood flows and only
by special permit of the Village Board;
      (2)   Land areas with very severe limitations which include limitations
of high permanent water tables, swamps, highly organic soils and soils subject
to overflows, soils subject to extreme erosion and soils which in other ways
present hazards to construction;
      (3)   In subdivisions planned for development with individual septic
systems areas with soils having a high seasonal water table, slow or excessive
permeability and soils subject to excessive frost action;
      (4)   Lands lying on a general overall slope of 25% or more shall be
excluded from development. Lands lying on more than 12% slope shall not be used
for lots which must depend on septic systems for waste disposal; and
      (5)   Land proposed to be developed on dependent or individual water
systems which cannot show after reasonable investigations that ground water
adequate to meet the population needs of the subdivision supplies are not
approved.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-2)
§ 154.097 MODIFICATIONS FOR UNSUITABLE SITES.
   (A)   The village also reserves the right to deny platting or require
modifications such as increases in lot size, setback, street locations or the
dedication of open space easements or screening for land areas located adjacent
to facilities or activities which might effect the public health, safety or
general welfare for adjacent residential lots.
   (B)   The following list, which is by no means inclusive, represent some
conditions which might require such action by the village:
      (1)   Areas adjacent to heavy industry or rail facilities; and (This
might require separation by easement, increased setback from streets or
screening.)
      (2)   Lots along major highways. (This might require additional setbacks
or may require frontage roads.)
(2007 Code, § 34-6-3)
§ 154.098 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Across lots. Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot
lines shall be provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least ten
feet wide.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-13)
   (B)   Block to block. Easements shall be designed to provide continuity from
block to block.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-14)
   (C)   Drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainageway channel or stream, and adequate by the Plan Commission. The
location, width, alignment and improvement of such drainageway or easement
shall be subject to the approval of the Village Engineer; and parallel streets
or parkways may be required in connection therewith. Where necessary storm
water drainage shall be maintained by landscaped open channels of adequate size
and grade to hydraulically accommodate maximum potential volumes of flow. These
design details are subject to review and approval by the Village Engineer.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-15)
   (D)   Conservation easements. Conservation easements may be required to
protect natural areas of excessive slope or areas subject to flooding in order
to prevent erosion or changes of stream quality or flood characteristics.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-16)
§ 154.099 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Suitability of blocks. The widths, lengths and shapes of blocks shall
be suited to the planned use of the land; zoning requirements; need for
convenient access, control and safety of street traffic; and the limitations
and opportunities of topography.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-18)
   (B)   Commercial or industrial uses. Blocks or portions thereof intended for
commercial or industrial use shall be designated as such, and the plans shall
show adequate off-street areas to provide for parking, loading docks and other
such facilities.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-19)
§ 154.100 LOTS.
   (A)   Lot size. The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientations shall be
appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development
use contemplated.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-21)
   (B)   Conformity with zoning. Lot dimensions and areas shall as a minimum
conform to the requirements of Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances. However,
residential lots not served by public sanitary sewers and water supply shall be
not less than 100 feet wide at the building line and not less than 20,000
square feet in area. Where either community sanitary sewers and sewage
treatment or water supply is provided, a lot shall be not less than 80 feet
wide and not less than 11,200 square feet in area.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-22)
   (C)   Lots abutting water. Lots abutting a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream shall have a minimum width or depth as required to provide an
adequate building site and to afford the minimum usable area required in this
chapter or Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances for front, side and rear yards.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-24)
   (D)   Corner lots. All corner lots shall have a minimum width of 80 feet and
be substantially larger than a normal lot to allow minimum building setback
lines on both streets.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-25)
   (E)   Abutting a street. All lots shall abut on a publicly dedicated street.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-26)
   (F)   Double frontage. Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be
avoided, except where essential to provide separation of residential
development from highways or primary thoroughfares or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at
least ten feet, and across which there shall be no right of vehicular access,
shall be provided along the rear lot lines of lots abutting such highways and
major thoroughfares.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-27)
   (G)   Lots at right angles. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right
angles or radial to street lines.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-28)
§ 154.101 BUILDING SETBACK LINES.
   Building setback lines in residential areas of new subdivisions shall
conform to the front yard provisions of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances; except that, in no case shall the building
setback line be less than 25 feet from the front property line. The Plan
Commission may require greater setbacks where the Plan Commission deems it
necessary.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-30)
§ 154.102 PARKS, SCHOOLS AND PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   Land may be required. Whenever the reasonable requirement provided by
the comprehensive plan indicates the necessity for providing for a school site,
park site or other public lands within any proposed subdivision for which
approval has been requested, and no such provision has been made therefor, the
governing authorities may require that land be designated for such public
purpose before approving such plat. Whenever a final plat of subdivision, or
part thereof, has been approved by the governing authorities as complying with
the comprehensive plan and there is designated therein a school site, park site
or other public land, the governing authorities having jurisdiction of such
use, be it a school board, park board or other authority shall acquire the land
so designated by purchase or commence proceedings to acquire such land by
condemnation within one year from the date of approval of such plat; and, if it
does not do so within such period of one year, the land so designated may then
be used by the owners thereof in any other manner consistent with this chapter,
including the comprehensive plan and
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-31)
   (B)   Preservation of natural features. In subdividing any land within the
village or within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits, due regard
shall be shown for all natural features, such as, tree growth, watercourses,
historic spots or similar conditions which, if preserved, will add
attractiveness and value to the proposed development.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-32)
§ 154.103 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   All major drainage ways shall be designed as shown on the community
storm drainage plan.
   (B)   Where no drainage plan exists, drainage ways shall be designed as
follows.
      (1)   MAJOR WATERWAYS are defined as those with a tributary area in
excess of four square miles. Such major waterways shall be designed for an
average flood recurrence interval of 100 years.
      (2)   SECONDARY WATERWAYS are defined as those with a tributary area of
between one and four square miles. Such secondary waterways shall be designed
for an average flood recurrence interval of 25 years.
      (3)   (a)   MINOR WATERWAYS are defined as those with one square mile or
less of tributary area. Such minor waterways shall be designed for an average
flood recurrence interval of ten years.
         (b)   Design flows for secondary and minor drainage facilities shall
be computed by the subdivided engineer by use of the Rational formula:
               Q = CIA in the urban areas
            Wherein:   Q = cubic feet per second
                  C = run-off coefficient
                  I = intensity of rainfall, inches per hour
                  A = tributary area
         (c)   Drainage structures and their easements shall be adequate to
handle the flow from this formula.
      (4)   Drainage designs shall be accomplished for the subdivider by a
professional engineer, registered in the state. The drainage plan and design
shall bear the seal of professional engineer. The drainage plan will be subject
to review and the approval of the Village Engineer.
      (5)   Flows for the design of secondary and minor drainage facilities
within urban and suburban areas shall be calculated in accordance with the
state’s Department of Transportation Storm Water Design Manual, latest
revision.
      (6)   In the agricultural areas within the review area of the village,
but outside the urban area, runoff calculations shall be made using the most
appropriate method according to the current state of art of hydrology and
current engineering practice (i.e., Cook’s or Soil Conservation Service
methods).
(2007 Code, § 34-6-34)
STREET SYSTEM DESIGN
§ 154.115 STREET ARRANGEMENT.
   (A)   In any new subdivision, the street layout shall conform to the
arrangement width and location of streets as indicated on the village official
map, comprehensive plan or the neighborhood development plan which was drawn up
as part of the pre-application review.
   (B)   The overall plan in addition should conform to the following
standards.
      (1)   In general, not more than 20% of the total land area of the
subdivision should be in street right-of-way.
      (2)   The resulting street pattern should be properly related to
topography and other natural features for aesthetic and drainage reasons.
Further, the system should be so designed as to allow economic platting of the
best building sites possible.
      (3)   The overall plan should result in proper functional classification
of streets, with spacing of collector and major streets in accordance with
standards contained in this section.
      (4)   The street system should afford satisfactory access to a public
street to all building lots within the subdivision and provide the advantageous
street service up to all adjoining lands.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-5)
§ 154.116 STREET ALIGNMENT.
   (A)   Street alignment shall be so laid out so as to ensure public safety
and convenience for both vehicular and pedestrian travel.
   (B)   The following standard shall be followed in the alignment of streets.
      (1)   The number of intersections shall be kept to the absolute minimum
necessary to provide reasonable direct traffic flow. No more than two streets
shall converge at any one intersection. The intersection of streets shall be as
near 90% as possible, never less than 70%.
      (2)   Street jogs shall be discouraged and should never be permitted with
centerline offset of less than 150 feet.
      (3)   Reverse curves of major and collector streets shall not have
tangents of less than 100 feet.
      (4)   The number of access points shall be reduced as the functional
classification of the street increases and as travel volume and speed
increases.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-6)
§ 154.117 SPECIFIC STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The design of streets shall relate to their function classification,
surrounding development density and topography. Major streets shall be designed
in accordance with anticipated traffic flow and desired speed of movement, all
major widths and standards of construction shall be separately approved by the
Village Board after recommendation of the village’s Plan Commission and
Engineer. The design of the residential streets and collector streets should
conform to the standards of §
154.122 of this chapter and the general standards contained in this subchapter
related to such streets.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-7)
§ 154.118 LOCAL OR RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   Local streets shall be designed in accordance with §
154.122 of this chapter. The function of local streets is to provide direct
access to individual lots. The travel speed should be slow enough to minimize
hazards to children and entering traffic (less than 30 mph).
   (B)   The following standards shall relate to local streets.
      (1)   Local streets shall be so laid out that through traffic is
discouraged.
      (2)   Local streets should be kept as short as possible and connect as
directly as possible into a collector street.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-8)
§ 154.119 COLLECTOR STREETS.
   (A)   Collector streets shall be designed and laid out in accordance to §
154.122 of this chapter. The function of collector streets is to collect local
traffic and move it conveniently and directly to the nearest major streets or
neighborhood facilities (schools, churches, shopping and the like). The access
to a collector street should be limited to local streets. The design travel
speed for collector streets shall be between 30 to 40 mph.
   (B)   The specific requirements are as follows.
      (1)   Collectors should be spaced approximately one-fourth a mile apart.
      (2)   Residential driveways generally should not be allowed to enter
directly onto collector streets.
      (3)   Collector streets shall be provided with ten-foot crosswalks at
reasonable intervals.
      (4)   Setback on all collector streets shall be increased over minimum
zoning district setbacks in relation to the traffic volume anticipated.
      (5)   Four-foot sidewalks shall be required at least on one side of urban
collector streets, and where required by the corporate authority may be
required on both sides.
      (6)   Where parking and driveway entrances are necessary along collector
streets the pavement width shall not be less than 40 feet. Where no lots face
collector streets, the pavement width may be reduced to 36 feet or less,
depending on the density of adjoining development.
      (7)   Access controls may be required on highly traveled collectors.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-9)
§ 154.120 MAJOR STREETS.
   (A)   Major streets shall be designed in accordance to standards established
at time of platting. All major streets shall be not less than 80-foot rights-
of-way, nor less than 48-foot pavement. Additional width of parkways shall be
required adjacent to residential areas and on major entryways to the village.
The pavement shall be concrete. Sidewalks and curbs shall be provided on all
major streets within one mile of the village. All the standards shall apply to
major streets unless waived by the village’s Plan Commission and Village Board.
   (B)   The access to major streets shall be strictly controlled. No single-
family residential drive shall enter directly into a major street.
   (C)   Streets entering major streets shall be limited to one-fourth mile
intervals.
   (D)   Major streets shall be spaced at one-mile intervals within the built
up urban area.
   (E)   (1)   Provisions shall be made for vehicular and pedestrian access to
residential property abutting major streets either by provisions: marginal
access streets or by backing lots to the major street and providing access by a
collector, minor or cul-de-sac street one lot depth removed and with a visual
barrier established in a non-access reservation strip along the rear property
line (abutting the major street).
      (2)   These standards are established for the purpose of providing
protection to residential properties and to separate through and local traffic.
The specific method used shall be determined by the village’s Plan Commission
in the pre-application review.
   (F)   All major streets shall have constructed with access control rights
granted to the village and in commercial areas joint frontage road or shared
access points may be required.
   (G)   All new subdivisions along limited access collector and limited access
major streets shall be arranged to provide access to such highways at intervals
not less than one-fourth-mile intervals, except where impractical or impossible
due to existing property divisions or topography. There shall be no other
access to a limited access major street or a limited access collector street,
except as noted above. Also, roads and streets within such subdivision shall be
arranged to permit access to adjacent future subdivisions without encroachment
upon this regulation.
   (H)   Commercial and industrial subdivisions along major streets shall be
responsible for special traffic improvements to adjacent major streets. Such
improvement shall be as required by the Village Board after recommendations by
the Village Engineer.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-10)
§ 154.121 OTHER STREET REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   At times, special roadway types, such as scenic drives, industrial
roads, freeways, half-streets, marginal access and frontage roads, may be
necessary.
   (B)   The following requirements govern such situations.
      (1)   Freeways. Whenever a freeway, railroad track or expressway passes
through or adjacent to a proposed subdivision, the Plat Officer may require a
street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way, at a
distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park
purposes in residential districts, or for commercial or industrial purposes in
appropriate districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due regard
for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
      (2)   Marginal access road. Marginal access roads should have 24-foot
widths with sidewalks on the development side and curb and gutter where deemed
necessary.
      (3)   Cul-de-sac streets. Cul-de-sac streets designed to have one end
permanently closed shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length. All cul-de-sac
streets designed to have one end permanently closed shall terminate in a
circular turn-around having a minimum outside curb radius of 40 feet.
      (4)   Half streets. In general, half streets should be avoided, but where
they are essential a minimum pavement surface of 20 feet in width shall be
constructed with both curb and sidewalk on the development side.
      (5)   Reserve strips. Reserve (“spite” or “devil”) strips controlling
access to streets shall not be permitted. Streets roughly paralleling the
subdivision boundary shall be located not less than one lot depth from said
boundary. All streets intended to provide the subdivision with future means of
ingress and egress shall extend to the subdivision boundary.
      (6)   Streets in floodplains. Elevations of collector or major streets
passing through flood areas shall be at least two feet above the 100-year
recurrence interval flood local and shall be designed to have minimum adverse
effect upon flood flows or velocities. All local streets, other than parkways,
shall be two feet above the 50-year flood level.
      (7)   Private roads prohibited. Private roads and streets shall be
permitted only when the subdivider submits sufficient evidence to the Committee
that there can be no public interest in such private road or street.
      (8)   Alleys and pedestrian ways.
         (a)   Alleys shall be at least 16 feet wide, where permitted, in
residential areas. Alleys at least 22 feet wide shall be provided in commercial
areas unless such areas are otherwise provided with off-street loading space.
         (b)   Pedestrian ways shall be at least 12 feet wide, where permitted,
and a four-foot chain-link fence with a top rail shall be installed at side
boundary lines to within 12 feet of street or alley lines.
         (c)   Dead end alleys shall not be allowed.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-11)
§ 154.122 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
Street Design Standards Urban
Classification Collector Local Cul-de-Sac Countryside
                                          1 2 3
Street Design Standards Urban
Classification                         Collector Local Cul-de-Sac Countryside
                                                                  1  2  3
1. Right-of-way (ft.)                  70        60    60         60 60 80
2. Pavement width (ft.)                44        28    28         24 22 36
3. Minimum setback                     35        25               30
4. Type of curb                        V         V
5. Sidewalk width (ft.)                2S/4      2S/4  2S/4
6. Minimum sight distance (ft.)        250       200   200
7. Minimum grade                       0.5       0.5   0.35
8. Maximum grade                       7-9%      7-9%  7-9%
9. Desired spacing along major traffic 1,300
route (ft.)
10. Minimum centerline radius (ft.)    350       175   175
11. Maximum cul-de-sac length                          500        500
12. Turnaround radius, cul-de-sac                      44         50
 
(2007 Code, Ch. 34, Table VI-I)
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
§ 154.135 APPLICATION.
   A combination of storage and controlled release of storm water run-off shall
be required to be constructed and maintained in the following:
   (A)   All residential subdivision development within the corporate limits or
subject to the provisions of the subdivision ordinance of the village,
excepting minor subdivisions, as defined therein;
   (B)   Commercial, business or office and research development; and
   (C)   Any planned unit development.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-36)
§ 154.136 DRAINAGE PLAN DRAWINGS.
   (A)   A drainage plan shall be filed with the preliminary plat for
residential subdivisions and planned unit developments and shall be filed and
approved prior to the issuance of a building permit for commercial, business,
office and research developments.
   (B)   The drainage plan shall include engineering drawings and supporting
calculations, which describe existing storm water drainage systems and
environmental features, as well as the drainage system and the environmental
improvements which are proposed before development of the property.
   (C)   The drainage plan shall contain the following:
      (1)   Topographic survey of the property at two-foot contours or spot
elevations that adequately define drainage;
      (2)   Banks and centerline of streams and channels;
      (3)   Shoreline of lakes, ponds and detention basins;
      (4)   Farm drain and tiles;
      (5)   Sub-watershed boundaries within the property;
      (6)   Property’s location within larger watershed;
      (7)   Location, size and slope of storm water conduits and drainage of
water;
      (8)   Sanitary sewers;
      (9)   Delineation of upstream and downstream drainage features and
watersheds which might be affected by the development;
      (10)   Retention/detention facilities;
      (11)   Roads, streets, inlets and storm sewers;
      (12)   Site plan with lots, public improvements, drainage easements and
building outlines;
      (13)   Base flood elevation and regulatory floodway where identified for
the property;
      (14)   Drainage certificate signed by a professional engineer and owner;
and
      (15)   Preparation of storm water management plan. All computations,
plans and specifications related to the implementation of this plan shall be
prepared and sealed by a professional engineer registered with the state.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-37)
§ 154.137 MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE RUN-OFF.
   Maximum allowable run-off shall be limited to:
   (A)   One cfs/acre (one cubic foot per second per acre) for development on
unimproved sites of two acres or less;
   (B)   Limited to the flow that would occur during a five-year storm under
existing conditions for any undeveloped sites larger than two acres;
   (C)   For developed sites undergoing redevelopment or expansion:
      (1)   If 30% or more of the impervious area is increased or modified,
detention must be provided for the entire site and outflow is not to exceed
what would occur for a five-year storm under existing conditions. For example,
if more than 30% of an area that will not absorb storm water such as a parking
lot or roof area is increased, then a water detention facility must be provided
for the entire site to control and detain the storm water outflowed so that it
will not exceed that of a five-year storm; and
      (2)   If less than 30% of the site is affected, then detention shall be
provided for only the area that is developed or modified.
   (D)   Limited to such flows that will not cause damage or exceed the
capacity of any downstream drainage facilities within the village.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-38)
§ 154.138 COLLECTION OF FLOWS.
   All flows shall be collected on-site by a lateral storm sewer system
provided by the developer and shall be a minimum 12-inch diameter pipe where
access to a storm sewer is available.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-39)
§ 154.139 DESIGN FORMULA.
   Unless otherwise approved by the Village Trustees, the Modified Rational
Method shall be used for the run-off analysis.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-4)
§ 154.140 MINIMUM DETENTION OUTLET SIZE.
   Where a single pipe outlet or orifice plate is to be used to control
discharge, it shall have a minimum diameter of six inches. If the minimum size
permits release rates greater than those specified, alternative outlet designs
shall be utilized which incorporate self-cleaning flow restrictors.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-41)
§ 154.141 DETENTION STORAGE REQUIREMENT.
   The design maximum storage to be provided in a detention basin shall be
based on the run-off from a 100-year storm detention storage shall be computed
using the Modified Rational Method, as outlined in Ch. 12 of the state’s
Division of Highway Standards Drainage Manual.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-42)
§ 154.142 DETENTION POND DESIGN CRITERIA.
   A detention pond shall be defined as an area designated to store excess run-
off temporarily with no permanent pool and shall incorporate the following
design criteria:
   (A)   A minimum 2% bottom slope or implementation of a low flow system or
underdrain;
   (B)   A low flow bypass system wherever feasible;
   (C)   Be located at least one foot from the property line;
   (D)   Have three to one (3:1) or flatter side slopes;
   (E)   Provide a minimum of two feet of freeboard or 50% of the maximum pond
depth, whichever is less;
   (F)   Energy dissipation and/or erosion control for areas where velocities
meet or exceed six feet per second;
   (G)   Emergency overflow designed to pass the peak inflow which would occur
in a 100-year storm;
   (H)   Landscaping and multiple use shall be considered in all pond designs;
   (I)   Subdivision detention ponds shall be incorporated into multiple
properties to encourage maintenance or shall incorporate recreational use and
be the responsibility of the home owner’s association;
   (J)   Provisions shall be provided to allow ease of clearing outlet
structures;
   (K)   Flows from ponds shall be deposited directly into an approved storm
sewer system where available; and
   (L)   Facilities adjacent to a state highway may design for all flows
entering the highway system on IDOT standards for storm water run-off.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-43)
§ 154.143 RETENTION POND DESIGN CRITERIA.
   A retention pond shall be defined as a permanent pool with sufficient
capacity to store excess run-off and shall incorporate the following design
criteria:
   (A)   Shall be designed so that a significant flush occurs in a five-year
storm;
   (B)   Approaching slopes are a maximum five to one (5:1) or flatter;
   (C)   The pond shall have a shelf area along the sides, a minimum of three
feet in width and a depth of no more than one foot before the pond pool area;
   (D)   The pond area shall be a minimum of three feet in depth;
   (E)   A two-stage weir shall be incorporated. First stage to allow flushing
of the pond and second stage to limit the outflow for detention. Pond size
shall be designed so that a significant flush occurs in a five-year storm;
   (F)   The pond shall incorporate an emergency overflow able to pass the
inflow that would occur in a 100-year storm;
   (G)   The pond shall be designed so that as much flow as possible shall
enter the pond through grass swales or sheet flow across grass areas;
   (H)   Developer shall submit a maintenance plan for sediment removal and
water quality control; and
   (I)   A structure capable of dewatering the pond within 48 hours shall be
incorporated into the pond design.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-44)
§ 154.144 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Commercial development. Maintenance of all structures, conduits and
pooling areas required to convey flow or provide detention for the development
shall be the maintenance responsibility of the owner to its connection to a
village-owned system or its release onto right-of-way. A signed drainage
covenant as provided by the village shall be provided prior to site plan
approval.
   (B)   Residential development.
      (1)   Pond area shall be a part of buildable lots and shall be maintained
by adjacent residents. All conduits and structures shall be placed in easements
and shall be the responsibility of the village.
      (2)   Pond areas not incorporated into buildable lots shall be designated
as a recreation area and shall be the responsibility of a home owner’s
association. Proof of home owner’s association requirements and
responsibilities shall be submitted with preliminary plat.
      (3)   Regional detention retention basins not incorporated into buildable
lots and owned by the village shall be designated a public recreation area and
shall be the responsibility of the village.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-45)
§ 154.145 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DETENTION POND. See §
154.142 of this chapter.
   DRY BOTTOM RESERVOIR. An earthen detention basis constructed so that it
drains completely after the rain storm and associated flows subside.
   EXCESS STORM WATER RUN-OFF. The portion of storm water run-off resulting
from the proposed land use and which exceeds the run-off from the existing land
use for a storm with a five-year average recurrence interval.
   FIVE-YEAR RAINFALL. A precipitation event have a 20% chance of occurring in
any one calendar year.
   FLOODPLAIN. The land area susceptible to being inundated temporarily by
flood water from an adjacent watercourse.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse that must be reserved
for passage of the base flood.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. This would be an area that will not absorb water in a
developed site such as a parking lot, driveway, roof area, sidewalk and the
like.
   PARKING LOT DETENTION. The parking lots may be utilized for storm water
detention with the following restrictions.
      (1)   There should be no more than seven inches of water depth in remote
areas of the parking lot or four inches in heavy traffic areas under design
storm conditions.
      (2)   The parking lot may not violate appropriate provisions of other
ordinances governing their design and operation.
   PROTECTED CHANNEL. A channel which receives storm water discharge and is
constructed of pavement, rip-rap or human-made materials to reduce the
potential for erosion.
   RESERVOIR. The place where water is collected and kept in quantity for use
or for later release for a beneficial purpose.
   RETENTION POND. See §
154.143 of this chapter.
   STORM WATER CHANNEL. A natural or human-made open watercourse with definite
bed and banks which periodically or continuously contains moving water, or
forms a connecting link between two bodies of water.
   STORM WATER RUN-OFF. The fraction of the water resulting from precipitation
which flows from the served land during and immediately after the rainfall.
   STORM WATER RUN-OFF RELEASE RATE. The rate at which storm water run-off is
released from dominant to servient land or, in the case of detention, the
discharge rate from the detention facility.
(2007 Code, § 34-6-46)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.160 GENERAL.
   (A)   Upon approval of the preliminary plan and the engineer’s plans and
specifications, the subdivider shall construct and install the required
subdivision improvements prior to filing with the Plat Officer the final plat
for final approval.
   (B)   All subdivision improvements within the plat jurisdiction of the
village shall be designed, furnished and installed by the subdivider at his or
her own expense in accordance with the provision of this subchapter and other
applicable village, county and state regulations. All improvements shall be
subject to inspection and approval of the village’s Building Inspector or a
qualified engineer appointed by the village.
   (C)   In lieu of construction, the subdivider may post with the village a
cashier’s check, negotiable securities, or a surety bond payable to the village
sufficient to cover the full cost of the said improvements as estimated by a
registered professional engineer and approved by the Plat Officer, to assure
the satisfactory installation of said improvements. (See §§
154.185 through
154.189 of this chapter.)
   (D)   The developer is responsible for all required improvements until
released by inspection and approval one year after completion and construction.
A construction guarantee of 10% of the cost of the improvements shall be
retained by the Plat Officer during this time.
   (E)   All construction must be completed within two years. Construction of
all improvements required by this chapter must be completed within two years
from the date of the approval of the preliminary plan by the Village Board
unless good cause can be shown for granting an extension of time.
   (F)   (1)   All public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions
of this chapter shall be inspected during the course of construction by the
Village Engineer or a duly designated deputy.
      (2)   During the course of construction of the improvements, the
subdivider shall be required to notify the Village Engineer 48 hours before
each of the following operations in order that the Engineer or a duly
designated deputy may make required inspections:
         (a)   Before base material is deposited in place for inspection of all
street subgrades, monumentation and grading;
         (b)   Before paving is placed on the base material, for inspection of
the base construction; and
         (c)   Before any backfilling operations whatsoever following the
installation of water, sanitary or storm sewers or any other underground public
improvements.
      (3)   All dedications must be accepted by the village. Final acceptance
of the dedication of streets, utilities, open space or other public area shall
be the responsibility of the Village Board, and shall only be done by
resolution at the regular meeting of the Village Board. However, such action
should only take place after receiving the report of the Village Engineer and
Inspector.
(2007 Code, § 34-7-1)
Required Street Type Pavement Type Pavement
                                   Subbase Base Pavement Width Comment
Required    Pavement Type Pavement
Street Type               Subbase        Base           Pavement Width Comment
            Portland                     7" non-
            enforced      3" of sand     reinforced     36-40'          
            concrete
Collector                 10" crushed
street      Class I       stone asphalt  2-1/2" Class I 36-40'          
            asphalt       of grade 7 or
                          8
            Class I       6" BAM         5" Class I     36-40'          
            asphalt
                                         *6" P.C.C.
            Portland      2" of sand* or (required only 22-36'          
Countryside cement        light gravel   over silt clay
non-                                     soils)
reinforced                8" compacted
residential Class I       base of grade  2" B-5 surface 22-36'          
pavement    asphalt       7 or 8 crushed
(rural)                   stone
            Class I       3" compacted   5" bit. aggre.
            asphalt or    crushed stone  (BAM) base 1-  22-36'          
            equivalent    grade 7 or 8   1/2 surface
                                         *6" non-
            Portland      2" of sand* or reinforced                    P.C.C.
            cement        light gravel   (required only 22-36'         pavement
                                         over silt clay
                                         soils)
                          8" compacted
Local-                    base or
residential Class I       asphalt grade  2" Class I     22-36'          
                          7 or 8 crushed
                          stone
                                         2" Class I
            Class I       5" bit. aggre. (BAM) base     22-36'          
                          asphalt        surface or
                                         equivalent
                          3" of sand* or 8" non-
Major                     light gravel   reinforced     44" and
arterial    Portland      (required only P.C.C.         greater         
                          over silt clay pavement
                          soils)
(Asphalt surface not allowed in new construction for major streets or business
and industrial streets, except by special permission of the Village Board.)
 
(2007 Code, Ch. 34, Table VII-I)
§ 154.161 GRADING AND MONUMENTATION.
   (A)   Grading - general.
      (1)   Any action causing the removal of major trees, filling of any area
with more than three feet of fill material, cutting the soil or cover material
from any area by more than two feet, the alteration of any natural watercourse
or major drainageway, shall be considered grading and shall only be allowed
when shown and approved in conformance with a preliminary grading plan.
      (2)   All grading should be kept to the minimum necessary to provide the
proper relationships between lots, blocks, streets, utilities and storm
drainage systems. All such grading shall be shown on the grading plan. Where it
is necessary to fill to a depth of five feet or more, said fill shall be laid
in layers of six inches or less, adequately watered and compacted, and then
subsequent layers of six inches added in a similar manner until the desired
grade is reached.
      (3)   Where areas other than roadways must be cut or filled, topsoil
should either be skimmed off before grading and uniformly replaced or new
topsoil of a quality acceptable to the Building Inspector must be added after
the grading at average, uniform depth of not less than four inches.
      (4)   Where areas are not to be graded and are in excess of 15% slope,
the village’s Plan Commission may require riprapping, planting or other methods
of slope stabilization. In some cases, the dedication of natural easement
covering such areas may be required.
   (B)   Block and lot grading.
      (1)   The finished grade of all subdivided blocks should be such that
water run-off will flow freely from the block to streets, storm inlets, natural
watercourses and drainage swales, and drain from the subdivision without
causing erosion, flood damage, ponding or similar problems. Where the natural
grade will not permit such flow, additional grading must be provided.
      (2)   All individual lots should be of such elevation and grade that
storm water and sanitary waste will freely leave the site without causing
erosion or flooding problems. All sites should therefore be at a reasonable
level above streets, drainage and sanitary waste collection.
   (C)   Trees and grading. As many trees as can be reasonably utilized in the
final development plan shall be retained and the grading adjusted where
practical to the existing grades at the trees.
   (D)   Street grading. All streets shall be uniformly graded in accordance
with the typical cross-section shown in the engineering specifications of the
preliminary plan. All trees and brush shall be removed and the roadways shall
be graded to the sub-soil level.
   (E)   Monumentation. Reference monuments shall be installed within all
subdivisions as follows.
      (1)   The perimeter of all subdivisions shall have permanent monuments of
concrete reinforced within one #4 vertical rod, and not less than four inches
square or in diameter at the top and tapered to six inches at the bottom and 36
inches long, set flush with the adjacent ground. Each permanent monument shall
have a suitable mark in the center of the top. Sufficient permanent concrete
monuments shall be erected to reestablish the property lines of the
subdivision.
      (2)   Monuments shall consist of five-eighths-inch iron pins not less
than 24 inches in length driven into the ground.
      (3)   All lot corners shall be marked by one-half-inch iron pins not less
than 24 inches in length driven into the ground similar to those monuments
described in division (E)(2) above.
   (F)   Grading and monument inspection. No sidewalk, utility or street
pavement shall be constructed within any subdivision or addition thereof until
the grading and monumentation of said subdivision has been inspected.
(2007 Code, § 34-7-2)
§ 154.162 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   Each street shall be graded, drained, constructed and surfaced in
conformance with the standards contained in §
154.160 of this chapter; modification may be required, however, because of
soil, topographical and other natural conditions. All street improvements shall
be appropriate to the type of development anticipated and durable under use and
maintenance contemplated for such streets. All street bases and sub-bases shall
be inspected before the paving surface is applied.
(2007 Code, § 34-7-3)
§ 154.163 SIDEWALKS.
   Portland cement concrete sidewalks shall be installed as required in §
154.102 of this chapter and in areas around and leading to schools, parks and
shopping areas. Sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide in residential areas
and five feet four inches wide in business areas. All sidewalks shall be
constructed of concrete four inches thick with thickness increased to five and
one-half inches where sidewalks are crossed by driveways and areas of
unfavorable soil. A sand or gravel base at least two inches thick may be
required.
(2007 Code, § 34-7-4)
§ 154.164 CURBS.
   (A)   Concrete curbing or combined curb and gutter shall be constructed on
each side of all street pavements except where waived by the Village Board.
   (B)   Curbing on local light traffic residential streets shall consist of
portland cement concrete and may be either plain concrete curb, eight inches in
thickness and 24 inches in depth, or combination curb and gutter consisting of
IDOT standard B6.12 - B6.18 or B6.24.
   (C)   Curbing on business streets or major thoroughfares shall be not less
than five inches in height above gutter grade and shall be of a type and
section adopted as standard for the village, or such variation thereof as may
be approved by the Village Engineer.
(2007 Code, § 34-7-5)
§ 154.165 PARKWAY VEGETATION.
   All parkways within the dedicated street area shall be graded and seeded in
an approved manner, and care should be taken to prevent damage to water and gas
shut-off valves, and the owner shall be held responsible for any damage which
is incurred.
(2007 Code, § 34-7-6)
§ 154.166 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Whenever practical, telephone and electric utilities shall be underground.
When utility lines for telephone and electric service must be carried on
overhead poles, such utilities shall be placed in rear lot line easements or
designated side lot line easements. Where telephone, electric and gas service
lines are placed underground entirely throughout a subdivision area, conduits
or cables shall be placed within easements or dedicated public ways in a manner
which will not conflict with other underground services. Further, all
transformer boxes shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to
the public. All underground utility installations which traverse privately-
owned property shall be located in recorded easements.
(2007 Code, § 34-7-7)
§ 154.167 STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   The subdivider shall design and construct a storm drainage system
adequate to handle maximum potential flows of water drainage from the
subdivision or passing through the subdivision without causing hazard for life
or property within the subdivision or surrounding land areas. All storm systems
shall be designed and constructed according to the preliminary plat and shall
consider the appropriate streets, storm sewers, roadway ditches, grassed
swales, natural watercourses, catch basins and inlets, as may be required. All
such facilities should be complimentary in design and construction. In general,
all areas shall be required to install storm sewers.
   (B)   Whenever practical, natural open drainage ways shall be utilized as
part of the subdivision storm drainage system. Whenever a natural stream or
other human-made important surface drainage course or agricultural drainage
tiles are located within a subdivision, the subdivider shall dedicate an
adequate easement along each side of the stream or tile for purposes of
widening, deepening, sloping, improving or protecting the stream or tile for
drainage or flood water retention.
   (C)   The filling, alteration, widening or any other restriction or
alteration of a natural stream and flood basin shall be permitted only as shown
and approved on the preliminary plat. In areas where stream slopes exceed 12%,
such slopes shall either be graded, stabilized by rip-rapping or some sort of
planting or shall be dedicated as a natural easement.
   (D)   Where roadway ditches or swales are permitted, such ditches or swales
shall be contained within easements at least ten feet wide and the drainage
shall be improved as follows.
      (1)   With grades to 4%, ditches may have sod bottoms and banks.
      (2)   With grades from 4% to 8%, ditches or swales must have ditch
checks.
      (3)   With greater than 8% grades, ditches or swales must have rip-rap or
be paved.
      (4)   The filling, alteration, widening or any other restriction or
alteration of a roadway ditch or swale shall not be permitted without prior
written approval of the Village Board.
      (5)   No shrubbery, fence or other such structure shall be planted or
constructed in or over any drainage ditch or swale in such a manner which would
impede the flow of water and storm runoff through these ditches and swales.
   (E)   (1)   Culverts. When allowed, pipe culverts may be used. The minimum
length of culverts shall be at least equal to the distance from edge of
shoulder to edge of shoulder, plus six times the vertical distance from the
edge of should to the flow line of the culvert. No culvert shall have a
diameter of less than 12 inches. In no case shall driveway culverts be less
than 20 feet in length.
      (2)   Bridges. All bridges and culverts having a span of more than ten
feet shall be approved by the Bridge Engineer, Department of Public Works and
Buildings, Division of Highway of the state.
      (3)   Storm sewers. The sewer system shall be designed by the Rational
Method, with self- cleaning velocities as follows. (See §
154.103 of this chapter.)
         (a)   The part of the system which serves as main or terminal
collectors shall be of sufficient capacity to carry the maximum storm water
flows which may occur in a ten-year period.
         (b)   That part of the system which serves as lateral collectors, and
which can readily be augmented by future additions, shall be of sufficient
capacity to carry maximum storm water flows which may occur in a five-year
period.
         (c)   The engineer shall select coefficients of run-off based on the
types of development anticipated in all parts of the watershed affecting the
drainage structure. Information regarding future development of the watershed
shall be obtained from the Planning Director.
         (d)   The system shall include all necessary appurtenances such as
inlets, catch basins and manholes as may be required for proper operation and
maintenance. The sizing of such structures and spacing should provide that
encroachment into the street not exceed eight feet from the back curb, and that
the head on top of the grate be no higher than the top of the curb or six
inches, whichever is the least dimension.
         (e)   Where the main storm sewer serving a subdivision can be expected
to carry a substantial amount of storm water from adjoining lands higher in the
drainage area, and where the run- off from these lands can be expected to
increase in the future because of more intense development, the developer may
be permitted to substitute for such sewer an open ditch. Such ditch shall
comply with grading, seeding and sodding specifications of this chapter, and
such ditch shall be located on a drainage easement of sufficient width to
permit its proper maintenance and to allow the eventual construction of an
underground storm sewer adequate to serve the entire drainage area above the
subdivision.
         (f)   All storm sewers shall be at least 12 inches in diameter and
shall be of material and construction approved by the Village Engineer.
         (g)   All materials for the construction of bridges, culverts, storm
sewers, catch basins, manholes, inlets and other facilities shall be approved
by the Village Engineer.
      (4)   Over-sized storm sewers. If greater than 24-inch diameter sewers
are required to handle the contemplated flows, the cost of such larger sewers
shall be shared between the developer and the village. The developer shall be
responsible for the cost of furnishing and installing a sewer of an appropriate
size for his or her development, and the village will be responsible for the
incremental increase in cost to install the larger sewer.
      (5)   Underdrain system for sump pump discharge. Whenever natural
topography does not allow the flow of ground water from individual sump pumps
to be directly discharged into a natural watercourse, the developer shall
provide an underdrain system at curb side to provide an outlet for the
discharges. The drain system shall consist of a six-inch rigid PVC pipe,
constructed in a trench immediately behind the curb. The pipe shall be laid to
a minimum depth of three feet, six inches from top of pipe of top of curb. The
trench shall be backfilled with aggregate to the bottom of the curb. Pipe and
aggregate backfill shall be in accordance with the applicable provision of §
607 of the Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, State of
Illinois. Each lot will be provided with a two- inch riser pipe for future
connection of a sump pump discharge line. Each riser’s location shall be duly
noted on record drawings provided by the developer.
(2007 Code, § 34-7-8)
§ 154.168 DAMS AND IMPOUNDMENT STRUCTURES.
   Dams for water impoundments, pools, ponds, reservoirs and small lakes shall
be planned, designed and constructed under the supervision of a qualified
engineer and shall meet the approval of the Department of Conservation of the
state.
   (A)   Earth dams. Minimum requirements for earth dams shall be as follows.
      (1)   Foundations. A minimum thickness of at least 24 inches of an
impervious material is required for dams up to 12 feet. The entire area in
which the dam is to be founded shall be free from all top soil, roots,
vegetation, stones, rock or debris, and shall be plowed and roughed up to
provide an interlocking tight bond with the new fill.
      (2)   Cores. Cores should have a width of 30% to 50% of the water head
and shall be constructed of materials which will not lead to core failure and
leaks.
      (3)   Crest. The crest shall be at least ten feet wide to allow adequate
space for maintenance equipment and shall have sufficient height above the
water surface (freeboard) to prevent waves from going over it.
      (4)   Slopes. The upstream slope shall not be steeper than three feet
horizontal to one foot vertical and shall be sufficiently protected from ice
and wave action by an impervious earth blanket, riprap or concrete. The
downstream slope shall not be steeper than two feet horizontal to one foot
vertical and shall be protected against erosion by a growth of permanent sod.
      (5)   Drainage. Sufficient drainage and “reverse filtering” facilities to
insure the permanent stability of the dam and its foundation shall be provided.
Proper precautions shall be taken to prevent any seepage along drain pipes
running through the dam.
      (6)   Spillways. Facilities for handling the maximum normal surplus
waters shall be provided, together with a sodded relief spillway constructed 18
inches above the normal water level. Proper precautions shall be taken to
prevent seepage along any of the spillways facilities constructed within the
dam.
      (7)   Materials. All materials, equipment and construction methods shall
conform to the requirements of the American Association of State Highway
Officials Specifications for Highway Bridges and the Standard Specifications.
      (8)   Test and analysis. Results of the following tests and analysis
shall accompany all plans for dams:
         (a)   Tests of the foundation material showing compressibility, shear
strength and permeability;
         (b)   A complete stability analysis of the proposed dam using any of
the available analysis techniques; and
         (c)   Permeability tests of the proposed core materials.
   (B)   Masonry dams. Minimum requirements for masonry dams shall include
provisions to insure proper foundation bearing and for the prevention of
slippage, excessive seepage, “piping” and scouring. The structure shall be
designed by a registered structural engineer. The design and construction
requirements shall conform to the American Association of State Highway
Officials Specifications for Highway Bridges and the Standard Specifications.
   (C)   Existing dams.
      (1)   An engineering report shall be submitted to the Plat Officer on all
existing dams within a proposed subdivision.
      (2)   Any dam found to be structurally unsafe shall be reconstructed or
reinforced in accordance with the above standard.
(2007 Code, § 34-7-9)
§ 154.169 PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Any and all public water systems installed within the legal
jurisdiction of the village shall be constructed in accordance with the
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois,
latest edition.
   (B)   The standard specification shall be superseded by the specifications
provided herein.
      (1)   Water mains.
         (a)   Scope.
            1.   The work covered by this section consists of furnishing all
plant, labor, equipment, tools, services and materials, and performing all
operations required to execute the water main work complete, in strict
accordance with this specification and the applicable drawings and subject to
the terms and conditions of the contract; and
            2.   Construct all water main work of sizes and materials, and at
locations shown on the drawings; provide fittings and appurtenances, all as
indicated on the drawings, and as herein specified.
         (b)   Materials.
            1.   Unless otherwise noted on the drawings, all water main of
ductile iron pipe shall have a cement-mortar lining conforming to ANSI A21.4
(AWWAC104).
               a.   Ductile iron pipe shall be designed in accordance with ANSI
A21.50 (AWWA C150 - Latest Revision) using 60,000 psi tensile strength, 42,000
psi yield strength and 10% elongation. All pipe shall have a minimum gas pipe
as shown below, three and one-half feet to six feet cover, trench condition
one, flat bottom, no blocks on tamped backfill and at least 100 psi water
hammer allowance and two to one (2:1) factor of safely. In no case shall the
wall thickness be less than the following: nominal pipe diameter inches
pressure class.
               b.   Ductile iron pipe for aerial installations shall have
flanged joints unless otherwise shown on the plans. Barrels of ductile iron
pipe with screwed flanges shall conform to ANSI A21.51 (AWWA C151). Flanges
shall be faced and drilled to ANSI Class 125 standard template for use with
either ANSI A21.10 (AWWA C110) or B16.1 flanged fittings. Gaskets for flanged
pipe shall be one-sixteenth inch thick, full faced, rubber or neoprene. Bolts
for flanged joints shall be of galvanized steel.
            2.   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe.
               a.   Pipe shall conform to AWWA C900, Standard Dimension Ratio
(SDR) 18, Laying Condition Class C.
               b.   A #12 TW tracer wire shall be laid with all PVC pipe detail
on plans and as directed by the Engineer. The main tracer shall be continuous
throughout. At each fire hydrant and house service, a #12 TW service wire shall
be connected to the main tracer and to the fire hydrant or house service.
               c.   The connection at the main tracer shall be with a 3M #562
(yellow) plastic self stripping pigtail connector. At the hydrant shoe or house
service tapping saddle, the connection may be done with a brass pipe, or
grounding, clamp with brass screws, or similar devise approved by the Engineer.
               d.   All connections shall be taped and sealed with electrical
mastic 4-12 350 and Scotch #22 10 E-2 seal.
         (c)   Fittings. Fittings for ductile iron and PVC water main shall be
of class or pressure rating not less than that of the connecting pipe and shall
conform to the latest revision of the following specifications:
            1.   ANSI A21.10 (AWA C153) gray iron and ductile iron fittings,
three-inch through 48-inch;
            2.   ANSI A21.11 (AWA C11) rubber gasket joints for cast iron and
ductile iron pressure pipe and fittings; and
            3.   All fittings shall be cement mortar lined in accordance with
ANSI A21.4 (AWA C104).
         (d)   Joints and couplings. Joints for ductile iron pipe shall be
either the mechanical or push- on type conforming to the following
requirements.
            1.   Mechanical joints shall be of the stuffing box type with
gasket, cast iron gland and cast iron bolts and shall conform to ANSI A21.11
(AWA C11).
            2.   Push-on joints shall be of a type employing a single molded
rubber gasket to effect joint seal. Joint and gasket shall conform to ANSI
A21.11 (AWA C11).
            3.   Couplings for PVC plastic pipe shall be of the elastomeric-
gasket type and shall conform to ASTMD3139.
         (e)   Inspection. Inspection of pipe and materials will normally be
made at point of destination, however, the Engineer reserves the right to
provide factory inspection as deemed necessary.
      (2)   Gate valve.
         (a)   Notice. The general conditions, special conditions and all other
herein bound and documents accompanying documents are part of these
specifications and of the contract. Submission of proposal implies that the
bidder is fully conversant with all requirements of all above mentioned.
         (b)   Scope.
            1.   The work covered by this section consists of furnishing all
plant, labor, equipment, tools, services and materials and performing all
operations required to execute the gate valve work complete, in strict
accordance with this specification and the applicable drawings and subject to
the terms and conditions of this contract.
            2.   The gate valve work specified herein applies to valves
installed underground on distribution and transmission mains. Valves to be
installed in treatment plant pumping station or similar facilities shall be as
specified in the pipe section of the specifications.
         (c)   Shop drawings. Before commencing work, submit complete shop
drawings and illustrations for work in this section for Engineer’s approval.
Refer to general conditions for detailed information regarding shop drawings
requirements.
         (d)   Gate valves.
            1.   Valve castings shall be made from superior quality of iron,
remelted in a cupola or air furnace; tough and of even grain.
            2.   Valves shall open in the same direction as those installed in
the owner’s existing equipment. In the absence of existing facilities, new gate
valves shall open to the left (counterclockwise). Unless specifically noted on
drawings or specified otherwise, valves shall have hub ends, mechanical joint
ends or flanged ends. Hydrant auxiliary valves may be provided with one flange
end bolting to the hydrant only where so specifically noted on the drawing or
directed in writing by the Engineer. Normally, such valves shall be of the bell
or mechanical joint type installed in the connecting lead between the hydrant
and the main. All other valves installed in underground pipe lines shall have
hub ends or mechanical joint ends.
            3.   All gate valves shall be fully mounted with bronze or other
suitable, non-corrodible metal, of the double disc type, with non-rising stems.
Fit valves three to 12 inches, nominal size, with two-inch square, cast iron
operating nut, mounted directly on the stem. Valves 16 to 48 inches, nominal
size, shall be fitted with bevel gears (without gear or grease cases), rollers
and tracks and non-rising stem bypass valves, as per AWWA Specification C500,
unless otherwise shown on drawings.
            4.   All valves shall conform to requirements of AWWA C500, latest
revision. Valves three to 12 inches, nominal size; suitable for pressures of at
least 200 psi. Valves 16 to 48 inches, nominal size; suitable for pressures of
at least 150 psi.
         (e)   Valve boxes. Provide all valves three to 12 inches inclusive,
nominal size, and all bypass valves with screw top adjustable metal boxes,
approximately five inches in diameter, constructed so that removable cover will
not be thrown out by travel over same. Provide boxes with suitable hoods at
base of lower section to relieve any strain superimposed on valve bonnet.
         (f)   Valve vaults. Provide all valves 16 to 48 inches, nominal size,
with standard manhole enclosure as detailed on the drawings.
         (g)   Foundation.
            1.   Set valves securely on concrete or stone foundation, laid on
solidly compacted ground. Foundation thickness shall be at least eight inches;
volume, one cubic foot minimum concrete, if used, shall be Class Q as specified
in “concrete” section of the specifications.
            2.   Valves shall be set at an elevation conforming to the height
of connecting pipe so that there is no strain on joints.
         (h)   Tapping sleeves and crosses.
            1.   Provide tapping sleeves and gate valves, also tapping crosses,
and gate valves where pressure connections to existing facilities are shown on
drawings. Tapping sleeves, similar and equal to Mueller H-610, H-611 or H-615
or Clow F2552 or F-2562. Tapping crosses, similar and equal to Mueller H-710,
H-711 or H-715 or Clow F-2565 or F-2567. Gate valves for use with tapping
sleeves or crosses; similar and equal to Mueller H-662, H-667 or H-642, or Clow
F-2550 or F-2560.
            2.   Install sleeves and valves in water mains as per
manufacturer’s instructions and without shutting off pressure in existing
mains.
         (i)   Gate valve markers. Where so indicated on the drawings, gate
valves shall be witnessed by permanent reinforced concrete posts of size and
shape as detailed and at the locations shown. Set posts in or as near fence and
valve box tops as possible, with lettering on post facing valve box top. For
other conditions, set and witness post markers as directed by the Engineer.
      (3)   Fire hydrants.
         (a)   Notice. The general conditions, special conditions and all other
herein bound and accompanying documents are part of these specifications and of
the contract. Submission of proposal implies that the bidder is fully
conversant with all requirements of all above mentioned documents.
         (b)   Scope. The work covered by this section consists of furnishing
all plant, labor, equipment, tools, services and materials, and performing all
operations required to execute the fire hydrant work complete, in strict
accordance with this specification and the applicable drawings and subject to
the terms and conditions of the contract.
         (c)   Shop drawings. Before commencing work, submit complete shop
drawings and illustrations for work in this section for Engineer’s approval.
Refer to general conditions for detailed information regarding shop drawings
requirements.
         (d)   Hydrants.
            1.   Fire hydrants shall be provided and installed of a size and in
the number indicated on the drawings, with valve openings and nozzles as
follows:
 
Hydrant Size Valve Opening Water Lateral Nozzles (1
Approximate  Main (2 Required)   Required)          Hose Pumper Nozzle
Connection
6”         6”                6” or 8”       2-1/24-1/2”
5”         5”                6”               2-1/24-1/2”
4”         4”                4”               2-1/2None
 
            2.   Where hydrants are shown on the plans to be connected directly
to the hydrant lead, fit all hydrants with bell or mechanical joint ends,
compatible with the type of hydrant lead pipe. Where hydrants are shown on the
plans to be connected directly to auxiliary gate valves, fit hydrants with
flange ends for connection to the auxiliary gate valves. Such auxiliary gate
valves shall be fitted with flange end for connection to the hydrant shoe and
bell or mechanical joint end to connect to the hydrant pipe lead. Auxiliary
gate valve and box shall conform to requirements specified in division (B)(2)
above.
            3.   Hydrants shall be of the compression or gate type, with
preference given to valve types seating with the pressure and shall have two
positively operated drain valves both being an integral part of the main valve.
The hydrant body shall be of the “breakable” type so designed that neither the
lower portion of the barrel, nor the stem, shall be damaged if the hydrant is
broken and so designed that repairs may be effected by easily replaceable
components.
            4.   The hydrant body shall be of cast iron, all castings of
superior quality iron, remelted in a cupola or air furnace, tough and of even
grain. Unless otherwise noted on the drawings, all hydrants shall have bury of
four and one-half feet when measured from bottom of the connecting pipe to the
ground line beading on the hydrant barrel.
            5.   Hose nipples, hydrant seat, drip valve and stuffing box shall
be of bronze or other suitable non-corroding metal.
            6.   Hose threads on all hydrants shall be interchangeable with
those now in service in owner’s system. Hose nozzles shall be protected with
approved weather caps.
            7.   Hydrant valve shall be faced with suitable, yielding material,
such as rubber or leather; except that, on those of the gate type, bronze ring
may be used.
            8.   All hydrants; conform to AWWA Specification C502, latest
revision.
            9.   Hydrants shall be provided with a one and one-fourth-inch
bronze pentagon operating nut and shall be open in same direction as owner’s
existing equipment or if no hydrants exist shall open to the left (counter-
clockwise).
         (e)   Foundation. Each hydrant shall be supported on a foundation at
least 12 inches square and eight inches thick of stone or solid concrete, set
firmly on solid undisturbed earth. The trench around the hydrant shall be at
least three feet in diameter to permit proper installation of the foundation
and placement of the drainage media hereafter specified.
         (f)   Drainage. Provide adequate drainage for hydrants when closed, by
filling circular space around hydrant with clean, coarse, crushed stone or
gravel (free from foreign matter), graded from one-fourth inch to one and one-
half inches. Place crushed stone or gravel carefully, so as not to displace
hydrant, valve or connecting piping. The drainage fill material shall extend to
the limits shown on the drawings, but in any event shall consist of a minimum
of two cubic yard of crushed stone or gravel. No connection shall be made from
the drainage pit to any sewer or underground drainage conduit.
         (g)   Installation. Before setting, clean hydrants completely free of
dirt and other foreign matter. Set hydrants solidly with sufficient concrete-
blocking behind barrel and behind the connection to the water main to prevent
movement of pipe in joints or of hydrant.
(2007 Code, § 34-7-10)
§ 154.170 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Where the subdivision is located within the village limits and public
sanitary sewers are available, each lot within the subdivided area shall be
provided with a connection to a sanitary sewer, said sewer connection to
terminate not less than two feet beyond the curb or one foot outside the
sidewalk when the sidewalk adjoins the curb. All connections to the sanitary
sewer system and the subdivision sewer system shall comply with the ordinances
of the village and of the Sanitary District pertaining to sewers and all
construction of the system shall be subject to the direction and approval of
the Village Engineer or of the Superintendent of the Sanitary District.
   (B)   If, at any time of final platting, sanitary sewer facilities are not
available to the plat, but under contract to be built and will become available
within a period of two years from the date of plat recording, the subdivider
shall install or cause to be installed mains throughout the subdivision service
to each street lot line in accordance with this section and shall cap all
laterals as may be specified by the Village Engineer. The size, type and
installation of all sanitary sewers proposed to be constructed shall be in
accordance with plans and standard specifications approved by the Village
Engineer.
   (C)   The subdivider shall construct sanitary sewers in such a manner as to
make adequate sanitary sewerage service available to each lot within the
subdivision. If public sewer facilities are not available, the subdivider shall
make provision for adequate private sewage disposal systems if soil and water
conditions are favorable or if adequate methods are undertaken to overcome
limitations of the natural capabilities of the land for waste disposal systems.
Such installations shall meet standards specified by the village’s, state’s and
county’s Boards of Health.
   (D)   Sanitary sewer pipe shall be scaled with resilient compression joints
and shall conform to ASTM Designation C425-66T Type I or II. The minimum
diameter of all lateral sewers shall be eight inches and all pipe under 24-inch
internal diameter shall be bell and spigot, salt glazed, vitrified clay pipe,
conforming to ASTM Spec. E-0200 for extra strength pipe. Asbestos-cement sewer
pipe and cast iron sewer pipe may be used as an alternate sanitary sewer
material. Such alternate materials shall conform to specifications approved by
the Village Board and copies of the same shall be on file with the Village
Clerk. Four- or six-inch house service stubs shall be installed as required to
provide sewer service to every lot in the subdivision wherever house sewers
cannot subsequently be installed without tunneling under or crossing the street
pavement. Such house services shall extend to the street or lot line and shall
have a depth of not less than seven feet at the terminus, wherever possible.
Lateral sewers, wherever possible, shall have a minimum depth of eight feet
below the established street grade. All sewers should be backfilled with sand
or other materials specifically approved by the Village Engineer.
(2007 Code, § 34-7-11)
§ 154.171 STREET LAMPS.
   The subdivider shall install street lamps along all streets of a design
compatible with the neighborhood and type of development proposed. Such lamps
shall be placed at each street intersection and at such interior block spacing
as may be required by the Village Engineer.
(2007 Code, § 34-7-12)
§ 154.172 STREET SIGNS.
   The subdivider shall install at the intersection of all streets proposed to
be dedicated, a street sign of a design specified by the intersection of all
Superintendent of Public Works.
(2007 Code, § 34-7-13)
PROPERTY SPECIFICATIONS
§ 154.185 DEDICATIONS.
   (A)   Areas required to be dedicated.
      (1)   All new streets created by a subdivision shall be shown and
dedicated on the plat as public streets of the village.
      (2)   Where a subdivision abuts on an existing street and the provisions
of the village require an additional width of right-of-way, the subdivider
shall dedicate same.
      (3)   Pedestrian ways bisecting long blocks, or wherever else located,
shall be dedicated to the village.
   (B)   Identification of dedications. Areas to be dedicated shall be clearly
identified and named on the plat and dedicated to the public.
(2007 Code, § 34-8-1)
§ 154.186 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Areas to be shown as easements.
      (1)   Public utilities, storm water facilities and installations shall be
located on suitable easements as specified in this chapter.
      (2)   Planting strips or other buffer zones located between reverse
frontage lots and a thoroughfare, or between incompatible uses, or whatever
required, shall be shown as easements.
   (B)   Identification of easements. Easements shall be clearly identified on
all plats (e.g., “drainage easement”, “utility easement” and “planting strip
easement”).
(2007 Code, § 34-8-2)
§ 154.187 RESERVATIONS.
   (A)   Areas to be reserved. Whenever the area being subdivided embraces all
or part of any lands set aside on the official map for a street, school,
conservation area, other community facility or any other public use, all land
so designated shall be shown on the tentative plat as being dedicated or
reserved for that proposed use, and it shall be reserved by the subdivider for
a period of one year from the date of approval of the final plat, during which
time it shall be made available for sale to the public agency concerned. If the
sale price cannot be agreed upon, the fair cash market value of the property
may be established by an appraiser acceptable to all parties. The sale price
shall be based on the fair cash market value of the date of the filing of the
first tentative plat.
   (B)   Reservations of preliminary plats.
      (1)   Areas reserved shall be clearly identified on the preliminary plat
as reserved in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   The preliminary plat shall also contain the proposals of the
subdivider, as they might otherwise be platted, for the areas under
reservation, to be applied in the event the land is not acquired by the public
within the period of reservation.
      (3)   Upon completion of the one-year period of reservation, the
preliminary plat shall remain a valid preliminary plat for the formerly
reserved areas for a period of one year, subject to restrictions imposed by
this chapter.
   (C)   Reservations and final plats.
      (1)   Where practical, final plats shall not include areas reserved; said
final plats should affect only that portion of the subdivided land which is
unrestricted by the reservations.
      (2)   Where final plats must include areas reserved, such areas shall be
clearly identified as reserved in accordance with this chapter and shall not
contain any proposals of the developer.
      (3)   Final plats may be submitted for reserved land unacquired by the
public at the close of one year. Such plats will be considered additional units
of the subdivisions for which initial final plats were recorded.
   (D)   Reversion. If the appropriate public agency having jurisdiction has
not, within one year of the approval of the preliminary plat, acquired the site
reserved for a public use by the subdivider, he or she may use it in any way
for any purpose permitted by the applicable regulation then in effect.
(2007 Code, § 34-8-3)
§ 154.188 VACATIONS.
   (A)   Procedure. In all cases, the vacation of any plat or part thereof or
any public right-of-way, easement or part thereof shall follow the procedure
for the review of plats established in this chapter; except that:
      (1)   Final action shall be taken by the village; and
      (2)   The Plat Officer shall recommend to the Village Board a sum,
consistent with Zoning Committee policy, to be paid by the owner of abutting
properties in consideration of any public property involved in the vacation.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   No vacation shall be approved which creates a condition which would
not be permitted under the standards of design set forth in this chapter,
unless such vacation would at the same time correct a more serious condition
which exists contrary to the standards of this chapter.
      (2)   No vacation shall be approved which will result in a conflict with
the official plan or official map unless passed by two-thirds vote of the
Village Board.
      (3)   No vacation shall be approved which will result in a violation of
Ch. 155 of this chapter or other applicable village ordinance or regulations,
unless such violation will at the same time correct a more serious condition
which exists contrary to such ordinances or regulations.
   (C)   Petition form and content. The sketch and preliminary plat of vacation
shall be prepared in accordance with the specifications for plats and plans
where pertinent; except that, the preliminary plat of vacation shall be
accompanied by a certified statement of the assessed valuation of all
properties surrounding any public right-of-way to be vacated. Final petitions
for vacation shall include the following items:
      (1)   Three copies of the original plat or the applicable part thereof
certified by the Recorder to be a true copy of same, on which is shown the
portion to be vacated outlined in a heavy line and hatched;
      (2)   The following petitions, deeds and certifications, all drafted from
models obtainable from the Plat Officer:
         (a)   Deed of vacation;
         (b)   Petition - three copies;
         (c)   County Clerk’s certificate;
         (d)   Resolution; and
         (e)   Assessor’s certificate.
      (3)   The petition as it is presented to the Village Board shall be
accompanied by a report from the Committee.
   (D)   Easements. The vacation of any plat or part thereof or right-of-way
easement or part thereof shall not be deemed to be a vacation of the rights of
any public utility where said public utility has installed its facilities
therein.
(2007 Code, § 34-8-4)
§ 154.189 BONDS AND FINANCIAL GUARANTEES.
   (A)   To ensure proper compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the
following bonds and financial guarantees shall be required therefor:
      (1)   A construction agreement;
      (2)   A performance guarantee;
      (3)   A maintenance guarantee; and
      (4)   Proof of adequate liability and title insurance.
   (B)   All bonds and insurance required under this section shall be secured
from companies authorized to do business in the state and shall be deposited
and remain at all times with the Clerk of the village.
   (C)   (1)   To assure construction and installation of improvements required
by these regulations, the subdivider shall execute a construction agreement
with the Village Board in form and substance approved by the legal counsel.
This agreement shall provide that all such improvements shall be constructed
and installed at the subdivider’s expense in compliance with the standards and
specifications for each of the various types of improvements; such improvements
shall be available to and for the benefit of the lands within such subdivision;
that such improvements will be completed and installed within 24 months of the
date of approval of the preliminary plat.
      (2)   The construction agreement shall further provide that, in the case
where approval of the final plat has been given before construction of
improvements and a performance guarantee has been provided and, if the
improvements are not completed within the specified time, the village upon
proper notice may complete the improvements and recover full costs and expenses
thereof from the subdivider and may appropriate such portion of money or bonds
posted for the faithful performance of said works.
   (D)   No construction of any improvements or clearing, grubbing and grading
shall be commenced prior to the approval of the construction agreement by the
Village Board.
   (E)   (1)   Type of guarantee. The subdivider may execute and file financial
guarantees with the Village Board in lieu of actual installation or completion
of the required improvements when requesting conditional approval of the final
plat. Such guarantees may be in the form of a performance of surety bond, a
certified check or any other type of guarantee approved by the Village Board.
      (2)   Term of guarantee. Guarantees shall be for a period of not longer
than two years unless the Village Board extends the time period by resolution.
      (3)   Amount of guarantee.
         (a)   The financial guarantee shall be in an amount equal to the
Village Engineer’s estimate of: the cost of construction of all improvements,
plus the engineers fees for office checking and field inspection.
         (b)   When any portion of an improvement has, upon inspection, been
found satisfactorily completed, a reduction in the bonds or partial withdrawal
of funds equal to the estimated costs of such completed improvements may be
authorized by the Village Board.
   (F)   (1)   The maintenance bond shall be of such amount as determined by
the Village Engineer and shall be arranged for a period of one year from date
of acceptance of improvements by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   The maintenance bond shall be determined by taking into
consideration topography, soil conditions and prevailing costs of labor and
materials. No maintenance bond should be less than $1,000.
      (3)   The subdivider shall be responsible for routine maintenance of all
improvements and shall repair all failures due to faulty construction as soon
as they became apparent.
      (4)   He or she shall also make repairs due to erosion or abuse by
utility companies installing utilities and shall repair all failures for all
other reasons during the maintenance bond period. He or she shall also restore
the roads and streets at the end of the maintenance period.
   (G)   The subdivider shall furnish such insurance as is deemed necessary by
the Village Board which shall indemnify and save harmless the village from any
and all liability arising by reason of the conditions of the streets of said
subdivision which may arise or grow out of the construction of installation of
such facilities. The insurance shall be of such duration as determined by the
Village Board, but shall in no case be allowed to expire earlier than the
effective period of any maintenance bond. A copy of the insurance policy shall
remain at all times with the Village Clerk.
   (H)   Evidence must be shown that title insurance in an amount of not less
than $1,000 will be issued insuring the title of the lands to be dedicated, as
shown on the final plat.
(2007 Code, § 34-8-5)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever willfully violates any rule or provision of these regulations
or fails to comply with any order pursuant thereto shall forfeit and pay not
less than $750. Each and every day a violation exists shall constitute a new
and separate violation under this chapter of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, whether he or she be the owner or agent of the owner
who transfers any sublot, parcel or trace of land before a plat has been
approved by the village and recorded in the office of the County Recorder,
shall forfeit and pay the sum of not less than $100, nor more than $750, for
each sublot, parcel or tract of land so sold.
      (2)   The description of such sublot, parcel or tract by metes and bounds
in the deed or transfer shall not serve to exempt the seller from the
forfeiture provided in this section.
   (C)   Any person who disposes of or offers for sale or lease for a time
exceeding five years, any sublot or any part of a sublot, in a subdivision
before provisions of these regulations are complied with, shall forfeit and pay
$750 for each sublot or part of a sublot so sold, offered for sale or leased,
to be recovered with costs in a civil action, in the name of the Village
Treasurer for the use of the village.
(2007 Code, § 34-9-2)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Short title
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Enforcement and administration
   
155.04   Amendments
   
155.05   Interpretation
Districts
   
155.20   Districts and general requirements
   
155.21   “A-1” Single-Family Residence District
   
155.22   “A-2” Two-Family Residence District
   
155.23   “A-3” Multiple Dwelling District
   
155.24   “B” Commercial Service District
   
155.25   “C” Industrial District
   
155.26   “D” Agricultural District
Supplementary Regulations
   
155.40   Area and height regulations for all districts
   
155.41   Off-street parking
   
155.42   Special uses
   
155.43   Non-conforming uses
Board of Appeals
   
155.55   Creation and membership
   
155.56   Jurisdiction
   
155.57   Appeals
   
155.58   Variations
   
155.59   Notices
   
155.60   Review
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance”.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the
singular number include the plural, and words in the plural number include the
singular; the word “shall” is mandatory and not directory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A subordinate building or a portion of the
main building, located on the same lot as the main building, the use of which
is incidental to that of the main building or to the main use of the lot. An
ACCESSORY USE is one which is incidental to the main use of a building or land.
      BLOCK FRONT. All of the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets.
      BUILDING. Any structure, including a roof supported by walls, designed or
intended for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of persons, animals,
chattels or property and forming a construction that is safe and stable; the
word BUILDING shall include the word STRUCTURE.
      BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade (elevation of
the curb, sidewalk or average elevation of the ground around the structure) to
the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a
mansard roof, or the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip
or gambrel roofs.
      CLINIC. An establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight are
admitted for examination and treatment by two or more dentists or physicians
practicing together.
      DISTRICT. A section or sections of the village for which the regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of buildings, the size
of yards and intensity of use are uniform.
      DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed for or used
exclusively for residential purposes, but not including hotels, motels, motor
courts or trailers.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building designed for or occupied by three or more
families.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or used exclusively by
one family as a residence.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by two
families.
      DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms within a dwelling and forming a
single habitable unit with permanent facilities for living, sleeping and
cooking.
      FAMILY. One or more persons each related to the other by blood, marriage
or adoption, or a group of not more than three persons not so related
maintaining a common household in a dwelling unit. Domestic servants and
gratuitous guests residing with a FAMILY shall be considered to be members of
the FAMILY.
      FARM. An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products
such as vegetables, fruit, trees and grain, and their storage on the area, as
well as for the raising thereon of the usual farm poultry and farm animals only
for the use or consumption of the person or persons operating the FARM. The
term FARMING includes the operating of such an area for one or more of the
above uses, including the necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the
produce; provided, however, that, the operation or any such accessory uses
shall be secondary to that of the normal farming activities; and, provided
further that, FARMING does not include the feeding of garbage or offal to swine
or other animals.
      FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of all floors of a
building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the
centerline of walls separating buildings, but not including cellar or basement
space not used for business or commerce.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building which is designed or used for the
storage of not more than three motor-driven vehicles which are the property of
and for the private use of the occupants of the lot on which the PRIVATE GARAGE
is located. Not more than one of the vehicles may be a commercial vehicle.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof, other than a private
garage, designed or used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring, selling
or storing motor-driven vehicles.
      HOME OCCUPATION.
         (a)   Any occupation or activity entirely incidental to residential
use, when:
            1.   Carried on in the main building by a member of the immediate
family residing on the premises;
            2.   No sign display or other evidence other than a maximum three
square foot identification sign shall be placed on any lot and shall not
advertise any product, nor which shall contain any mobile luminous or flashing
parts;
            3.   There is no commodity sold upon the premises;
            4.   No person is employed other than a member of the immediate
family residing on the premises; and
            5.   No mechanical equipment is used, except of a type that is
similar in character to that normally used for purely domestic or household
purposes.
         (b)   HOME OCCUPATION shall include the use of premises by a
physician, surgeon or dentist for consultation or emergency treatment, but not
for the general practice of his or her profession.
         (c)   HOME OCCUPATION shall also include private tutoring limited to
three pupils at anyone time, nursery schools limited to three pupils, musical
instruction limited to a single pupil at a time, and a maximum of four hours of
instruction per day; architects, professional engineers, surveyors and other
professional persons; provided that, no person is employed other than a member
of the immediate family residing on the premises.
         (d)   A HOME OCCUPATION may include barber shops, beauty shops when:
            1.   No more than one chair for a barber shop is installed in the
building; and no more than two hair dryers for a beauty shop;
            2.   When the shop is on a 18,000 square foot or more lot and can
provide space for two off-street parking spaces on the lot; and
            3.   Divisions (a) through (d) above are adhered to.
         (e)   A HOME OCCUPATION shall not be interpreted to include commercial
stables and/or kennels.
      HOTEL. A building in which lodging, or lodging and meals, are regularly
provided or offered to the public for compensation and which is customarily
open to transient guests and in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms
is made through an inside lobby or office.
      JUNK YARD. A lot, land or structure, or part thereof, used primarily for
the collecting, storage and sale of waste paper, dismantling, storage and
salvaging to machinery or vehicles not in running conditions and for sale of
parts thereof. A JUNKYARD includes auto wrecking yards.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use
permitted in this chapter, including one main building together with its
accessory buildings, the open spaces and parking spaces required by this
chapter and having its principal frontage upon a street.
      LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership, except that where any portion of the lot extends into an abutting
street or alley, the LOT LINE shall be deemed to be the street or alley line.
The FRONT LOT LINE is the boundary of a lot which is along a street; except
that, on corner lots the front lot line shall be deemed along the street upon
which the lot has its least dimension. The REAR LOT LINE is the boundary of a
lot at the opposite end of the lot from the front lot line. The SIDE LOT LINE
is any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county prior to the
passage of this chapter; or a parcel of land, the deed of which was recorded in
the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county prior to the passage of this
chapter.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection.
      MORE RESTRICTED CLASSIFICATION. A zoning district in which the
limitations upon the uses to which a building or land can be devoted are more
restricted than those in the district with which it is being compared. The “A-
1”, “A-2”, “A-3” Residence Districts are more restricted than the “B”
Commercial District; the “B” Commercial District is more restricted than the
“C” Industrial District.
      MOTEL, MOTOR HOTEL or MOTOR COURT. A building or group of related
buildings in which lodging is provided or offered for compensation to transient
guests customarily traveling by automobile.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at
the time of passage of this chapter or any amendment thereto, which does not
conform after the passage of this chapter or amendment thereto with the use
regulations of the district in which it is situated. The term also includes any
use of a building or land which becomes non-conforming by virtue of being
annexed to the village subsequent to the passage of this chapter.
      PARKING SPACE. A surfaced area of at least 180 square feet located on the
same lot as the building or use it is intended to serve and of such shape as to
be suitable for parking or storage of a motor vehicle. The minimum area is
exclusive of driveways which give convenient access between the PARKING SPACE
and a street serving the lot.
      SERVICE STATION. Any building, structure or land used for the dispensing,
sale or offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels, oils or
accessories, including lubrication of automobiles and replacement or
installation of minor parts and accessories, but not including major repair
work such as motor replacement, body and fender repair or spray painting. When
such services are incidental to the conduct of a public garage, the use shall
be classified as a public garage.
      STORY. The portion of a building, other than a cellar or basement,
included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next
above it or, if there is no floor above it, the space between the floor and the
ceiling next above it.
      STORY, HALF. A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than four
feet above the floor of such story; except that, any partial story used for
residence purposes, other than for a janitor or caretaker or his or her family,
or by a family occupying the floor immediately below it, shall be deemed a full
story.
      STREET. Any public or private way set aside as a permanent right-of-way
which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
      STRUCTURE. Any thing constructed or erected, the use of which requires
more or less permanent location on or in the ground or attached to something
having a permanent location on or in the ground, including, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, advertising signs, billboards, back
stops for tennis courts, pergolas, carports, open sheds and underground storage
vaults or tanks.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the structural or supporting members
of a building, such as a bearing wall, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or exterior walls.
      TRAILER OR TOURIST CAMP. Any lot or parcel used for one or more auto
trailers, tents, house or camp cars or other portable or mobile shelters used
for living, sleeping, business or storage purposes.
      TRAILER.
         (a)   Any structure used for living, sleeping, business or storage
purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses
or skirtings and which is, has been or reasonably can be, equipped with wheels
or other devices for transporting the structure from place to place, whether by
motive power or other means.
         (b)   The term TRAILER shall include camp car and house car.
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building which is measured as
the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line and main building. A YARD
shall be unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided by this chapter or amendments thereto.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
lot lines and measured as the minimum horizontal distance between the street
line and the front of the main building or any projection thereof, other than
the projection of steps, terraces, uncovered porches of uncovered entrance ways
which are permitted by this chapter. On corner lots, the FRONT YARD shall be
deemed as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of the lot between the side
lot lines and measured as the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot
line and the rear of the main building or any projection thereof, other than
the projection of steps, terraces, uncovered porches or uncovered entrance ways
which are permitted by this chapter. On all lots, the REAR YARD shall be at the
opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard to the rear yard. A SIDE YARD is measured as the
minimum horizontal distance between the side lot line and the side of the main
building.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.03 ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the person appointed by the President and
Board of Trustees, as Building Inspector to enforce and administer the
regulations contained herein.
   (B)   No building shall be constructed or altered without a building permit
nor without a certificate of occupancy as required by this section. Building
permits and occupancy permits shall be issued by the Building Inspector.
Application for a building permit shall be made to the Building Inspector and
shall be accompanied by a plat, in duplicate, drawn to scale showing the name
of the applicant, the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size,
shape and location of the building to be erected, and such other information as
may be necessary for the enforcement of this chapter. A record of applications
and plats shall be kept in the office of the Building Inspector.
   (C)   Subsequent to the passage of this chapter no change in the use or
occupancy of land, or in the use or occupancy of an existing building other
than for single-family dwelling purposes, shall be made, nor shall any new
building be occupied until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
Building Inspector. Such certificate of occupancy shall state that the new
occupancy complies with all provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   No permit for excavation for, or the erection or alteration of any
building shall be issued before application has been made and approved for a
certificate of occupancy, and no building or premises shall be occupied until
such certificate and permit is issued. A record of all certificates of
occupancy shall be kept on file in the office of the Building Inspector.
   (E)   Fees for the issuance of building permits and certificates of
occupancy shall be established by the President and Board of Trustees from time
to time.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.04 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The President and Board of Trustees may, from time to time on its own
motion or on petition. amend this chapter and the districts created herein. in
the manner prescribed by 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14. The Board of Appeals is hereby
designated as a commission to hold hearings on such amendments. No such
amendment shall be made until after it has been referred to the Board of
Appeals for a public hearing and a report has been received by said Board.
   (B)   (1)   All petitions asking for an amendment of this chapter or the
districts created herein, shall be filed with the Village Clerk, and shall
specify the exact nature of the amendment requested, and the legal description
of any real estate owned by the petitioner adjacent to the area proposed to be
changed and the legal description of the district or parts of districts
proposed to be changed.
      (2)   Such petition shall recite facts indicating that the proposed
amendment will not be detrimental to the general public interest and the
purposes of this chapter and shall further disclose the use which the
petitioner proposes for property owned by him or her in the area to be changed.
   (C)   A petition asking for an amendment of this chapter or the districts
created herein shall be accompanied by a receipt from the Village Treasurer
showing the payment of a fee of $35, which is hereby established as the
required fee for each petition asking for such amendment.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.05 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of a district
as shown on the district map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless
otherwise shown, and where the district designated on the district map is
bounded approximately by street or alley shall be construed to be such
boundary.
      (2)   Where the district boundary is not otherwise indicated, and where
the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, such
boundary shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the district
designated on the district map is bounded approximately by lot lines, such lot
lines shall be construed to be the boundary of the districts unless otherwise
indicated on the map.
      (3)   In unsubdivided property, the district boundary shall be determined
by the use of the scale appearing on the map.
   (B)   (1)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter,
they shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
safety, health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare.
      (2)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with or aggregate
or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties;
provided, however, that, where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon
the use of buildings or land, or upon the height of buildings, or requires
larger open spaces or yards than are imposed or required by other ordinances,
rules, regulations or by easements, covenants or agreements between parties,
the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
DISTRICTS
§ 155.20 DISTRICTS AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purposes of this chapter, the village is hereby divided
into six zoning districts to be known as follows:
         (a)   “A-1” Single-Family Residence District;
         (b)   “A-2” Two-Family Residence District;
         (c)   “A-3” Multiple Dwelling District;
         (d)   “B” Commercial Service District;
         (e)   “C” Industrial District; and
         (f)   “D” Agricultural District.
      (2)   The boundaries of these districts are shown on the district map
which accompanies and which is hereby made a part of this chapter. The original
of this map is properly attested and on file with the Village Clerk, and said
map and all the information shown thereon shall have the same force and effect
as if fully set forth or described herein.
   (B)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed,
moved or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used except
for a use permitted in the district in which such building or land is located.
No building shall be erected, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or structurally
altered, except in conformity with the height, yard, area per family, off-
street parking and other regulations prescribed herein for the district in
which such building is located.
   (C)   The minimum yards, parking spaces and open spaces, including lot area
per family, required by this chapter for each and every building existing at
the time of passage of this chapter or for any building hereafter erected,
shall not be encroached upon or considered as part of the yard or parking space
or open space required for any other building, nor shall any lot area be
reduced below the requirements of this chapter for the district in which such
lot is located.
   (D)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot, as defined in §
155.02 of this chapter, and in no case shall more than one residential building
be located on a lot.
   (E)   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall be
automatically classified as a “A-1” Single-Family Residence District until this
classification is changed by amendment to this chapter.
   (F)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated, the zoning
district adjoining each side of such street, alley or public way shall be
automatically extended to the center of such vacation, and all area included in
the vacation shall then and henceforth be subject to all appropriate
regulations of the extended districts.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.21 “A-1” SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   In the “A-1” Single-Family Residence District, the following uses only are
permitted:
   (A)   Dwelling, single-family;
   (B)   Church, school or library;
   (C)   Public park, playground or community center;
   (D)   Golf course or a private club not operated for gain;
   (E)   Truck garden; provided that, no structure, building or enclosure for
the sale or storage of the produce be permitted;
   (F)   Home occupation;
   (G)   Private garage customarily incident to the above uses, but not
involving the conduct of a business; provided that, such private garage is not
constructed prior to beginning construction of the main building and provided
only one private garage is constructed on each lot; and
   (H)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to the above uses,
not involving the conduct of a business, including a church, school or similar
bulletin board, or sign not exceeding ten square feet in area appertaining to
the lease, hire or sale of a building or land, or the sale of products grown
only on the premises; provided that, not more than one sign of the above
character shall be permitted upon any lot; provided that, any accessory
building is not constructed prior to beginning construction of the main
building.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.22 “A-2” TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   In the “A-2” Two-Family Residence District, the following uses only are
permitted:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the “A-1” Single Family Residence District; and
   (B)   Two-family dwelling.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.23 “A-3” MULTIPLE DWELLING DISTRICT.
   In the “A-3” Multiple Dwelling District, the following uses only are
permitted:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the “A-2” Two-Family Residence District; and
   (B)   Multiple dwelling.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.24 “B” COMMERCIAL SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   In the “B” Commercial Service District, the following uses only are
permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the “A-3” Multiple Dwelling District;
      (2)   Store or shop where goods are sold primarily at retail or personal
services are rendered, including a grocery, drug store, meat market, hardware
store, gift shop, bank, beauty parlor, restaurant, studio, shoe repair,
electrical repair or similar retail sales, service or repair shop;
      (3)   Office;
      (4)   Hotel;
      (5)   Service station or, when located at least 25 feet from any “A”
District boundary, a public garage;
      (6)   Business or commercial school or dancing or music academy;
      (7)   Clinic;
      (8)   Theater;
      (9)   Printing shop;
      (10)   Automobile, farm implement or trailer display or sales room;
      (11)   Automobile, farm implement or trailer sales or storage lot when
located at least twenty-five feet from any “A” boundary;
      (12)   Billboard, when at least 100 feet from any “A” District boundary;
      (13)   Frozen food locker;
      (14)   Milk distributing station;
      (15)   Motel, motor hotel or motor court;
      (16)   Painting, plumbing, tinsmithing, upholstering or similar general
service shop;
      (17)   Undertaking establishment or mortuary;
      (18)   Veterinarian or animal hospital; provided, any such building,
kennel or exercise runway is located at least 100 feet from any “A” District
boundary;
      (19)   Also when located at least 100 feet from any “A” District
boundary:
         (a)   Bowling alley;
         (b)   Drive-in restaurant or similar establishment;
         (c)   Drive-in theater; and
         (d)   Other similar place of entertainment or amusement.
      (20)   Accessory building or use customarily incident to the above uses.
   (B)   In the above uses when a minimum distance is required from any “A”
District boundary, this shall include the “A-1” Single-Family Residence
District, the “A-2” Two-Family Residence District and the “A-3” Multiple
Dwelling District.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.25 “C” INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   In the “C” Industrial District, the following uses only are permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the “B” Commercial Service District;
      (2)   Bottling works;
      (3)   Carting, express or storage yard;
      (4)   Contractor’s yard;
      (5)   Coal, coke or lumber yard;
      (6)   Grain elevator;
      (7)   Any other business, industry or manufacturing use where the process
of manufacture or treatment or other activity is such that only a nominal
amount of dust, odor, gas, smoke, vibration or noise is emitted and not more
than 10% of the lot or tract is used for the open storage of products,
materials or equipment; and
      (8)   Any other use not in conflict with the enacted laws of the state or
the ordinances of the village regulating nuisances; provided that, no use
omitting or likely to emit substantial amounts of dust, odor, gas, smoke,
vibration or noise, and none of the following specific uses shall be permitted
unless approved by the President and Board of Trustees after a review and
report of the Board of Appeals, and subject to such requirements as the
President and Board of Trustees may deem necessary to protect adjacent property
and prevent objectionable or offensive conditions:
         (a)   Acid or chemical manufacture;
         (b)   Auto wrecking yard or junk yard;
         (c)   Yard for storage of wrecked automobiles;
         (d)   Commercial buying or selling of live poultry or storage thereof;
         (e)   Distillation of bones;
         (f)   Dumping, storage or disposal of garbage, trash, refuse, waste,
junk or abandoned material;
         (g)   Explosives, manufacture or storage;
         (h)   Fat rendering or fertilizer manufacture;
         (i)   Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction or dumping;
         (j)   Glue manufacture;
         (k)   Lime, phosphate or limestone storage or handling;
         (l)   Slaughter or processing of poultry or poultry products;
         (m)   Stockyards or slaughter and processing of animals;
         (n)   Wholesale or retail bulk storage of gasoline or propane; and
         (o)   Any similar use that would be hazardous to the public health,
safety or welfare.
   (B)   In authorizing any of the uses in this section, there may be imposed
such reasonable requirements as to landscaping, off-street parking, screening
and other features of the development as are deemed necessary to protect
adjacent property and prevent objectionable or hazardous conditions.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.26 “D” AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   In the “D” Agricultural District, the following uses only are permitted:
   (A)   All types of farming; provided that, all types of buildings for the
storage of products and the housing of animals, be located at least 300 feet
from any “A” District boundary;
   (B)   Greenhouse or nursery; and
   (C)   Any other use not in conflict with the enacted laws of the state or
the ordinances of the village; provided, it be approved by the President and
Board of Trustees after a review and report of the Board of Appeals, and
subject to such requirements as the President and Board of Trustees may deem
necessary to protect adjacent property and prevent objectionable or offensive
conditions.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 155.40 AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS FOR ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the area and height
regulations shall be as follows.
      (1)   Area. Every lot used for a single-family dwelling shall have a
minimum area of 11,200 square feet. Every lot used for a two-family dwelling
shall have a minimum lot area of 14,000 square feet. Every lot used for a
multiple dwelling shall have a minimum lot area of 4,000 square feet per
dwelling unit, but no lot used for a multiple dwelling shall have a minimum lot
area of less than 14,000 square feet. No minimum is required for a lot used
only for commercial or industrial purposes.
      (2)   Yards.
         (a)   The front yard requirements are 25 feet in the “A-1” Single-
Family Residence District, the “A-2” Two-Family Residence District, “A-3”
Multiple Dwelling District, the “B” Commercial Service District and the “C”
Industrial District.
         (b)   The side yard requirements for dwellings shall be a minimum of
ten feet. No side yard is required for business, commercial or industrial
buildings, except along the side of a lot abutting a lot in a “A” District in
which case a side yard of 25 feet shall be provided.
         (c)   The rear yard requirements for dwellings shall be a minimum of
25 feet.
         (d)   A rear yard of at least two feet shall be required for business,
commercial or industrial buildings, except on a lot abutting a lot in an “A”
District in which case a rear yard of 25 feet shall be provided.
      (3)   Minimum width. Every lot used for a dwelling shall have a minimum
width of 80 feet.
      (4)   Building height. No building shall exceed a height of two and one-
half stories or a height of 35 feet in the “A-1” Single-Family Residence
District, the “A-2” Two-Family Residence District, the “A-3” Multiple Dwelling
District or the “B” Commercial Service District, or a height of three stories,
or 45 feet, in a “C” Industrial District.
      (5)   No requirements. There shall be no requirements as to area, yards,
lot width or building height in the “D” Agricultural District; except that,
where said district abuts an “A” District, no building other than a dwelling
shall be constructed within 50 feet of said district boundary.
      (6)   Variance. When the owner or owners of a single-family residence
within an “A-1” District desire to construct an addition to the existing
principal structure, and the side and rear yard setback of the addition are to
be identical to the current side yard and rear yard setbacks of the existing
principle structure, a variance shall not be required as long as all other
requirements of this chapter are met.
   (B)   The height and area regulations specified in the foregoing section
shall be modified under certain conditions or with respect to certain types of
structures as specified below.
      (1)   Lot area and width. Where a lot of record at the time of the
passage of this chapter has less area or width than herein required, and the
owner of such a lot does not own any other parcel or tract adjacent thereto,
said lot may nonetheless be used for a single-family dwelling.
      (2)   Front yard.
         (a)   Where 30% or more of a block front is improved with buildings,
then no part of any new building shall project beyond a line joining the two
adjacent corners of the buildings on either side thereof, or where there is a
building on only one side, beyond a line projected from the corresponding
adjacent corners of the two nearest buildings; except that, no building shall
be required to provide a front yard greater than 50 feet in any event.
         (b)   A corner lot shall have a yard on each street which meets the
front yard requirements of the district in which it is located; except that,
the building width of the lot shall not be reduced to less than 40 feet, and no
accessory building shall project beyond the required yard on either street.
      (3)   Side yard. For the purpose of the side yard regulations, a building
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be considered as one building
occupying one lot.
      (4)   Rear yard. The required rear yard may be reduced to 20% of the
depth of the lot on a lot of record which does not have a depth of at least 120
feet. An accessory building may be built within a required rear yard when
located at least five feet from the rear and side lot lines and when occupying
not more than 30% of the area of such required rear yard.
      (5)   All yards. The ordinary projection of sills, belt courses,
cornices, eaves and ornamental features may be permitted not to exceed 24
inches in any required minimum side yard. An open, uncovered porch, paved
terrace, entrance way or steps, may extend not more than ten feet into the
required minimum front yard.
      (6)   Height. Chimneys, cooling towers or water towers, elevators,
bulkheads, fire towers, monuments, stacks, stage towers, tanks, spires, church
steeples, radio towers or necessary mechanical apparatus may be erected to any
safe height not in conflict with any other ordinance of the village. Public,
semi-public or public service buildings, hospitals, institutions, churches and
schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a height not exceeding
60 feet; provided, all required yards are increased by one foot for each foot
of building height above the height limit otherwise provided.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -; Ord. 2011-02-21-2, passed 2-21-
2012)
§ 155.41 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   In all districts, whenever a building is erected, converted, enlarged
or structurally altered for a use described in this section, or the use of a
building or land is hereafter changed to a use described in this section, then
off-street parking for automobiles or trucks shall be provided on the lot or
tract of land used in accordance with the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   For dwellings: two parking spaces for each dwelling unit;
      (2)   Business or professional office, bank, medical or dental clinic:
three parking spaces plus one additional parking space for each 300 square feet
of floor area over 1,000;
      (3)   Hotel: one parking space for each three sleeping rooms or suites,
plus one space for each 200 square feet of commercial floor area contained
therein;
      (4)   Tourist home, cabin or motel: one parking space plus one parking
space for each sleeping room or suite;
      (5)   Restaurant, café or recreation or amusement establishment: one
parking space for each 100 square feet of floor area;
      (6)   Retail store or personal service establishment, except as otherwise
specified herein: one parking space for each 200 square feet of floor area;
      (7)   Furniture or appliance store, hardware store, wholesale
establishments, machinery or equipment sales and services, clothing or shoe
repair or service shop: two parking spaces, plus one additional parking space
for each 300 square feet of floor area over 1,000;
      (8)   Printing or plumbing shop or similar service establishment: one
parking space for each three persons employed therein;
      (9)   Bowling alley: five parking spaces for each alley;
      (10)   For any manufacturing or industrial use: one parking space for
each two employees on the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate all
trucks and other vehicles in connection therewith; and
      (11)   A required off-street parking space shall be at least nine feet in
width and at least 18 feet in length exclusive of access drives or aisles,
ramps, columns or office or work areas. Enclosed parking spaces shall have a
vertical clearance of at least seven feet.
   (B)   In computing the number of such parking spaces required, the following
rules shall govern.
      (1)   FLOOR AREA shall mean the gross floor area of a specific use.
      (2)   The parking space requirement for a use not specifically mentioned
herein shall be the same as required for a use of similar nature.
      (3)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall
be construed to be the nearest whole number.
      (4)   In the case of mixed uses, the parking spaces required shall equal
the sum of the requirements of the various uses computed separately.
   (C)   (1)   Parking spaces may be provided in the required side, rear and
front yards of lots located in the “B” Commercial Service District and the “C”
Industrial District; except that, parking spaces may be provided only in the
required side and rear yard when a lot in such districts is used for a
dwelling. Parking spaces may be provided in the required side and rear yard of
lots located in the “A” Residence Districts, but not in the required front yard
thereof.
      (2)   Each required off-street parking space shall open directly upon an
aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and efficient
means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off-street parking
facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to a
street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic movement.
No driveway across public property at the right-of-way line shall exceed a
width of 25.
      (3)   Accessory parking spaces may be open to the sky or enclosed in a
building.
      (4)   All open off-street parking areas containing four or more parking
spaces shall be improved with a compacted base and permanent wearing surface as
approved by the designated Village Engineer.
      (5)   All open parking areas containing more than four parking spaces,
located less than 40 feet from a property line, shall be effectively screened
on each side adjoining or fronting on any property situated in a residential
district or any institutional premises by a wall or fence, not less than five
feet, nor more than eight feet in height. Screening shall be property
maintained in good repair.
      (6)   Lighting shall be used to illuminate off-street parking areas and
shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way as not to
create a nuisance and, in a parking area containing ten or more parking spaces,
security lighting shall be maintained during hours of darkness.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.42 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   The President and Board of Trustees of the village may, by resolution,
grant a special permit for the following special uses in any district, except
as herein qualified, for which they are otherwise prohibited by this chapter,
and may impose appropriate conditions, safeguards and off-street parking
requirements, and including a specified period of time for the permit, to
conserve and protect property and property values in the neighborhood:
      (1)   Hospital, clinic, nursing home, sheltered care home or similar
institutions; provided that, less than 40% of the total land area is occupied
by buildings and that all the required yards are increased by one foot for each
foot of building height;
      (2)   Airport, landing field or strip for aircraft;
      (3)   Radio or television broadcasting tower or station;
      (4)   Cemetery or mausoleum;
      (5)   Removal of gravel, topsoil or similar natural material, with
safeguards for the protection of adjoining property and the community as a
whole;
      (6)   Riding stable;
      (7)   Roadside stand, commercial amusement or recreational development
for temporary or seasonal periods;
      (8)   Sanitary fill for the disposal of garbage or trash;
      (9)   Railroad or public utility structure other than the usual poles,
wires and underground utilities; and
      (10)   (a)   Trailer or tourist camp, observing all appropriate state and
village regulations; provided, there is at least 2,000 square feet of lot area
per trailer, no trailer or service building is closer than 25 feet to any lot
line, and such hard-surfaced drives, landscaping and similar improvements are
provided as may be deemed necessary for its proper development and for the
protection of the surrounding area are provided.
         (b)   No trailer shall be occupied, or otherwise used for living,
sleeping, business or storage purposes within the village limits unless such
trailer is parked within a trailer or tourist camp which has been granted a
special permit, as set forth herein.
         (c)   No trailer which is designed for use primarily as a mobile home
as opposed to camping, hauling and the like shall be parked within the village
limits unless such trailer is parked within a trailer or tourist camp which has
been granted a special permit, as set forth herein.
   (B)   A second type of special use where a new or unusual use, not covered
in division (A) above may be granted after holding a hearing as prescribed in
division (D) below; provided that:
      (1)   Because of the characteristics of the use, it is desirable that the
use be located in this zone;
      (2)   The use can be operated or developed in such a manner that it will
not adversely effect surrounding land uses;
      (3)   The character is unique to the extent that it cannot be classified
as a permitted use in any zone; and
      (4)   Such special uses shall only be permitted after the Board of
Appeals submits to the Village Board in writing a report explaining why the
proposed use meets the above criteria and recommend under what conditions the
special use shall be permitted.
   (C)   (1)   A temporary use permit may be granted for a specific length of
time for restricted uses, such as, landfills, gravel operations, forestry
activities, special events such as centennials, fairs, carnivals and revival
meetings provided that the Board finds:
         (a)   The use will not have a detrimental effect on surrounding land
use;
         (b)   A plat is submitted with the permit showing the placement of
temporary structures, parking, utilities and necessary sanitary facilities (as
required by the Health Department); and, provided that, no construction is done
other than that associated with the temporary use; and
         (c)   If the natural landscape, vegetation terrain, soil cover or
drainage is disrupted, plans will be submitted to the Commission and the
developer will be responsible for improvements necessary to restore the
property to its original condition.
      (2)   The Board reserves the right to repeal any special use permit where
it finds the use being conducted in such a manner that it violates the general
requirements of this chapter, or the special requirements provided for in the
issuance of the permit.
   (D)   Before authorization of any of the above special uses, the request
therefor shall be referred to the Board of Appeals for study and report
concerning the effect of the proposed use on the character and development of
the neighborhood and a public hearing shall be held in relation thereto before
the Board of Appeals. Notice of the time, place and purpose of such hearing
shall be given in the manner prescribed for hearings on amendments to this
chapter. If no report is received from the Board of Appeals within 60 days of
such referral, the President and Board of Trustees may take action without
further awaiting such report.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.43 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a non-conforming use of
a building, or a portion thereof, may be continued even though such use does
not conform with the provisions hereof. If no structural alterations are made,
a non-conforming use of a building may be changed to another non- conforming
use of the same or more restricted classification; provided, the off-street
parking requirements applicable to the new use are met. Whenever a non-
conforming use is changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, it
shall not, therefore, be changed to a less restricted use.
   (B)   The non-conforming building which has been damaged by fire, explosion,
act of God or the public enemy to the extent of more than 60% of its
reproduction value at the time of damage shall not be restored except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located. When
damaged, by less than 60% of its reproduction value, a non-conforming building
may be repaired or reconstructed and used as before the time of damage provided
such repairs or reconstruction are completed within one year of the date of
such damage.
   (C)   Whenever a non-conforming use of a building or portion thereof is
discontinued for a continuous period of two years, any future use of such
building or portion thereof shall be in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which such building is located.
   (D)   A non-conforming use of land may be continued; provided, however,
that, no such non- conforming use of land shall be in any way expanded or
extended, either on the same or adjoining property. If such non-conforming use
of land or any portion thereof is discontinued for a continuous period of six
months, or changed, any future use of such land shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   The non-conforming use of land for storage purposes and non-conforming
advertising signs and billboards shall be discontinued within five years from
the date of passage of this chapter and any such uses of land which become non-
conforming by reason of a subsequent amendment to this chapter or by reason of
being annexed to the village shall also be discontinued within five years from
the passage of the amendment or annexation ordinance.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 155.55 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A Board of Appeals is hereby established. The word BOARD, when used in
this section, shall be construed to mean the Board of Appeals. The Board shall
consist of seven members who shall be appointed by the President upon approval
by the Board of Trustees. The terms of office of the members of the Board shall
be five years; except that, the seven members first appointed shall serve
respectively for terms of one, two, three, four, five, six and seven years.
Thereafter, as each term expires, the appointment shall be for five years.
   (B)   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and
at such other times as the Board may determine. The Chairperson or, in his or
her absence, the acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each
member upon each question or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions.
The Board may adopt such rules of procedure as are not in conflict with this
chapter or the laws of the state.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.56 JURISDICTION.
   The Board shall have the power, and shall be charged with, the duty to hear
and decide:
   (A)   Appeals from any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Building Inspector under this chapter, as set forth in §
155.57 of this chapter;
   (B)   Requests for variations in the application of the regulations imposed
by this chapter, as set forth in §
155.58 of this chapter; and
   (C)   All matters specifically referred to it under the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.57 APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal may be taken to the Board by any person, firm or
corporation, or by any officer, department, board or bureau affected by a
decision of the Building Inspector relative to this chapter. Such appeal shall
be taken within such time as shall be prescribed, by the Board by general rule,
by filing with the Building Inspector and with the Board a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof. The Building Inspector shall forthwith transmit
to the Board all of the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken. The notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a receipt
from the Village Treasurer showing the payment of an appeal fee of $35, which
is hereby established as the required fee for each appeal taken under the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Board after the
notice of appeal has been filed with him or her that by reason of facts stated
in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to
life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise
than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board or by a court of
record on application and notice to the Building Inspector, and on due cause
shown.
   (C)   The Board shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing of
the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall render a
decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and
testify at the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or
attorney.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.58 VARIATIONS.
   (A)   When a property owner shows that a strict application of the terms of
this chapter relating to the use, construction or alteration of buildings or
structures, or to the use of land, imposes upon him or her practical
difficulties or particular hardship, then the Board may make such variations of
the strict application of the terms of this chapter as are in harmony with its
general purpose and intent when the Board is satisfied, under the evidence
heard before it, that a granting of such variation will not merely serve as a
convenience to the applicant, but is necessary to alleviate some demonstrable
hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant a variation in the following
instances:
      (1)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line
thereof divides a lot held in a single ownership at the time of passage of this
chapter;
      (2)   To interpret the provisions of this chapter in such a way as to
carry out the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the district map,
where the street layout on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on
the district map;
      (3)   To permit reconstruction of a non-conforming building otherwise
prohibited by §
155.43 of this chapter where such action would not constitute continuation of a
monopoly;
      (4)   To permit a variation in the yard regulations where there is an
exceptional or unusual physical condition of a lot, which condition is not
generally prevalent in the neighborhood and which condition when related to the
yard regulations of this chapter would prevent a reasonable or sensible
arrangement of buildings on the lot; and
      (5)   To waive or reduce the off-street parking requirements where it is
conclusively shown that the specific use of a building would make unnecessary
the parking spaces otherwise required by this chapter.
   (B)   A request for variation shall be made in writing and shall be filed
with the Chairperson of the Board. Each request shall specify the exact nature
of the variation requested and shall be accompanied by a receipt from the
Village Treasurer showing the payment of a fee of $35, which is hereby
established as the required fee for each request for variation filed under the
provisions of this section. The Board shall select a reasonable time and place
for the hearing on the request for variation and shall render a decision
without unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and testify at the hearing,
either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.59 NOTICES.
   All hearings of the Board shall comply with all requirements as to notice,
publication and procedure set forth in 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14. When five members
concur on a decision, the decision is binding and not subject to review.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.60 REVIEW.
   The decisions of the Board with regard to appeals from a decision of the
Building Inspector and the decisions of the Board of Trustees with regard to
variations shall only be subject to review pursuant to the provisions of the
state’s Administrative Review Act, 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than
$100 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this chapter, the village, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any proper action or proceedings in
the name of the village to prevent such unlawful erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, to
restrain, correct or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of said
building structure or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or
use in or about the premises.
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 152, passed - -)
CHAPTER 156: SWIMMING POOL SAFETY DEVICES
Section
   
156.01   Fence enclosures
   
156.02   Protective devices
   
156.03   Fence specifications
   
156.04   Permit required
   
156.05   Compliance; existing pools
§ 156.01 FENCE ENCLOSURES.
   Every person owning land within the village on which there is presently
situated an above or below ground swimming pool or who constructs such a
swimming pool after the effective date of this chapter either of which is
designed to contain 24 inches or more of water in depth at any point, shall
erect and maintain thereon an adequate fence either surrounding the property or
pool area, sufficient to make the body of water inaccessible to small children.
The fence, including gates thereon, shall be not less than four feet above the
underlying ground. All gates shall be self-closing and self-latching with
latches placed 54 inches from the bottom of the gate, if placed on the outside,
or minimum of three inches below the top of the gate, if placed on the side
facing the pool. The gate and barrier shall have no opening greater than one-
half inch within 18 inches of the latch release otherwise made inaccessible
from the outside to small children.
(Ord. 2025/06-17-01, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 156.02 PROTECTIVE DEVICES.
   (A)   The pool structure of above ground pools may serve as the enclosure
and, if less than four feet in height, a barrier mounted on top of the pool in
conformance with the specifications provided in §
156.01, shall be added to comply with the minimum four feet height requirement.
   (B)   If the property surrounding the above ground pool is not enclosed as
specified herein, the steps or ladder shall be enclosed with a fence of minimum
height of four feet constructed in conformance with the specifications provided
in §
156.01.
(Ord. 2025/06-17-01, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 156.03 FENCE SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Fences must be four feet above ground, measured on the side of the
fence which faces away from the pool. Solid fence shall have no indentations or
protrusions other than normal construction tolerances and masonry joints. The
tops of the fence made of horizontal and vertical members shall be constructed
with the following specifications:
      (1)   If the distance between the tops of the horizontal members is less
than 45 inches, the horizontal members shall be on the swimming pool side of
the fence. The spacing of the vertical members shall not exceed one and three-
fourths inches. If there are any decorative cutouts in the fence, the space
within the cutouts shall not exceed one and three-fourths inches.
      (2)   If the distance between the tops of the horizontal members is more
than 45 inches, the horizontal member shall be placed on the side of the fence
facing the pool. The spacing between vertical members shall not exceed four
inches. If there are any decorative cutouts in the fence, the space within the
cutouts shall not exceed one and three-fourths inches.
      (3)   For a chain link fence, the mesh size shall not exceed one and
three-fourths inches square unless slats, fastened at the top or bottom of the
fence, are used to reduce mesh openings to no more than one and three-fourths
inches.
      (4)   For a fence made up of diagonal members lattice work the maximum
opening in the lattice shall not exceed one and three-fourths inches.
   (B)   Natural barriers such as hedges shall not be considered as an adequate
fence enclosure as specified in §
156.01.
(Ord. 2025/06-17-01, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 156.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No swimming pool as herein defined shall be constructed after the effective
date of this chapter without first having obtained a construction permit
therefor on a form provided by the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2025/06-17-01, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 156.05 COMPLIANCE; EXISTING POOLS.
   Owners of land where there is presently situated an above or below ground
swimming pool shall have a period of one year from the effective date hereof to
comply with the terms of this chapter (see 65 ILCS 5/11-30-9).
(Ord. 2025/06-17-01, passed 6-17-2025)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES, CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ZONING VARIANCES AND CHANGES
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES, CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. Date   Description
No.       Passed
-         - -    Intergovernmental cooperation contract with the state’s Municipal League Risk
                 Management Association for membership approval
               (2007 Code, Ch. 1, Art. IV)
92-03     10-13- Franchise agreement with Alliance Communications Partners, L.P.
          1992
               (2007 Code, Ch. 8, Art. I)
07-01     2-20-  Franchise agreement with Cequal III Communications, LLC, d/b/a Cebridge
          2007   Connections for a cable television system
04/17/07- 4-17-  Intergovernmental agreement with the Decatur Sanitary District
1         2007
2007-11-  11-20- Intergovernmental agreement with the Decatur Sanitary District
20-1      2007
2007/12/  12-6-  Intergovernmental agreement with the Decatur Sanitary District
06-1      2007
07/15/08- 7-15-  Contract for garbage, recyclable and compost collection
1         2008
2010/16/  11-16- Supporting participation in the Decatur Urbanized Area Transportation Study
11-R1     2010   (DUATS)
08/16/11- 8-16-  Contract for garbage, recyclable and compost collection
1         2011
08/16/11- 8-16-  Contract for garbage, recyclable and compost collection
2         2011
2012/01/  1-17-  Cash rent farm lease
17-2      2012
–       8-20-  Intergovernmental agreement between the village and the county for an animal
          2013   control program
2014/04/  4-15-  Cast rent farm lease
15-1      2014
2014/04/  4-15-  Contract for garbage, recyclable and compost collection
15-2      2014
2014-08-  8-19-  Intergovernmental agreement with the Emergency Telephone System Board
19-2      2014
2014-11-  11-25- Intergovernmental agreement with the county’s Emergency Telephone System Board
25-1      2014
2015/11/  11-17- Contract with Motorola Solutions, Inc.
17-2      2015
2015/11/  11-17- Cash rent farm lease
17-3      2015
2016/05/  5-17-  Cash rent farm lease
17-1      2016
2016/05/  5-17-  Franchise renewal and extension agreement with Ameren Illinois for a gas
17-3      2016   utility system
2017/03/  3-13-  Contract for garbage, recyclable and compost collection
21-1      2017
20170613- 6-13-  Franchise agreement with Telecommunications Management, LLC, d/b/a New Wave
2         2017   Communications for a cable television system
20170613- 6-13-  Intergovernmental agreement establishing the Central Illinois Regions Dispatch
3         2017   Center
2017/09/  9-19-  Intergovernmental agreement between the village and the state’s Municipal
19-1      2017   League Risk Management Association
2017/12/  12-19- Intergovernmental agreement between the village and the Argenta-Oreana Public
19-1      2017   Library
2017/12/  12-19- Intergovernmental agreement between the village and USIC Locating Services
19-2      2017
20180123- 1-23-  Contract between the village and American Legal Publishing Corporation
2         2018
2024-09-  - -    Adoption of the Macon County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
17-3
                
 
TABLE II: ZONING VARIANCES AND CHANGES
 
Ord./Res. No.   Date Passed Description
2011/11/29-02   11-29-2011  Zoning variance for 308 West Belle Street
2015/05/19-4    5-19-2015   Zoning variance for the Shugart property
2020/06-02-1  6-2-2020    Zoning variance for the property located at the
                            northeast corner of Route 48 and Burgess Street
                           
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2010/02/16-4  2-16-2010   Annexing certain territory
2015-08-18-1  8-18-2015   Annexing certain territory
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 2007 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                          Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                           10.04
5 ILCS 120/1                          30.29
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                  30.26
5 ILCS 120/2.02                       30.27;
                                      30.35
5 ILCS 120/2.03                       30.27
5 ILCS 120/2.06                       30.29
5 ILCS 140/1.1 et seq.                35.01
5 ILCS 140/7                          35.10
5 ILCS 140/9.5                        35.11
5 ILCS 140/10                         35.11
5 ILCS 140/11                         35.11
5 ILCS 270/1                          32.007
5 ILCS 430/5-65                       33.59
5 ILCS 430/15-10                      33.58
10 ILCS                               32.002
10 ILCS 5/9-1 et seq.                 33.37
25 ILCS 1070/1 et seq.                33.35
30 ILCS 235/6                         32.082
35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.                 111.01
35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.                 111.01
35 ILCS 130/1 et seq.                 111.01
35 ILCS 630                           37.53
40 ILCS 5/7-171 et seq.               37.05
40 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.              37.04
50 ILCS 105/2                         30.06;
                                      32.003
50 ILCS 451                           37.22
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.                 34.14
                                      30.25;
65 ILCS                               52.111;
                                      154.002
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                       10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2[5]                    10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                       10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-3                       10.01;
                                      10.09
65 ILCS 5/1-2-6                       10.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.1                     10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-4                       32.047
65 ILCS 5/1-2-5                       32.047
                                      70.01;
65 ILCS 5/1-3-2                       130.01;
                                      130.02
65 ILCS 5/2-2-12                      32.059;
                                      36.42
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5                    32.006
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6                    32.004
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-10                   32.002
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-15                   32.002
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30                   32.004;
                                      32.007
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35                   32.004;
                                      32.054
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40                   32.057
                                      32.058;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45                   32.075;
                                      32.078
                                      30.03;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50                   32.003;
                                      32.005
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(B)                30.28;
                                      32.046
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(D)                30.25
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5                    30.01;
                                      32.045
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10                   30.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-15                   32.003
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20                   32.004;
                                      32.051
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25                   32.004
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5                    30.25
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-15                   30.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90                   32.045
                                      30.06;
                                      32.030;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5                    32.032;
                                      32.045;
                                      32.071
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10                   32.058
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5                    30.08
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10                   30.06
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-20                   30.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30                   30.05
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35                   30.02
                                      32.072;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40                   32.073;
                                      32.077
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45                   32.073
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50                   32.082
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55                   32.074
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65                   32.080
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-70                   32.080
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85                   32.076
                                      32.047;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90                   32.048;
                                      32.059
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-95                   32.058
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110                  32.047;
                                      32.052
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-115                  32.081
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-135                  32.003
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15                   30.34
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20                   30.31;
                                      30.32
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25                   30.26;
                                      30.27
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-35                   30.29
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40                   30.50
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45                   30.50
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50                   30.51
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55                   30.52
65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5                    30.12
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5                    32.001
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10                   32.001
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15                   32.001
65 ILCS 5/3/1-50-15(b)                32.011
65 ILCS 5/3-7-6                       32.031
65 ILCS 5/8-2-9-1                     32.003
65 ILCS 5/8-3-1                       37.01
65 ILCS 5/8-8-8                       37.03
65 ILCS 5/8-9-1                       36.42
65 ILCS 5/8-9-2                       36.42
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2                      37.53
65 ILCS 5/8-11-17                     37.50;
                                      37.53
                                      70.01;
65 ILCS 5/11-1-1                      130.02;
                                      130.15
65 ILCS 5/11-1-2                      34.13
65 ILCS 5/11-1-3                      37.02
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6                      34.30
                                      130.16;
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2                      130.17;
                                      130.31
65 ILCS 5/11-5-3                      130.23
65 ILCS 5/11-8-4                      130.26
65 ILCS 5/11-11.1-1                   93.99
65 ILCS 5/11-12                       31.09
65 ILCS 5/11-12-4 through 5/11-12-12  31.01
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12                    31.06
65 ILCS 5/11-13-14                    155.04;
                                      155.59
65 ILCS 5/11-19-1 et seq.             51.12
65 ILCS 5/11-30-9                     156.05
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1                     92.53
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.01                  92.53
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2                     92.53
65 ILCS 5/11-40-1                     71.31
65 ILCS 5/11-42-5                     113.10;
                                      113.35
65 ILCS 5/11-60-2                     92.21
65 ILCS 5/11-80-1 et seq.             130.56
65 ILCS 5/11-80-1 through 5/11-80-23  152.057
65 ILCS 5/11-80-2                     152.109
                                      152.010;
65 ILCS 5/11-80-3                     152.012;
                                      152.013
65 ILCS 5/11-80-7                     152.072;
                                      152.091
65 ILCS 5/11-80-11                    152.071
65 ILCS 5/11-80-13                    152.070
65 ILCS 5/11-80-17                    152.007
65 ILCS 5/11-80-23                    37.07
65 ILCS 11/147                        53.01
75 ILCS 5/4-1                         32.003
210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.                151.02;
                                      151.25
210 ILCS 115/2.1                      151.01
210 ILCS 115/2.2                      151.01
210 ILCS 115/2.3                      151.01
210 ILCS 115/2.4                      151.01
210 ILCS 115/2.5                      151.01
210 ILCS 115/2.7                      151.01
210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                151.01
220 ILCS 5/2-202                      37.53
220 ILCS 5/9-221                      37.50
220 ILCS 5/9-222                      37.50
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1                    37.50
225 ILCS 320/3                        52.076
225 ILCS 460/0.01 et sq.              113.09
230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.              112.018
230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.                 112.018
235 ILCS                              112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.02                     112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.03                     112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.04                     112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.05                     112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.06                     112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.17                     112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.17.1                   112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.18                     112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.21                     112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.22                     112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.23                     112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.24                     112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.25                     112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.30                     112.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.34                     112.001
                                      112.015;
                                      112.019;
                                      112.022;
235 ILCS 5/4-1                        112.024;
                                      112.035;
                                      112.046;
                                      112.047;
                                      112.049
235 ILCS 5/4-2                        30.10
235 ILCS 5/4-4                        112.055;
                                      112.082
235 ILCS 5/4-5                        112.017
235 ILCS 5/6-2                        112.018
235 ILCS 5/6-5                        112.057
235 ILCS 5/6-10                       112.056
235 ILCS 5/6-12                       112.037
235 ILCS 5/6-15                       112.057
                                      112.048;
                                      112.058;
235 ILCS 5/6-16                       112.059;
                                      112.060;
                                      112.061;
                                      112.062
235 ILCS 5/6-17                       112.057
                                      112.050;
235 ILCS 5/6-20                       112.051;
                                      112.052;
                                      112.054
235 ILCS 5/6-22                       112.057
235 ILCS 5/6-24                       112.023
235 ILCS 5/7-1                        112.016
235 ILCS 5/7-5                        112.084
235 ILCS 5/7-7                        112.083
                                      112.085;
235 ILCS 5/7-9                        112.086;
                                      112.087
235 ILCS 5/7-13                       112.081
235 ILCS 5/7-14                       112.036
235 ILCS 5/10-2                       112.075
235 ILCS 5/10-3                       112.076
235 ILCS 5/10-4                       112.077
235 ILCS 5/10-5                       112.078
235 ILCS 5/10-6                       112.079
235 ILCS 5/10-7                       112.080
410 ILCS 25/1 et seq.                 152.071
410 ILCS 650/1 et seq.                112.044
415 ILCS 5/4(e)                       52.076
415 ILCS 5/9(b)                       94.20
425 ILCS 35/1                         94.01
425 ILCS 60/1 through 60/4            151.07
430 ILCS 16/1 et seq.                 152.057
430 ILCS 115/1 et seq.                151.03
625 ILCS                              Ch. 70
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.              70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-111.8                    71.02
625 ILCS 5/1-188                      10.02
625 ILCS 5/7-601 et seq.              73.02
625 ILCS 5/11-100 et seq.             71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-203                     70.02
625 ILCS 5/11-207                     71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-208                     71.16
625 ILCS 5/11-208.1                   71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-208.2                   71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-209.1                   71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-302                     71.17;
                                      71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-303                     71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-304                     71.19
625 ILCS 5/11-310(f)                  71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-313                     71.31;
                                      71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-401 through 11-416      71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-500 through 11-502      71.30;
                                      73.99
625 ILCS 5/11-505                     71.33
625 ILCS 5/11-602                     71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-603                     71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-604                     71.30 
625 ILCS 5/11-605                     71.31
625 ILCS 5/11-606(b)                  71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-608                     71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-904(a)                  71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-1006                    113.09
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1 et seq.          71.49
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2                  71.49
625 ILCS 5/11-1302                    71.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1416(a)                 71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-1422                    71.30
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1                  73.01
625 ILCS 5/12-100 et seq.             71.01
625 ILCS 5/12-201                     73.02
625 ILCS 5/12-602                     71.01
625 ILCS 5/12-605.1                   71.01
625 ILCS 5/12-605.2                   71.01
625 ILCS 5/12-709                     73.02
720 ILCS                              130.02
720 ILCS 5/2-1 through 5/2-11         130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-13 through 5/2-16        130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-19                       130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-20                       130.01
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(12) 112.018
720 ILCS 5/28-3                       112.018
720 ILCS 5/32-9                       130.30
720 ILCS 675/1                        130.19
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.              33.44;
                                      155.60
740 ILCS 174/15(a)                    33.58
740 ILCS 174/15(b)                    33.58
745 ILCS 10/2-201 et seq.             32.008
775 ILCS 5/6-101                      33.58
805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.               112.001;
                                      112.018
820 ILCS 130                          36.43
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO 2007 CODE
2007 Code 2019 Code
2007 Code       2019 Code
1-1-1           10.01
1-1-2           10.01
1-1-3           10.09
1-1-4           10.19
1-1-5           10.20
1-1-8           10.13
1-1-9           10.13
1-1-10          10.13
1-1-12          10.18
1-1-16          10.02
1-1-20          10.99
1-1-21          10.99
1-1-22          10.99
1-1-23          10.99
1-1-24          10.99
1-2-1           30.25
1-2-2           30.26
1-2-3           30.27
1-2-4           30.28
1-2-5           30.29
1-2-6           30.30
1-2-7           30.31
1-2-8           30.32
1-2-9           30.33
1-2-11          30.34
1-2-12          30.35
1-2-14          30.50
1-2-15          30.51
1-2-16          30.52
1-2-18          32.059
1-2-19          32.002
1-2-20          32.003
1-2-21          32.004
1-2-22          32.005
1-2-23          32.006
1-2-24          32.007
1-2-25          32.008
1-2-26          36.30—
                36.44
1-2-27          32.001
1-2-28          32.009
1-2-29          32.010
1-2-30          32.011
1-2-31          32.012
1-2-32          32.013
1-2-33          32.014
1-2-34          32.015
1-2-35          32.016
1-2-40          30.01
1-2-41          30.02
1-2-42          30.03
1-2-43          30.04
1-2-45          30.05
1-2-46          30.06
1-2-47          30.06
1-2-48          30.06
1-2-49          30.07
1-2-50          30.08
1-2-51          30.09
1-2-52          30.10
1-2-53          30.11
1-2-54          30.12
1-2-56          32.045
1-2-57          32.046
1-2-58          32.047
1-2-59          32.048
1-2-60          32.049
1-2-61          32.050
1-2-62          32.050
1-2-63          32.051
1-2-64          32.052
1-2-65          32.053
1-2-66          32.054
1-2-67          32.055
1-2-68          32.056
1-2-69          32.057
1-2-70          32.058
1-2-72          32.070
1-2-73          32.071
1-2-74          32.072
1-2-75          32.073
1-2-76          32.074
1-2-77          32.075
1-2-78          32.076
1-2-79          32.077
1-2-80          32.078
1-2-81          32.079
1-2-82          32.080
1-2-83          32.081
1-2-84          32.082
1-2-88          32.030
1-2-89          32.030
1-2-94          32.031
1-2-95          32.031
1-2-98          32.032
1-2-99          32.032
1-2-100         32.032
1-2-101         32.032
1-2-104         32.033
1-2-105         32.033
1-2-106         32.033
1-2-107         32.033
1-2-108         32.033
1-2-111         32.034
1-2-112         32.034
1-3-1           32.001
1, Art. IV      TSO Table I
1-5-1           33.35
1-5-2           33.36
1-5-3           33.37
1-5-4           33.38
1-5-5           33.39
1-5-6           33.40
1-5-7           33.41
1-5-8           33.41
1-5-9           33.41
1-5-10          33.42
1-5-11          33.43;
                33.99
1-5-12          33.44
1-5-14          33.45
1-6-1           36.01
1-6-2           36.02
1-6-3           36.03
1-6-4           36.04
1-6-5           36.05
1-6-6           36.06
1-6-7           36.07
1-6-8           36.08
1-6-9           36.09 
1-6-10          36.10
1-6-11          36.11
1-6-12          36.12
1-6-13          36.13
1-6-14          36.14
1-6-15          36.15
1-6-16          36.16
4-1-1           31.01
4-1-2           31.02
4-1-3           31.03
4-1-4           31.04
4-1-5           31.05
4-1-6           31.06
4-1-7           31.07
4-1-8           31.08
4-1-9           31.09
6-1-1           150.01
6-1-2           150.02
6-1-3           150.03
6-1-4           150.04
6-1-5           150.05 
6-1-6           150.06
6-1-7           150.07
6-1-8           150.08
7-1-1           111.01
7-1-2           111.02
7-1-3           111.03
7-1-4           111.04
7-1-5           111.05
7-1-6           111.06
7-1-7           111.07
7-1-8           111.08
7-1-9           111.09
7-1-10          111.10
7-1-12          111.11
7-1-13          111.12
7-1-14          111.13
7-1-15          111.14
7-1-16          111.15
7-2-1           113.01
7-2-2           113.02
7-2-3           113.03
7-2-4           113.04
7-2-5           113.05
7-2-6           113.06
7-2-7           113.07
7-2-8           113.08
7-2-10          113.09
7-2-11          113.10
7-3-1           113.25
7-3-2           113.26
7-3-3           113.27
7-3-4           113.28
7-3-5           113.29
7-3-6           113.30
7-3-7           113.31
7-3-8           113.32
7-3-9           113.33
7-3-10          113.34
7-3-11          113.35
7-4-1           110.01
7-4-2           110.02
7-4-3           110.03
7-4-4           110.04
7-4-5           110.05
7-4-6           110.06
7-4-7           110.99
8, Art. I       TSO Table I
12-1-1          33.15
12-1-2          33.16
12-1-3          33.17
12-1-4          33.18
12-1-5          33.19
12-1-6          33.20
12-1-7          33.21
12-1-8          33.22
12-1-9          33.23
13-1-1          93.01
13-1-2          93.02
13-1-3          93.03
13-1-4          93.04
13-1-5          93.05
13-1-6          93.06
13-1-7          93.07
13-1-8          93.08
13-1-9          93.08
13-1-10         93.09
13-1-11         93.10
13-1-12         93.11
13-1-13         93.07
13-1-14         93.06
13-1-15         93.08
13-1-16         93.09
13-1-17         93.12
13-1-18         93.12
13-1-19         93.13
13-1-20         93.14
13-1-21         93.25
13-1-22         93.26
13-1-23         93.27
13-1-24         93.28
13-1-25         93.29
13-1-26         93.99
15-1-1          35.01
15-1-2          35.02
15-1-3          35.03
15-1-4          35.04
15-1-5          35.05
15-1-6          35.06
15-1-7          35.07
15-1-8          35.08
15-1-9          35.09
15-1-10         35.10
15-1-11         35.11
15-1-12         35.12
15-1-13         35.13
15-1-14         35.14
15-1-15         35.15
16-1-1          51.01
16-1-2          51.02
16-1-3          51.03
16-1-4          51.04
16-1-5          51.05
16-1-6          51.06
16-1-7          51.07
16-1-8          51.08
16-1-9          51.09
16-1-10         51.10
16-1-11         51.11
16-1-12         51.12
21-1-1          112.001
21-2-1          112.015
21-2-2          112.016
21-2-3          112.017
21-2-4          112.018
21-2-5          112.019
21-2-6          112.020
21-2-7          112.021
21-2-8          112.022
21-2-9          112.023
21-2-10         112.024
21-3-1          112.035
21-3-2          112.036
21-3-3          112.037
21-3-4          112.038
21-3-5          112.039
21-3-6          112.040
21-3-7          112.041
21-3-8          112.042
21-3-10         112.043
21-3-11         112.044
21-3-12         112.045
21-3-13         112.046
21-3-14         112.047
21-3-16         112.048
21-3-17         112.049
21-3-18         112.050
21-3-19         112.051
21-3-20         112.052
21-3-21         112.053
21-3-22         112.054
21-3-23         112.055
21-3-24         112.056
21-3-25         112.057
21-3-26         112.058
21-3-27         112.059
21-3-28         112.060
21-3-29         112.061
21-3-30         112.062
21-4-1          112.075
21-4-2          112.076
21-4-3          112.077
21-4-4          112.078
21-4-5          112.079
21-4-6          112.080
21-4-7          112.081
21-4-8          112.082
21-4-9          112.083
21-4-10         112.084;
                112.999
21-4-11         112.085
21-4-12         112.086
21-4-13         112.087
23-1-1          151.01
23-1-2          151.02
23-1-3          151.03
23-1-4          151.04
23-1-5          151.05
23-1-6          151.06
23-1-7          151.07
23-1-8          151.08
23-1-9          151.09
23-1-10         151.10
23-2-1          151.25
23-2-2          151.26
23-2-3          151.27
23-2-4          151.28 
23-2-5          151.29
23-2-6          151.30
23-2-7          151.28 
23-2-10         151.31
23-2-11         151.32
23-2-12         151.33
23-2-13         151.34
23-2-17         151.35
23-2-18         151.36
23-2-21         151.37 
24-1-1          70.01
24-2-1          70.02
24-2-2          70.03
24-2-3          70.04
24-2-4          70.05
24-2-5          70.06
24-3-1          71.15
24-3-2          71.16
24-3-3          71.17
24-3-4          71.18
24-3-5          71.19
24-4-1          71.30
24-4-2          71.31
24-4-3          71.32
24-4-4          71.33
24-4-5          71.33
24-4-6          71.33
24-4-7          71.33
24-5-1          71.01
24-5-2          71.01
24-6-1          71.45
24-6-2          71.46
24-6-3          71.47
24-6-4          71.48
24-6-5          71.99
24-6-6          71.49
24-6-7          71.50
24-6-8          71.51
24-6-9          Ch. 75, Schd. I
24-7-1          72.01
24-7-2          72.02
24-7-3          72.03
24-7-4          72.04
24-7-5          72.05
24-7-6          72.06
24-7-7          72.07
24, Schd. A     Ch. 74, Schd. I
24, Schd. C     Ch. 74, Schd. II
24, Schd. H     Ch. 75, Schd. II
27-1-1          130.01
27-1-2          130.02
27-2-1          130.15
27-2-3          130.16
27-2-4          130.17
27-2-5          130.18
27-2-6          130.19
27-2-7          130.19
27-2-8          130.20
27-2-9          130.21
27-2-10         130.22
27-2-11         130.23
27-2-13         130.24
27-2-14         130.25
27-2-15         130.26
27-2-16         130.27
27-3-1          130.28
27-3-2          130.29
27-3-3          130.30
27-4-1          130.45
27-4-2          130.46
27-4-3          130.47
27-4-4          130.48
27-4-5          130.49
27-4-6          130.50
27-4-7          130.51
27-4-8          130.51
27-4-9          130.52
27-4-10         130.53
27-4-11         130.53
27-4-12         130.54
27-4-13         130.55
27-4-14         130.56
27-5-1          130.31
27-5-2          130.31
27-6-1          94.20
27-6-2          94.21
27-6-3          94.22
28-1-1          91.01
28-1-2          91.02;
                91.18
28-1-3          91.03
28-1-4          91.04
28-1-5          91.05
28-1-6          91.06
28-1-7          91.06
28-1-8          91.07
28-1-9          91.08
28-1-10         91.09
28-1-11         91.10
28-1-12         91.11
28-1-13         91.12
28-1-14         91.13
28-1-15         91.14
28-1-16         91.15
28-1-17         91.16
28-1-18         91.07
28-1-19         91.17
28-1-21         91.19
28-1-22         91.19
28-1-23         91.19
28-1-24         91.13
28-1-25         91.20
28-1-26         91.21
30-1-1          34.25
30-1-2          34.26
30-1-3          34.27
30-1-4          34.28
30-1-5          34.29
30-1-6          34.30
30-2-1          34.01
30-2-2          34.02
30-2-3          34.02
30-2-4          34.03
30-2-5          34.04
30-2-6          34.05
30-2-7          34.06
30-2-8          34.07
30-2-10         34.08
30-2-11         34.09
30-2-12         34.10
30-2-13         34.11
30-2-14         34.12
30-2-15         34.13
30-3-1          94.01
30-3-2          94.02
30-3-4          94.04
30-3-5          94.05
30-3-6          94.03
30-3-7          94.06
30-3-8          94.99
33-1-1          152.001
33-1-2          152.001
33-2-1          152.002
33-2-2          152.003
33-2-3          152.004
33-2-4          152.005
33-2-5          152.006
33-2-6          152.007
33-2-7          152.008
33-2-8          152.009
33-2-9          152.010
33-2-10         152.011
33-2-11         152.012
33-2-12         152.013
33-2-13         152.014
33-2-14         152.015
33-2-15         152.016
33-2-16         152.017
33-2-17         152.018
33-2-18         152.019
33-3-1          153.01
33-3-2          153.02
33-3-3          153.03
33-3-4          153.04
33-3-5          153.05
33-3-6          153.06
33-3-7          153.07
33-3-8          153.08
33-4-1          152.030
33-4-2          152.030
33-4-3          152.031
33-4-4          152.032
33-4-5          152.032
33-4-6          152.033
33-4-7          152.034
33-4-8          152.035
33-4-9          152.036
33-4-10         152.037
33-4-11         152.038
33-4-12         152.039
33-4-13         152.040
33-4-14         152.041
33-4-15         152.042
33-4-16         152.043
33-4-17         152.044
33-4-18         152.045
33-4-19         152.046
33-4-20         152.047
33-4-21         152.048
33-4-22         152.049
33-4-23         152.050
33-4-24         152.051
33-4-25         152.051
33-4-26         152.052
33-4-27         152.053
33-4-28         152.054
33-4-29         152.055
33-4-30         152.056
33-4-31         152.057
33-5-1          152.070
33-5-2          152.071
33-5-3          152.072
33-6-1          152.085
33-6-2          152.086
33-6-3          152.086
33-6-4          152.087
33-6-5          152.088
33-6-6          152.089
33-6-7          152.090
33-6-8          152.091
33-7-1          152.105
33-7-2          152.105
33-7-3          152.106
33-7-4          152.107
33-7-5          152.108
33-7-6          152.109
34-1-1          154.001
34-1-2          154.002
34-1-3          154.003
34-1-4          154.004
34-1-5          154.005
34-1-6          154.006
34-1-7          154.007
34-1-8          154.008 
34-2-1          154.009
34-3-1          154.040
34-3-2          154.041
34-3-3          154.042
34-3-4          154.043
34-3-5          154.044
34-3-6          154.045
34-3-7          154.046
34-3-8          154.047
34-3-9          154.048
34-4-1          154.060
34-4-2          154.061;
                154.062
34-4-3          154.063
34-5-1          154.075
34-5-2          154.076
34-5-3          154.077
34-5-4          154.078
34-5-5          154.079
34-5-6          154.080
34-5-7          154.081
34-6-1          154.095
34-6-2          154.096
34-6-3          154.097
34-6-4          154.139
34-6-5          154.115
34-6-6          154.116
34-6-7          154.117
34-6-8          154.118
34-6-9          154.119
34-6-10         154.120
34-6-11         154.121
34-6-13         154.098 
34-6-14         154.098 
34-6-15         154.098 
34-6-16         154.098 
34-6-18         154.099
34-6-19         154.099
34-6-21         154.100
34-6-22         154.100
34-6-24         154.100
34-6-25         154.100
34-6-26         154.100
34-6-27         154.100
34-6-28         154.100
34-6-30         154.101
34-6-31         154.102
34-6-32         154.102
34-6-34         154.103
34-6-36         154.135
34-6-37         154.136
34-6-38         154.137
34-6-39         154.138
34-6-41         154.140
34-6-42         154.141
34-6-43         154.142
34-6-44         154.143
34-6-45         154.144
34-6-46         154.145
34-7-1          154.160
34-7-2          154.161
34-7-3          154.162
34-7-4          154.163
34-7-5          154.164
34-7-6          154.165
34-7-7          154.166
34-7-8          154.167
34-7-9          154.168
34-7-10         154.169
34-7-11         154.170
34-7-12         154.171
34-7-13         154.172
34-8-1          154.185
34-8-2          154.186
34-8-3          154.187
34-8-4          154.188
34-8-5          154.189
34-9-1          154.020
34-9-2          154.999
34-9-3          154.021
34-9-4          154.022
34-9-5          154.023
34, Exhibit D   154.081
34, Table V-I   154.024
34, Table VI-I  154.122
34, Table VII-I 154.160
36-1-1          37.01
36-1-2          37.02
36-1-3          37.03
36-1-4          37.04
36-1-5          37.05
36-1-6          37.06
36-1-7          37.07
36-2-1          37.50
36-2-2          37.51
36-2-3          37.52
36-2-4          37.53
36-2-5          37.54
36-2-6          37.55
36-2-7          37.56
36-2-8          37.57
36-2-11         37.58
36-3-1          37.20
36-3-2          37.21
36-3-3          37.22
36-3-4          37.23
36-3-5          37.24
36-3-6          37.25
36-3-7          37.26
36-3-8          37.27
36-3-9          37.28 
36-3-10         37.29
36-3-11         37.30
36-3-12         37.31
36-3-13         37.32
36-3-14         37.33
36-3-15         37.34
36-3-16         37.35
36-3-17         37.36
36-3-18         37.37
38-1-1          52.001
38-1-2          52.002
38-1-3          52.003
38-1-4          52.003
38-2-1          50.01
38-2-2          50.02
38-2-3          50.03
38-2-4          50.04
38-2-5          50.05
38-2-6          50.06
38-2-7          50.07
38-3-1          52.020
38-3-2          52.021
38-3-3          52.039
38-3-4          52.023
38-3-5          52.024
38-3-6          52.025
38-3-7          52.026
38-3-8          52.027
38-3-9          52.028
38-3-10         52.029
38-3-11         52.030
38-3-12         52.031
38-3-13         52.032
38-3-14         52.033
38-3-15         52.034
38-3-16         52.035
38-3-17         52.036
38-3-18         52.037
38-3-19         52.038
38-3-21         52.050
38-3-22         52.051
38-3-23         52.052
38-3-24         52.053
38-3-25         52.054
38-3-26         52.055
38-3-31         52.070
38-3-32         52.071
38-3-33         52.072
38-3-34         52.073
38-3-35         52.074
38-3-36         52.075
38-3-37         52.076
38-3-38         52.077
38-3-39         52.078
38-3-40         52.079
38-3-41         52.080
38-3-42         52.081
38-3-43         52.082
38-3-53         52.095
38-3-54         52.096
38-3-55         52.097
38-3-56         52.098
38-3-57         52.099
38-4-1          52.110
38-4-2          52.111
38-4-3          52.112
38-4-4          52.113
38-4-10         52.114
38-4-11         52.115
38-4-12         52.116
                
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.      Date Passed Code Section
2010/16/11-R1 11-16-2010  TSO Table I
2014/06/17-R1 6-17-2014   32.045
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed Code Section
–             - -         TSO Table I
                            155.01—
                            155.05;
                            155.20—
                            155.26;
68              - -         155.40—
                            155.43;
                            155.55—
                            155.60;
                            155.99
                            155.01—
                            155.05;
                            155.20—
                            155.26;
152             - -         155.40—
                            155.43;
                            155.55—
                            155.60;
                            155.99
03-05           - -         94.01—
                            94.06
04-13           - -         30.33
04-15           - -         30.27
                            110.03;
06/19/07-1      - -         150.02;
                            150.07;
                            150.08
06/19/0-7-1     - -         130.27
89-01           1-17-1989   150.02
92-03           10-13-1992  TSO Table I
95-04           7-11-1995   52.115
97-03           8-12-1997   33.23
98-08           1-12-1999   37.58
07-01           2-20-2007   TSO Table I
04/17/07-1      4-17-2007   TSO Table I
2007-11-20-1    11-20-2007  TSO Table I
2007/12/06-1    12-6-2007   TSO Table I
2008-06/17-1    6-17-2008   Ch. 75, Schd. III
07/15/08-1      7-15-2008   TSO Table I
2010/02/16-4    2-16-2010   TSO Table III
                            53.01—
2011-04-19-01   4-19-2011   53.12;
                            53.99
-               8-16-2011   30.33
08/16/11-1      8-16-2011   TSO Table I
08/16/11-2      8-16-2011   TSO Table I
2011-08-16-1    8-16-2011   36.44
2011/11/29-02   11-29-2011  TSO Table II
2012/01/17-1    1-17-2012   30.33
2012/01/17-2    1-17-2012   TSO Table I
2011-02-21-2    2-21-2012   155.40
                            90.01;
–             8-20-2013   90.02;
                            TSO Table I
2014/04/15-1    4-15-2014   TSO Table I
2014/04/15-2    4-15-2014   TSO Table I
2014/05/230-1   5-20-2014   53.13
2014-08-19-2    8-19-2014   TSO Table I
2014-11-25-1    11-25-2014  TSO Table I
2015-05-19-2    5-19-2015   114.01—
                            114.06
2015-05-19-3    5-19-2015   112.020
2015/05/19-4    5-19-2015   TSO Table II
2015-06-16-1    6-16-2015   34.14
2015/07/21-1    7-21-2015   Ch. 74, Schd. III
2015-08-18-1    8-18-2015   TSO Table III
2015/08/18-2    8-18-2015   52.037
2015/11/17-2    11-17-2015  TSO Table I
2015/11/17-3    11-17-2015  TSO Table I
2016/05/17-1    5-17-2016   TSO Table I
2016/05/17-2    5-17-2016   70.02
2016/05/17-3    5-17-2016   TSO Table I
06/21/2016-2    6-21-2016   32.001
07/19/2016-1    7-19-2016   32.001
2016/07/19-2    7-19-2016   52.115
                            73.01;
20160920-1      9-20-2016   73.02;
                            73.99
2016/11/15-2    11-15-2016  95.01
2017-01-17-1    1-17-2017   52.114
2017/03/21-1    3-13-2017   TSO Table I
06/13/2017-1    6-13-2017   33.01
20170613-2      6-13-2017   TSO Table I
20170613-3      6-13-2017   TSO Table I
2017/09/19-1    9-19-2017   TSO Table I
2017/12/19-1    12-19-2017  TSO Table I
2017/12-19-2    12-19-2017  TSO Table I
2017/12/19-5    12-19-2017  33.55—
                            33.60
20180123-2      1-23-2018   TSO Table I
2018/10-16-1    10-16-2018  52.115
2019-12-17-2    12-17-2019  115.01—
                            115.04
2020/05-19-1    5-19-2020   73.01;
                            73.02
2020/06-02-1  6-2-2020    TSO Table II
2020/08-18-1  8-18-2020   71.48
2021/01-19-02   1-19-2021   52.115,
                            53.13
2022/03-22-1    3-22-2022   51.13
2024/11/19-1    11-19-2024  52.115
2024-09-17-3    - -         TSO Table I
2025/04-15-01   4-15-2025   95.01
2025/06-17-02   6-17-2025   156.01—
                            156.05
                            113.02;
                            113.04;
2025/06-17-02   6-17-2025   113.05;
                            113.07;
                            113.10
                           
 
 
Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the
Village of Oreana beginning in 2020. The table includes links to the ordinances
(as maintained in PDF format) and to the code sections affected (where
applicable). For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to 2020,
please contact the Village of Oreana.
 
Ordinances that amend the Municipal Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out and are not available in a PDF format for viewing.
 
Jump to:
2020 Ordinances
2021 Ordinances
2022 Ordinances
2023 Ordinances

2024 Ordinances

2025 Ordinances
2020 Ordinances
 
Ord. No.     Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                         Adding Chapter re: Chicken and Rabbit Husbandry
2016-11-15-2 11-15-2016   
                         Sections Affected:
                         95.01
                         Municipal Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
2019-12-17-2 12-17-2019   
                         Sections Affected:
                         115.01—115.04
                         Amending Chapter 73: Recreational Vehicles
2020-05-19-1 5-20-2020    
                         Sections Affected:
                         73.01; 73.02
2020-06-02-1 6-2-2020    Approving a variance
2020-06-02-2 6-2-2020    Approving a minor subdivision
                         Amending Traffic Code
2020-08-18-1 8-18-2020    
                         Sections Affected:
                         71.48
 
 
2021 Ordinances
 
Ord. No.     Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                         Amending Water and Sewer Rates
2021-01-19-2 1-19-2021    
                         Sections Affected:
                         52.115; 53.13
 
 
2022 Ordinances
 
Ord. No.      Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                          Amending Ch. 51: Garbage
2022-03-22-01 3-22-2022    
                          Sections Affected:
                          Adding 53.13
                         
                         
 
 
2023 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
None                 
 
 
2024 Ordinances
 
Ord. No.       Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                           Amending Title V: Public Works, Chapter 52, Water
2024-11-19-1   11-19-2024   
                           Sections Affected:
                           52.115
R-2024-09-17-3 09-17-2024  Resolution authorizing the adoption of the Macon
                           County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan.
                           Resolution establishing the minimum cost value
R-2024-10-15-1 10-15-2024  (Capitalization amount) that requires disclosure of
                           a capitalization policy.
 
 
2025 Ordinances
 
Ord. No.      Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                          Replacing and amending Chapter 95: Animals.
2025-04-15-01 04-15-2025   
                          Sections Affected:
                          95.01(A), 95.01(K)
2025-04-15-02 04-15-2025  Amending Ordinance 2024-05-21-2
2025-06-17-01 06-17-2025  Amending Title IX, adding Chapter 156: Swimming Pool
                          Safety Devices
                          Amending Chapter 113: Solicitors
2025-06-17-02 06-17-2025   
                          Sections Affected:
                          113.02, 113.04, 113.05, 113.07, 113.10
                         
 
 
