MUNICIPAL CODE
of
PINGREE GROVE, ILLINOIS
2011
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-O-22, passed 9-15-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This Municipal Code of the Village of Pingree Grove, as supplemented,
contains ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-O-22, passed September
15, 2025. Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the
provisions of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent
therewith. Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any
particular provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
PINGREE GROVE MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-1-1: Code Adoption
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Copies Of Code
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the village board of trustees, this municipal code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official municipal code of
Pingree Grove. This municipal code of ordinances shall be known and cited as
the VILLAGE OF PINGREE GROVE MUNICIPAL CODE and is hereby published by
authority of the board of trustees and shall be supplemented to incorporate the
most recent legislation of the village as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this municipal code by title in any legal documents. (2011 Code)
1-1-1-1: CODE ADOPTION:
That certain municipal code of ordinances, dated 2011 and consisting of titles
1 – 12 of the village code of ordinances of the village of Pingree Grove, is
hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed as the village code of ordinances for
the village of Pingree Grove. Any and all provisions in said village code which
may lawfully be adopted or ratified by this ordinance are so adopted and
ratified.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any ordinance or regulation which is not
lawfully permitted to be approved or ratified by this action of the village
board without some further process (e.g., public hearing) shall not be affected
by the passage of this ordinance, and the version of such ordinance or
regulation that is in effect at the time of passage of this ordinance shall
remain in full force and effect. Any such ordinance which is not lawfully
permitted to be approved or ratified by this action shall be considered to be
added to the enumerated list of excluded ordinances set forth in section
1-2-1 hereof.
With specific reference to the zoning code of the village of Pingree Grove,
codified at title 11 of the village code of ordinances, the village board notes
that said code was not amended from the content that had previously been passed
and established by the village pursuant to the statutorily required process
involving public notice and hearings. Rather, the only change in such zoning
code is the renumbering of sections so as to fit within this complete set of
village codes. It is the intention of the village to utilize the renumbered
sections as contained herein. However, should a court of competent jurisdiction
determine that the use of said renumbered sections is invalid for any reason,
the zoning code of the village, as previously numbered prior to the adoption of
this village code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect.
To the extent that any court of competent jurisdiction determines that any
ordinance in this village code is invalid by virtue of this codification/
ratification process, the version of said ordinance in effect as of the date of
passage of this ordinance shall remain in full force and effect until
subsequently modified.
The passage of any ordinance after the effective date of this ordinance, which
amends any provision of this village code of ordinances, shall supersede the
current terms of this ordinance and of the village code to the fullest extent
permissible under the law. (Ord. 2011-18, 7-5-2011)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The municipal code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
the state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2011 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Reference To Code: Any ordinance amending this municipal code shall set
forth the title, chapter and section number of the section or sections to be
amended, and this shall constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory
requirement pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of
this municipal code. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be
immediately forwarded to the codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall
be prepared for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this municipal
code. Each such replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be
inserted in each individual copy of the municipal code. (2011 Code)
   B.   Penalties: In case of amendment of any section of this code containing
provisions for which a penalty is provided in another section, the penalty so
provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section so
amended or the amending section whether reenacted in the amendatory ordinance
or not, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein. (1990 Code
§23.202)
   C.   Recording Amendments:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the village clerk to keep at least one copy
of this municipal code which he shall update in the following manner: Whenever
an ordinance which amends or makes an addition to this code is passed and
approved, he shall note on the margin of the section or sections amended that
such amendment has been made, with a reference to the place in the amendment
book, hereinafter described, where the amendment may be found; and in case of
an addition, he shall mark in the appropriate place a notation that such an
addition has been made, with a similar reference to the aforesaid amendment
book.
      2.   The village clerk shall also keep a separate book containing every
amendment or addition passed to this code, with a reference on each copy of
such amendment or addition as to the place in the record of ordinances where
the original ordinance may be found.
      3.   The records mentioned in this subsection shall be kept in addition
to the record of ordinances which the clerk is required to keep by statute.
(1990 Code §23.203)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this municipal code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while
in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the
village clerk when directed so to do by order of the village board of trustees.
(2011 Code)
1-1-5: COPIES OF CODE:
   A.   Distribution Of Copies: All copies of this municipal code belonging to
the village shall be deposited with the village clerk. He shall deliver one
copy thereof to the village president, one to each member of the village board
and copies to such other persons as the board may direct. (1990 Code §23.302)
   B.   Presentation Of Copies: The village president shall have the power to
extend to or reciprocate the courtesies of other municipalities by presenting
to them a copy of this municipal code, bound at the expense of the village as
to him may seem suitable; and he shall have the power to present two (2) copies
of this municipal code to the Illinois municipal league. (1990 Code §23.303)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed by the president and board of
trustees prior to the adoption of this municipal code are hereby repealed,
except such as are included in this municipal code or are by necessary
implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving clauses
contained in the following sections), and excluding the following ordinances
which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Ordinances levying or imposing taxes.
   B.   Budget or appropriation ordinances.
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants.
   F.   Salary ordinances.
   G.   Ordinances dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating,
opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the
village.
   H.   Improvement ordinances.
   I.   Ordinances or resolutions promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money for the village or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village
or any evidence of village indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed
by the village.
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections.
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the village.
   L.   Administrative ordinances or resolutions or motions of the board of
trustees not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code.
   M.   Ordinances establishing or prescribing grades in the village.
   N.   Ordinances providing for local improvements and making assessments
therefor.
   O.   Ordinances extending or contracting the boundaries of the village.
   P.   Any other ordinances or resolutions or motions of the board of trustees
not expressly in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code.
   Q.   All special ordinances. (1990 Code §23.401; amd. 2011 Code)
   R.   Ordinances or resolutions approved by, through or in connection with
the development of any parcel of real property in the village, including, but
not limited to, ordinances and resolutions granting specified zoning, approval
of plats or plans, approval of planned unit developments, or other similar
approvals. (Ord. 2011-18, 7-5-2011)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this municipal code or by virtue of
section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this municipal code may contain provisions
for such matters, in which case, this municipal code shall be considered as
amending such ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only.
(2011 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this municipal code. (2011 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this municipal code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by
reference, is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or
ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or
any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference. The village board
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the village president and board of trustees may
be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be held,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of Pingree Grove".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this municipal code to "title",
"chapter", "section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for
organizational and clarification purposes only. Such change to village
ordinances is not meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original
ordinances. (2011 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: Unless otherwise indicated, the village board of trustees of
the village of Pingree Grove.
CODE: The municipal code of the village of Pingree Grove.
COUNTY: The county of Kane, state of Illinois.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Pingree Grove, county of Kane, state of Illinois.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2011 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the municipal code are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed
or taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify
or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Code Enforcement
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   General Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this code or state
statute, any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this code shall be fined in an amount not less than seventy five
dollars ($75.00) and not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), plus
court costs. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed to be a
separate offense. (Ord. 2016-O-20, 9-6-2016)
      2.   A penalty for each offense may include a requirement that the
offending party perform some reasonable public service work such as, but not
limited to, picking up litter in public parks or upon public highways or
performing maintenance of public facilities. A violation hereof may be
established by a preponderance of the evidence.
      3.   A default in the payment of a fine or any installment of a fine may
be collected by any means authorized for the collection of monetary judgments.
The village attorney may retain attorneys and private collection agents for the
purpose of collecting any default in payment of any fine or installment of that
fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the village with respect to attorneys or
private collection agents retained by the village attorney under this
subsection shall be charged to the offender.
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of an
ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the state,
is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of
incarceration in a penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed
six (6) months. The matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal
procedure of the state, and the village shall be required to establish guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt.
   C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this municipal code the same as though it were a
part of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this municipal code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed,
but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the
same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this municipal
code and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such
breach, the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2011 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this municipal code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the village board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on
such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (2011 Code)
1-4-4: CODE ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   General Ordinances: All ordinances not defined below as "police
ordinances" shall be considered to be the "general ordinances" of the village
of Pingree Grove. General ordinances shall include those restrictions contained
in title 7, chapters 5, "Parking Regulations", and 8, "Abandoned, Derelict
Vehicles", of this code.
   B.   Police Ordinances: Those ordinances contained in title 6, "Police And
Public Safety", of this code, and those ordinances contained in title 7, "Motor
Vehicles And Traffic", chapters 1, 3, 4, 6 and 7 of this code shall be
considered to be "police ordinances" of the village of Pingree Grove.
   C.   Enforcement: Police ordinances shall only be enforceable through the
actions of sworn police officers of the village of Pingree Grove. General
ordinances of the village, including, but not limited to, those ordinances
contained in titles 4, "Business And License Regulations"; 5, "Health,
Sanitation And Environment"; 8, "Public Ways And Property"; 9, "Water And
Wastewater"; 10, "Building And Development"; 11, "Zoning Regulations"; and 12,
"Subdivision Regulations", of this code shall be enforceable through the
actions of any sworn police officer of the village, and shall also be
enforceable through actions of the building official of the village, the
village administrator/manager, the public works supervisor or director, and any
village agent or employee authorized to so act, in writing, by the building
official or village administrator/manager. Code enforcement for property and
building code related issues shall be the primary responsibility of the
building official of the village. With respect to any party identified as being
authorized to enforce a given code or regulation in the village, said party
shall have the authority to investigate any alleged or potential violation of
this code, and to issue notices and/or citations with respect to such
violations.
   D.   Administration: The village administrator or manager, the chief of
police and the building official shall mutually agree upon and implement a
system for administering and tracking ordinance violations and related
investigations for the village. (Ord. 2011-24, 8-1-2011)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTED VILLAGE OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election Of Officers
1-5-2: Commencement And Cessation Of Office
1-5-1: ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
Elections for municipal offices shall be held as provided by statute, and at
the time prescribed by statute. (1990 Code §10.001)
1-5-2: COMMENCEMENT AND CESSATION OF OFFICE:
   A.   The term of office for each elected officer of the village shall
commence at the first regular or special meeting of the board of trustees in
May following the certification of such election. (Ord. 2004-19, 11-15-2004;
amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   The term of office for each affected official not retained or retiring
shall cease at the first regular or special meeting of the board of trustees in
May following election of his successor or when his successor takes the oath of
office, whichever occurs first.
   C.   The oath of office for each new official shall be given, and such new
official shall be seated, immediately following calling of the roll after the
commencement of such May meeting. (Ord. 2004-19, 11-15-2004)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-5A-1: Election; Term Of Office
1-5A-2: Oath And Bond
1-5A-3: Compensation
1-5A-4: Powers And Duties
1-5A-5: President Pro Tem
1-5A-6: Acting President
1-5A-1: ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE:
   The president shall be elected for a four (4) year term and shall serve
until his successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute. (1990
Code §1.001)
1-5A-2: OATH AND BOND:
   Before entering upon the duties of his office, the village president shall
subscribe to the required oath and shall execute a bond in such amount with
such sureties as may be required by the board of trustees, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of his office; provided, the amount of such
bond shall not be less than three thousand dollars ($3,000.00). (1990 Code
§1.010)
1-5A-3: COMPENSATION:
   The compensation for the village president is one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) per week.
   However, effective as of the beginning of the term for Village President
whose term begins in May, 2027, the Village President shall receive as
compensation for such President's services a salary of twelve thousand dollars
($12,000.00) per fiscal year paid in increments in accordance with the
Village's standard payroll practice.
(Ord. 2002-05, 10-21-2002; amd. Ord. 2025-O-11, 5-19-2025)
1-5A-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The village president shall preside over the meetings of the
board of trustees, and shall perform such duties as may be required of him by
statute or ordinance, and shall have the power and authority to inspect all
books and records pertaining to village affairs and kept by any officer or
employee of the village at any reasonable time. (1990 Code §1.002; amd. 2011
Code)
   B.   Village Representative At Formal Occasions: The village president shall
act for and on behalf of the village on formal occasions and receptions, but in
his absence or inability to attend any such function, the board of trustees may
select any other village officer to so act. (1990 Code §1.009)
1-5A-5: PRESIDENT PRO TEM:
During a temporary absence or disability of the village president, the board of
trustees shall elect one of its members to act as president pro tem, who,
during such absence or disability, shall possess the powers of the village
president, as is provided by statute. (1990 Code §1.007)
1-5A-6: ACTING PRESIDENT:
In the event of a vacancy of the office of village president, the board of
trustees may appoint one of its members as acting village president to serve
until the vacancy is filled at a regular or special election as provided by
law. (1990 Code §1.008)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5B-1: Election; Term Of Office; Powers And Duties
1-5B-2: Oath Required
1-5B-3: Compensation
1-5B-4: Meetings
1-5B-5: Order Of Business
1-5B-6: Agenda
1-5B-7: Rules Of Order
1-5B-8: Ordinances, Resolutions And Motions
1-5B-9: Committees
1-5B-1: ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE; POWERS AND DUTIES:
   The members of the board of trustees, consisting of six (6) members, shall
be elected and serve for a four (4) year term, according to the method provided
by statute. The board shall be the legislative division of the village
government and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be
authorized by statute.
(1990 Code §2.101)
1-5B-2: OATH REQUIRED:
   The members of the board of trustees shall take the oath of office
prescribed by statute.
(1990 Code §2.102)
1-5B-3: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Established: Each trustee shall receive compensation from the village
at the rate of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for each village meeting attended
by said trustees which the trustee is officially required to attend in his or
her capacity as trustee. Meetings eligible for compensation shall be limited to
regular and special meetings of the board of trustees.
   However, effective as of the beginning of the term for trustees whose terms
begin in May, 2027, and for those trustees whose terms begin in May, 2029, each
such trustee shall receive compensation from the Village at the rate of one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each Village Board of Trustees meeting
attended by said trustee which the trustee is officially required to attend in
his or her capacity as trustee. Meetings eligible for compensation shall be
limited to regular and special meetings of the Village's Board of Trustees.
   B.   Absences: During every year of tenure, each trustee shall be entitled
to two (2) absences from regular board meetings with pay; however, for each
subsequent regular board meeting not attended following two (2) absences, such
trustee shall not be entitled to compensation for such unattended meeting.
   C.   Expenses: In addition, every member of the board of trustees shall be
reimbursed for automobile expenses incurred in connection with the performance
of his duties for the village at the then current IRS mileage rate per mile, as
well as other expenses connected with village duties.
(1990 Code § 2.106; amd. Ord. 2007-55, 5-7-2007; 2011 Code; Ord. 2025-O-11, 5-
19-2025)
1-5B-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular And Adjourned Meetings:
      1.   Board Of Trustees: The regular meetings of the board of trustees
shall be held at the village hall, 14N042 Reinking Road, Pingree Grove,
Illinois, on the first Monday of every month immediately following the
committee of the whole meeting; and on the third Monday of every month at the
hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.; provided, that if the regular meeting falls
on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take place on the next regular day at the
same hour. Adjourned meetings may be held at such time as the board of trustees
determines. The location of said meetings may be changed, upon forty eight (48)
hours' notice, as the need may arise.
      2.   Committee Of The Whole: Committee of the whole meetings shall be
held at the village hall, 14N042 Reinking Road, Pingree Grove, Illinois, at the
hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., the first Monday of the month, unless
otherwise provided by the village, or unless the committee is earlier
terminated by the village president. (Ord. 2011-43, 12-5-2011)
   B.   Special Meetings:
      1.   Special meetings of the board of trustees may be called by the
village president or three (3) trustees; provided, that a written notice of
such meeting shall be given to each member of the board of trustees at least
forty eight (48) hours before the time set for the meeting; provided, further,
that in case all of the elected members of the board of trustees are present at
any regular meeting, then the requirement of notice shall be unnecessary and
shall be deemed waived. (1990 Code §2.104; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   No vote or action of the board of trustees shall be rescinded at any
special meeting unless there is present at such special meeting as many members
of the board as were present at the meeting when such vote or action was taken,
as provided by statute. (1990 Code §2.117)
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the board of trustees at which any legal
action is taken shall be open to the public, unless otherwise permitted under
the Illinois open meetings act as amended, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/
1 et seq. (1990 Code §2.120; amd. 2011 Code)
   D.   Quorum: A majority of the trustees or one-half (1/2) the trustees and
the village president shall constitute a quorum thereof, but a smaller number
may meet to adjourn from time to time or to compel the attendance of absentees.
(1990 Code §2.105)
   E.   Presiding Officer; Voting:
      1.   The village president shall be the presiding officer of all regular
and special meetings of the board of trustees and at all times when the board
meets as a committee of the whole. In the absence of the village president, the
trustees present shall select one of their number to be president pro tem to
preside at that meeting.
      2.   The village president shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution,
or motion except: a) where the vote of the trustees has resulted in a tie; or
b) where one-half (1/2) of the trustees elected have voted in favor of an
ordinance, resolution, or motion, even though there is no tie vote; or c) where
a vote of greater than a majority of the corporate authorities is required by
state statute to adopt an ordinance, resolution, or motion. In each instance
specified in this subsection E2, the village president shall vote.
      3.   Nothing in this subsection shall deprive an acting village president
or president pro tem from voting in his capacity as trustee, but he shall not
be entitled to another vote in his capacity as acting village president or
president pro tem. (1990 Code §2.107)
   F.   Addressing Meetings: No person, other than the village president or a
member of the board of trustees or other municipal officer or employee, shall
address that body at any regular or special meeting of the board of trustees
except upon the consent of a majority of the members present, and any person
wishing to address the board of trustees shall file written request prior to
such regular or special meeting. (1990 Code §2.119)
   G.   Minutes And Records: The village clerk shall keep the minutes and
records of the proceedings of the board of trustees. (1990 Code §2.112)
   H.   Disturbing Meetings Prohibited: It is unlawful to disturb any meeting
of the board of trustees or of any committee thereof, or to behave in a
disorderly manner at any such meeting. Any person violating any provision of
this subsection shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for each offense. (1990 Code §2.113; amd. 2011 Code)
1-5B-5: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The order of business at meetings of the board of trustees shall be as follows:
   A.   Call to order.
   B.   Pledge Of Allegiance.
   C.   Roll call.
   D.   Public comments.
   E.   Special presentations (if any).
   F.   Public hearings (if any).
   G.   Consent agenda.
   H.   Items for separate action.
   I.   Village president's report.
   J.   Staff reports.
   K.   Old business.
   L.   New business.
   M.   Executive session.
   N.   Adjournment. (1990 Code §2.114; amd. 2011 Code)
1-5B-6: AGENDA:
   A.   Consent Agenda: The consent agenda shall consist of those items on the
agenda of the board of trustees which are considered routine by the village
clerk, e.g., approval of minutes, approval of accounts payable, approval of
vouchers, receipt and filing or referral of correspondence, receipt of
administrative reports, acceptance of grants of easements, and accepting and
filing of committee reports, shall be marked with an asterisk; and unless the
village president, a trustee, or a citizen specifically requests that such item
on the agenda marked to be considered under consent agenda be removed
therefrom, and board of trustee action taken separately on said item in the
order appearing on the agenda, those items so marked shall be approved,
adopted, accepted, etc., by motion of the board of trustees and roll call vote.
Those items so approved under the heading "consent agenda" will appear in the
minutes of the board of trustees in their proper form, i.e., approval of
minutes, approval of accounts payable, etc. (1990 Code §2.115)
   B.   Items Not On Agenda: The board of trustees shall not consider items not
generally set forth in the agenda for the board meeting unless there is consent
of two-thirds (2/3) of the members present at that meeting. The failure of the
board of trustees to observe this provision shall not invalidate any action
taken by the board. (1990 Code §2.116)
1-5B-7: RULES OF ORDER:
   A.   Time Of Presentation: No communication or report, except by the
president, a trustee or the clerk, shall be considered unless it has been filed
with the clerk during business hours at least one day preceding the meeting.
(1990 Code §2.201)
   B.   Precedence Of Motions: When a question is before the board, no motion
shall be entertained except: 1) to adjourn; 2) to fix the hour of adjournment;
3) to lay on the table; 4) for the previous question; 5) to postpone
indefinitely. These motions shall have precedence in the order indicated. Any
such motion, except a motion to amend, shall be put to a vote without debate.
(1990 Code §2.202)
   C.   Motions To Be Stated: When a motion is made and seconded, said motion
shall be stated before debate. A motion may not be withdrawn by the mover
without consent of the member seconding said motion. (1990 Code §2.203)
   D.   Addressing Meetings:
      1.   Trustees desiring to speak shall address the chair and, upon
recognition by the presiding officer, shall confine himself to the question
under debate and shall avoid all personalities. A trustee, once recognized,
shall not be interrupted while speaking unless called to order by the presiding
officer, unless a point of order is raised by another member or unless the
speaker chooses to yield to questions from another member.
      2.   Any member of the public permitted to address the board shall be
recognized by the chair, shall state his name and address in an audible tone
for the record, and shall limit his remarks to the question under discussion.
      3.   All remarks and questions shall be addressed to the presiding
officer and not to any individual member thereof. (1990 Code §2.204)
   E.   Enforcement Of Rules:
      1.   The presiding officer shall preserve decorum and decide all
questions of order, subject to appeal to the board.
      2.   Any trustee may appeal to the board from a ruling of the presiding
officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly
state his reason for same, and the presiding officer may briefly explain his
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal, and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The presiding officer shall then put the
question, "Shall the decision of the chair be sustained?" If a majority of the
members vote "aye", the ruling of the chair is sustained; otherwise, it is
overruled. (1990 Code §2.205)
   F.   Limitation Of Debate: No member shall be allowed to speak more than
once on any subject until every other member choosing to speak thereon shall
have spoken, and no member shall speak more than twice upon one subject, nor
for a longer time than ten (10) minutes, without leave of the board. (1990 Code
§2.206)
   G.   Voting: Every member present when a question is put shall vote either
"aye" or "nay" unless the board shall, for special reason, excuse him from
voting. Request to be excused from voting must be made before the votes are
called for; otherwise, a passed vote shall count with the majority voting.
(1990 Code §2.207)
   H.   Demand For Roll Call: Upon demand of any member, the roll shall be
called for yeas and nays upon any question before the board. (1990 Code §2.208)
   I.   Committees 1 :
      1.   When the board meets as a committee of the whole, without objection,
the president shall continue to serve; otherwise, the board shall appoint a
chair to preside, and the presiding officer of the board shall leave the chair.
The rules of the board, as far as applicable, shall be observed in the
committee of the whole; except, that no limit shall be placed on the frequency
of speaking, and the yeas and nays shall not be taken.
      2.   Committees may hold meetings on matters referred to them in the
conference room of the village hall. Committees may hold special public
hearings on pending ordinances and resolutions, having first given due notice
of the time and place of such meeting.
      3.   Special committees shall meet on the call of the chair or any two
(2) members.
      4.   Committees shall report to the board without unnecessary delay upon
matters referred to them.
      5.   A majority of the members of the committee shall constitute a
quorum. (1990 Code §2.209)
   J.   Motion To Table: A motion to lay on the table shall preclude all
amendments or debate of the subject under consideration. If the motion shall
prevail, the consideration of the subject may be resumed only upon motion of a
member voting with the majority and with the consent of two-thirds (2/3) of the
members present. (1990 Code §2.210)
   K.   Division Of Question: If the question contains two (2) or more
divisionable propositions, the presiding officer may, and upon request of a
member shall, divide the same. (1990 Code §2.211)
   L.   Reconsideration: After the decision on any question, any member who
voted with the majority may move a reconsideration of any action at the same or
next succeeding meeting; provided, however, that a resolution authorizing or
relating to any contract may be reconsidered at any time before the final
execution thereof. (1990 Code §2.212)
   M.   Suspension Of Rules: Any provision of these rules may be temporarily
suspended at any meeting of the board by a majority vote of all members
elected. The vote on any suspension shall be taken by yeas and nays and entered
upon the records. (1990 Code §2.213)
   N.   Amending Rules: These rules may be amended or new rules adopted by a
majority vote of all members of the board. Any such alterations or amendments
shall be submitted in writing at the preceding regular meeting and shall be
placed on the calendar under order of new business. This requirement shall be
waived only by unanimous consent, with a recorded vote of all members. (1990
Code §2.214)
   O.   Other Rules: For matters not covered by the foregoing rules of order,
"Robert's Rules Of Order" shall be followed. (1990 Code §2.215)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-5B-9 of this article.
1-5B-8: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS:
   A.   Approval; Veto: All resolutions and motions which: 1) create any
liability against the village; or 2) provide for the expenditure or
appropriation of village money; or 3) sell any village property; and all
ordinances passed by the board of trustees shall be deposited with the village
clerk. If the village president approves of them, he shall sign them. Those of
which he disapproves, he shall return to the board of trustees with his written
objections at the next regular meeting of the board of trustees occurring not
less than five (5) days after their passage. The village president may
disapprove of any one or more sums appropriated in any ordinance, resolution,
or motion making an appropriation, and if so, the remainder shall be effective.
However, the village president may disapprove entirely of an ordinance,
resolution or motion making an appropriation. If the village president fails to
return any ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with written
objections within the designated time, said ordinance or any specific
resolution or motion shall become effective despite the absence of the Village
President's signature. (1990 Code §2.108; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Reconsideration; Passing Over Veto: Every resolution and motion
specified in subsection A of this section and every ordinance, which is
returned to the Board of Trustees by the Village President, shall be
reconsidered by the Board of Trustees. If, after such reconsideration, two-
thirds (2/3) of all the Trustees elected to the Board of Trustees agree to pass
an ordinance, resolution, or motion, notwithstanding the Village President's
refusal to approve it, then it shall be effective. The vote on the question of
passage over the Village President's veto shall be by yeas and nays and shall
be recorded in the minutes of the Board of Trustees. (1990 Code §2.109)
   C.   Resolutions In Writing: Any resolution submitted to the Board of
Trustees shall be reduced to writing before being voted upon, at the request of
any two (2) members of the Board of Trustees. (1990 Code §2.118)
1-5B-9: COMMITTEES 1 :
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Appointment: The Village President shall appoint such committees as
deemed necessary or as may be directed by the Board of Trustees. (1990 Code
§2.110)
      2.   Membership; Chair: The Village President shall appoint the members
of all committees in the absence of specific direction by the Board of Trustees
and shall designate the Chair thereof. (1990 Code §2.111)
   B.   Standing Committees:
      1.   Established: The Village shall have, as standing committees of the
Board of Trustees, the following committees: (Ord. 2007-74, 7-16-2007; amd.
2011 Code)
Community and Economic Development.
Community Events Committee.
Community Garden Advisory Committee.
Finance and Personnel.
Park Advisory Committee.
Public Safety.
Public Works. (Ord. 2007-74, 7-16-2007; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2011-13, 6-6-2011;
Ord. 2017-O-02, 2-23-2017)
      2.   Composition; Appointment: Standing committees shall be comprised of
such number of Village Trustees as the Village President may appoint, with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Village President may, from
time to time, appoint persons other than Village Trustees to standing
committees, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, although such
persons shall not have voting rights within the committees, nor shall such
persons have the ability to attend closed session meetings of the committee
without the consent of a majority of the Trustees who are committee members in
attendance at the committee meeting. The Village President shall be an ex
officio member of all such committees, with the right to attend any portion of
any committee meeting.
      3.   Chair And Secretary: The Village President shall designate, from the
ranks of each committee, a person to serve as committee Chair, and a person to
serve as Secretary. The committee Chair shall be responsible for the orderly
and professional conduct of committee meetings, and the Secretary shall be
responsible for coordinating the posting of all notices pertaining to such
meetings, and keeping such minutes of such meetings as shall be required under
applicable law.
      4.   Powers; Restrictions:
         a.   Standing committees shall have the power and authority to review
and suggest policy for the Village on the topics under their review, and shall
have such other power and authority as the Village President or Village Board
of Trustees shall delegate to the committees by ordinance or resolution. The
Corporate Authorities of the Village may, by ordinance or resolution, adopt
such further policies or directives as may be deemed necessary or appropriate
to further define the power and authority of any standing committee. It shall
be the duty of the standing committees of the Board of Trustees to keep a close
watch over the affairs of the departments of the village over which they have
jurisdiction. Each committee shall promptly and thoroughly investigate and
report in writing upon all matters referred thereto by the board of trustees,
and do and perform such other and further duties as the board of trustees may
require by ordinance, resolution or motion.
         b.   Standing committees shall have the power and authority to make
recommendations to the corporate authorities of the village regarding the
topics under their review. Such recommendations may be approved or rejected by
vote of the corporate authorities of the village.
         c.   Standing committees shall not, without further ordinance or
resolution, have the authority to bind the village or the corporate authorities
of the village. Any action which requires approval by the board of trustees or
corporate authorities of the village may only be approved by such board or
authority at a meeting thereof, unless the village shall adopt such further
ordinance or resolution which delegates to any committee any discrete power. No
action of a standing committee is official without approval by the village
board of trustees.
         d.   Standing committees shall be treated as committees of the village
and shall be subject to all applicable laws and regulations, including, but not
limited to, the open meetings act 1 .
      5.   Compensation: There shall be no compensation due to any person for
serving on a standing committee of the village.
   C.   Temporary Committees: The village president may create such other
temporary committees as he shall deem appropriate. Such temporary committees
shall have their duration, role, powers and membership defined by the village
president, with the advice and consent of the village board. Temporary
committees shall have the power and authority to make recommendations to the
corporate authorities of the village regarding the topics under their review.
Such recommendations may be approved or rejected by vote of the corporate
authorities of the village. Temporary committees may have such additional and
other powers as may be lawfully delegated to them by the village board and
village president. (Ord. 2007-74, 7-16-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  1-5B-7I of this article.
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-5C-1: Appointment
1-5C-2: Bond
1-5C-3: Compensation
1-5C-4: Duties
1-5C-5: Authorization For Deputy Clerk(s)
1-5C-1: APPOINTMENT:
The village clerk shall be appointed by the village mayor, with the advice and
consent of the village board, to a definite term of office as specified at the
time of appointment, not to exceed the greater of four (4) years or the then
remaining term of office of the village mayor, and shall serve until a
successor is appointed, duly qualified and serving. In the event of resignation
or other events causing a vacancy, the mayor shall appoint a successor with the
advice and consent of the village board. (Ord. 2012-O-21, 11-5-2012)
1-5C-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of this office, the village clerk shall execute
a bond in such amount and with such sureties as may be required by the board of
trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties. (1990
Code §3.003)
1-5C-3: COMPENSATION:
The village board shall set the salary and compensation for the appointed
position of village clerk from time to time. Said compensation shall be limited
to payment for the performance of those obligations which are statutorily
required by Illinois law or this code. In addition, the village may, but shall
not be obligated to, employ the same person who is the appointed village clerk
as a nonappointed employee of the village, serving in an administrative support
role under the direction of the village administrator. The village may provide
additional compensation or benefits for the administrative support role, if
desired by the village. Said additional compensation or benefits shall in no
way be linked to or tied to the person's performance as village clerk. In
addition, the village may terminate said person from employment without removal
from the office of village clerk, may remove the person from the office of
village clerk without removal from employment in administrative support, or may
terminate the employee and remove him/her from office as appointed village
clerk. (Ord. 2012-O-21, 11-5-2012)
1-5C-4: DUTIES:
   A.   Signature Required: The village clerk shall seal and attest all
contracts of the village and all licenses, permits, and other documents which
require this formality. (1990 Code §3.005)
   B.   Monies To Finance Director: The village clerk shall turn over all
monies received on behalf of the village to the village finance director on
receipt of the same and, with such monies, shall give a statement as to the
source thereof. (1990 Code §3.006; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Accounts: The village clerk shall keep accounts showing all monies
received and the source and disposition of same, and such other accounts as may
be required by statute or ordinance. (1990 Code §3.007)
   D.   Recordkeeping: In addition to the record of ordinances or other records
which the clerk is required by statute to keep, he shall keep a register of all
licenses and permits issued, and a record of the payment thereon; he shall keep
a record showing all of the officers and regular appointees of the village; and
such other records as may be required by the board of trustees. (1990 Code
§3.008)
   E.   Custodian Of Village Seal And Documents:
      1.   Seal: The clerk shall be the custodian of the village seal and shall
affix its impression on documents whenever this is required. (1990 Code §3.009)
      2.   Documents: The village clerk shall be the custodian of all documents
belonging to the village which are not assigned to the custody of some other
officer. As such custodian, it shall be the duty of the village clerk to act
upon all requests made upon the village for access to inspection and copying of
documents pursuant to the Illinois freedom of information act 1  and shall
otherwise comply with any procedures established by the board of trustees for
compliance with said act. (1990 Code §3.010)
   F.   Index Of Documents And Records: The clerk shall keep and maintain a
proper index to all documents and records kept so that ready access thereto and
use thereof may be had. (1990 Code §3.011)
   G.   Issuance Of Commissions: The village clerk shall issue official
commissions to be signed by the village president and attested by him to all
persons elected or appointed to a village office. Such commission shall be
delivered no later than five (5) days following such election or appointment.
(1990 Code §3.012)
   H.   Minutes Of Meetings: In addition to the duties required by statute and
ordinance, the village clerk shall prepare copies of minutes of all previous
meetings, which minutes have not previously been approved, and distribute those
copies to the trustees and the village president as directed. Unless otherwise
requested, said minutes shall be considered as part of the consent agenda at
the meetings of the board of trustees. (1990 Code §3.013)
   I.   Forwarding Petitions, Applications And Appropriate Correspondence:
Whenever the village clerk shall receive a petition, application,
correspondence or other documentation which requires the attention of a village
official other than the village clerk under statute or ordinance, the village
clerk shall forward said document or a copy thereof to the appropriate village
official within five (5) days of the receipt of said document. If the village
clerk shall be uncertain as to whom to forward such document upon receipt, the
village clerk shall forward the same to the village president; provided, that
the village clerk shall keep a copy in his records of all such documents. (1990
Code §3.014)
   J.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties provided in this section,
the clerk shall perform such other duties and functions as may be required by
statute or ordinance. (1990 Code §3.015)
   K.   Nonclerk Duties: The village may, but shall not be obligated to, employ
the village clerk in a nonappointed capacity as a village employee, on a full
time or part time basis. The village clerk shall perform any obligations
arising out of his/her employment as a nonappointed employee of the village, on
the same terms and conditions as other village employees, without regard to the
provisions of this article. (Ord. 2012-O-21, 11-5-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
1-5C-5: AUTHORIZATION FOR DEPUTY CLERK(S):
The village board shall, from time to time, specify the number of deputy clerks
(if any) which are permitted to be appointed by the village clerk, and shall
specify the compensation and benefits available to such persons (if any). The
aforesaid authority may be exercised at any time by a majority vote of the
village board of trustees. The village board expressly reserves the right to
terminate approval for appointment of deputy clerks at any point in time, or to
alter the number of clerks permitted or to alter their compensation. No person
serving as an appointed deputy clerk shall have any continuing expectation of
placement in that appointed position, nor shall any person have any continuing
expectation of continuing compensation or benefits related to said appointed
position. The village board may exercise its authority by ordinance, resolution
or by a properly noticed motion and vote without requirement of ordinance or
resolution. (Ord. 2011-19, 7-5-2011)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Application Of Provisions
1-6-2: Appointive Officers
1-6-3: Term Of Office; Vacancy
1-6-4: Oath And Bond
1-6-5: Compensation
1-6-6: Monies Received
1-6-7: Records Open To Inspection
1-6-8: Conservators Of Peace
1-6-9: Inspections Authorized; Nuisance Conditions
1-6-10: Termination Of Office; Property To Successor
1-6-11: Impersonating, Interfering With Officers Or Employees Prohibited
1-6-12: Personnel Policies And Procedures
1-6-13: Paid Leave Rights
1-6-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers and employees
of the village, regardless of the time of the creation of the office or
position or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee. (1990 Code
§5.001)
1-6-2: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
All officers, other than elective officers, shall be appointed by the village
president, by and with the consent of the board of trustees, as is provided by
statute. Provided, that all employees shall, in the absence of any provisions
to the contrary, be appointed or selected by the village president. (1990 Code
§5.002)
1-6-3: TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCY:
Every appointive officer of the village shall hold office until May 1 following
his or her appointment or until his successor is appointed and qualified,
unless it is otherwise provided by ordinance. In case of vacancy in any such
office, the office shall be filled in the same manner in which appointment or
selection is made, in the absence of provision to the contrary. (1990 Code
§5.003)
1-6-4: OATH AND BOND:
   A.   Oath: Every officer of the village shall, before entering upon his
duties, take the oath prescribed by statute. (1990 Code §5.004)
   B.   Bond: Every officer or employee shall, if required by the village
president and board of trustees, upon entering upon the duties of his or her
office, give a bond in such amount with such sureties as may be determined by
the village president and board of trustees, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of his office or position. (1990 Code §5.005)
1-6-5: COMPENSATION:
All officers and employees of the village shall receive such salary as may from
time to time be provided by ordinance or resolution. No officer or employee
shall be entitled to retain any portion of any fees collected by him in the
performance of his duties as a municipal officer or employee. Any such fees
that are received shall be turned over to the finance director. (1990 Code
§5.006; amd. 2011 Code)
1-6-6: MONIES RECEIVED:
Every officer of the village shall, at least once each month, turn over all
monies received by him in his official capacity to the village finance
director, with a statement showing the source from which the same was received.
(1990 Code §5.008; amd. 2011 Code)
1-6-7: RECORDS OPEN TO INSPECTION:
All records kept by any officer of the village in an official capacity shall be
open to inspection by the village president or any member of the board of
trustees at all reasonable times, whether or not such records are required to
be kept by statute or ordinance. (1990 Code §5.009)
1-6-8: CONSERVATORS OF PEACE:
After receiving a certificate attesting to the successful completion of a
training course administered by the Illinois law enforcement training standards
board, the village president and members of the board of trustees are declared
to be conservators of the peace with such powers to make arrests as are given
to conservators of the peace by statute. (1990 Code §5.010; amd. 2011 Code)
1-6-9: INSPECTIONS AUTHORIZED; NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
   A.   Any officer or employee of the village who is authorized to enforce
ordinances may make such inspections as may be necessary to see to the
enforcement of such ordinances.
   B.   Whenever such officer or employee has reason to believe that there
exists on or in any premises in the village any nuisance dangerous to public
health, any fire hazard, any structural defect likely to result in injury to
persons or property, or any electric wiring or equipment in such condition as
to present a fire hazard or danger to persons, he shall ask permission of the
occupant of such premises, or the owner or custodian thereof if the premises
are unoccupied, to inspect the same. (1990 Code §5.014)
1-6-10: TERMINATION OF OFFICE; PROPERTY TO SUCCESSOR:
Every officer and employee of the village, upon the expiration of his term for
any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his successor all books and records
which may be the property of the village within five (5) days after
notification and request, and if no successor has been appointed within one
week after the termination of office, such property shall be delivered to the
village clerk or village finance director. (1990 Code §5.011; amd. 2011 Code)
1-6-11: IMPERSONATING, INTERFERING WITH OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Impersonation: It is unlawful for any person to impersonate, without
lawful authority, any village officer or employee. (1990 Code §5.012)
   B.   Interference: It is unlawful to interfere with or hinder any officer or
employee of the village while engaged in the duties of his office or
employment. (1990 Code §5.013)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code §§5.012, 5.013; amd. 2011 Code)
1-6-12: PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Adoption: The village hereby adopts the personnel policies and
procedures, in the form attached to the ordinance codified herein as exhibit A,
in its entirety and as may be revised relative to the direction provided
regarding the sick leave accrual policy. Said policies and procedures shall
supersede any prior employee handbooks or policy guides maintained by the
village.
   B.   Administration And Enforcement: The village manager or his designee
shall be authorized to interpret and enforce the provisions of the employee
policy guide, and shall be authorized to make administrative changes or to
update the employee policy guide as he shall determine necessary to comply with
new or changing circumstances, types of village employees, or changes in the
applicable laws or regulations governing the village or its employees. (Ord.
2009-02, 2-2-2009)
   C.   Village Manager/Village Administrator: Any authority provided to the
village manager by virtue of the employee handbook may be exercised by a
village manager or a village administrator of the village of Pingree Grove, as
if such terms were used interchangeably. In the event the village employs both
a village manager and a village administrator, the board may designate who
among the two (2) employees shall exercise the authority; in the absence of
such a designation, the authority may be exercised by either the manager or the
administrator. (Ord. 2011-17, 6-20-2011)
1-6-13: PAID LEAVE RIGHTS:
   A.   All regular, full-time employees of the Village will, at all times, be
provided no less than forty (40) hours of any form of paid leave for every
consecutive twelve (12) month period of their employment.
   B.   All part-time, temporary, and seasonal employees of the Village will,
at all times, be provided no less than one hour of any form of paid leave for
every forty (40) hours worked, up to a minimum of forty (40) hours.
   C.   The Village through its Personnel Policies may make adjustments to
eligibility and accrual rates for various forms of paid leave, including sick
leave, on an ongoing basis without impacting, affecting, or altering this
section, but in no event shall the rights to paid leave provided to employees
be less than what is provided herein.
   D.   The rights of employees working for non-municipal employers within the
Village shall be as stated in the Paid Leave for All Workers Act, 820 ILCS 192/
1 et seq., as may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 2023-O-16, 9-5-2023)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE DEPARTMENT HEADS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2019-O-18, 6-3-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 10 of this Code.
ARTICLE B. FINANCE DIRECTOR 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2014-10, 5-5-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 10 of this Code.
ARTICLE C. LEGAL ADVISORS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2019-O-18, 6-3-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 10 of this Code.
ARTICLE D. VILLAGE ENGINEER 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2019-O-18, 6-3-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 10 of this Code.
CHAPTER 7
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-7-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-7-2: Definitions
1-7-3: Interpretation
1-7-4: Prohibited Acts
1-7-5: Penalties
1-7-6: Amendments
1-7-7: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-7-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/5-15 and 430/10-10 through
430/10-40 of the state officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this
chapter), are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers
and employees of the village to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 430/70-5. (Res. 2004R-09, 5-3-2004)
1-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (Res. 2004R-
09, 5-3-2004)
1-7-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (Res. 2004R-09, 5-3-2004)
1-7-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act by an officer or any employee of the village is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the village under the act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act by any officer or employee of the village is hereby
prohibited. (Res. 2004R-09, 5-3-2004)
1-7-5: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act. (Res. 2004R-09, 5-3-2004)
1-7-6: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Res. 2004R-09, 5-3-2004)
1-7-7: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois supreme court.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Res. 2004R-09, 5-3-2004)
CHAPTER 8
OPEN MEETINGS ACT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Open Meetings Act Compliance
1-8-1: OPEN MEETINGS ACT COMPLIANCE:
   A.   The public shall have the right to speak to the village board under
public comment. Public speaking on such matters, as well as citizen comments,
shall be limited to comments addressed to the board and the public shall not
engage in debate with the members of the board. Public comments provided in
connection with a listed agenda item shall be limited to comments germane to
that agenda item. Persons wishing to speak to an item not listed on the agenda
shall have the right to speak under citizen comments, and may speak to any item
germane to the village or public concerns. The board shall have no obligation
to respond to public comments. Public comments shall be limited to three (3)
minutes per speaker, per agenda item, except by consent of the president.
Speaker request forms should be completed by each member of the public wishing
to speak to the board and submitted to the village clerk before the beginning
of the regular board meeting. In order to ensure accurate recordkeeping,
members of the public are encouraged to provide their address, but provision of
an address shall not be required in order to provide public comment. Where
public comment is provided as a component of a public hearing required by
applicable law, the three (3) minute speaking limitation shall not be enforced,
but the presiding officer at the public hearing shall have the ability to limit
duplicative, cumulative or irrelevant testimony. Testimony received at a public
hearing must be limited in scope to matters germane to the conduct of that
public hearing. Persons who engage in violations of these regulations shall be
asked to conform to the regulations or discontinue their comments and, failing
such remedial action, may be removed from a meeting.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall be read to apply to village board
meetings of the village of Pingree Grove, and also to meetings of all public
committees and subsidiary public bodies of the village including, but not
limited to, the committee of the whole, the planning and zoning commission (and
in such instances, references to the board shall be deemed to refer to the
subsidiary body). The adoption of this subsection shall be deemed to expressly
constitute the adoption of these rules as rules binding upon the conduct of any
meeting of a public body of the village or village board. Any agenda of any
such public body shall be deemed, by the adoption of this section to provide an
opportunity for public comment in accordance with these regulations, whether or
not such opportunity is expressly designated via the public body's meeting
agenda. Persons seeking the opportunity to provide public comment shall notify
the clerk or presiding officer at the meeting at which they seek to comment.
   C.   The chair of any meeting shall be authorized to suspend comments by or
to interrupt any speaker who engages in any disruptive, insulting or unlawful
behavior, and to suspend all or any part of these rules for public comment, to
the extent permitted by law. The chair shall also be permitted to exercise any
authority permitted under other sections of this code, the Illinois municipal
code, or "Roberts Rules Of Order". The chair shall be permitted to promulgate
other rules as deemed necessary to prevent duplicative comments or to ensure
that comments received relate to public business of the village, or the topic
(s) or issue(s) then under discussion. (Ord. 2015-O-15, 6-1-2015)
CHAPTER 9
EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Travel Reimbursement
1-9-2: Travel Reimbursement Limit
1-9-3: Travel Reimbursement For Village Board
1-9-4: Entertainment Prohibited
1-9-1: TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT:
All travel reimbursement and travel expenses incurred by any elected or
appointed official of the village of Pingree Grove or by any employee hereof
shall be conducted only in accordance with the restrictions of this chapter,
and in accordance with the employee manual of the village of Pingree Grove. The
provisions of the "Village Of Pingree Grove Employee Manual" shall be deemed to
be applicable to elected and appointed officials of the village (as well as
village employees), but no other provisions of the employee manual shall apply
to village elected or appointed officials (other than those who are both
appointed officials and also considered to be full or part time employees of
the village, such as the village clerk). (Ord. 2016-O-21, 9-6-2016)
1-9-2: TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT LIMIT:
The village shall not provide reimbursement for any expense incurred in excess
of budgeted amounts, nor for any expense incurred with a total cost in excess
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day of travel (in the aggregate for any
given individual episode of travel). Approval of an expense in excess of these
limits shall require approval through a roll call vote at a properly convened
meeting of the village board, after submission of written documentation in
accordance with section 20 of the local government travel expense control act.
(Ord. 2016-O-21, 9-6-2016)
1-9-3: TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT FOR VILLAGE BOARD:
The village shall not approve of any travel reimbursement for any member of the
village board except through a roll call vote at a properly convened meeting of
the village board. (Ord. 2016-O-21, 9-6-2016)
1-9-4: ENTERTAINMENT PROHIBITED:
The village shall not provide reimbursement for any item of "entertainment" as
defined in the local government travel expense control act. (Ord. 2016-O-21, 9-
6-2016)
CHAPTER 10
MANAGEMENT AND CONSULTANTS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Village Administrative And Contractual Positions
1-10-2: Village Manager
1-10-3: Responsibilities Of All Department Heads
1-10-4: Finance Director
1-10-5: Chief Of Police
1-10-6: Public Works Director
1-10-7: Village Attorney
1-10-8: Village Engineer
1-10-9: Chief Building Official
1-10-10: Village Planner
1-10-11: Other Contractual Services
1-10-12: Community Development Director
1-10-1: VILLAGE ADMINISTRATIVE AND CONTRACTUAL POSITIONS:
   A.   The Village shall employ a Village Manager, as contemplated in Section
1-10-2, below. The Village Manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of the
Corporate Authorities, by virtue of an employment contract approved by the
Corporate Authorities from time to time.
   B.   The Village shall employ the following Department Heads: Finance
Director, Chief of Police and Public Works Director. Selection and appointment
of the Department Heads shall be by the Village Manager with the advice and
consent of the Village Board.
   C.   The Village shall employ such other employees and personnel as may be
authorized by the Village Board pursuant to the then-current adopted budget
from time to time.
   D.   The Village shall utilize the services of such contractual consultants
as may be authorized by the Village Board, Manager or Department Heads, within
their respective authority, from time to time. (Ord. 2019-O-18, 6-3-2019)
1-10-2: VILLAGE MANAGER:
   A.   The Village Manager shall serve as the primary administrative (non-
elective) officer of the Village, and shall faithfully discharge the duties of
that office and exercise such power and authority as is outlined below, as is
necessarily implied from the authority outlined below, or as may be authorized
by the Board from time to time. The Manager shall serve to implement the policy
direction of the Village Board, to advise the Board of options for
consideration of implementation, to manage the day to day operations of the
Village, and to provide professional recommendations to the Board. Any
reference in Village Code to Manager or Administrator shall be deemed to refer
to the Manager.
   B.   The Village Manager shall be selected on the basis of executive and
administrative qualifications, without consideration of race, sex, politics or
religious beliefs. The Manager shall be appointed to a definite or indefinite
term as prescribed by an employment agreement between the Village and the
Manager. Compensation and benefits shall be as prescribed by the employment
agreement, and unless otherwise indicated, the Manager shall be entitled to all
benefits afforded to full-time employees of the Village who are exempt from
payment of overtime benefits under the Fair Labor Standards Act.
   C.   Responsibilities: The Village Manager shall be responsible to the
Corporate Authorities for the proper management of the affairs of the Village.
In discharging this responsibility:
      1.   Supervision: The Manager shall directly supervise the performance of
the Department Heads, shall supervise the performance of all staff under the
Manager's immediate direction, and shall indirectly supervise the performance
of all Village employees and contractors. The Manager shall direct, supervise
and coordinate the administration of all departments, offices and agencies of
the Village, except as otherwise provided by law.
      2.   Enforcement Of Laws: The Manager shall provide for the enforcement
of laws and ordinances within the Village.
      3.   Reports And Communications: The Manager shall make such reports as
the Corporate Authorities may request concerning the operations of the Village,
and shall provide recommendations for reporting where appropriate.
      4.   Procurement And Contracting: The Manager shall be responsible for
procurement of commodities and services for all Village departments and
employees, shall promulgate rules for procurement to be considered for adoption
by the Corporate Authorities, and shall endeavor to comply with all adopted or
otherwise mandatory purchasing policies, laws or ordinances.
      5.   Personnel Rules And Regulations: The Manager shall propose to the
Corporate Authorities such personnel rules and regulations as shall be
necessary or appropriate for the management of Village personnel and resources,
and shall have the authority to implement such policies, rules and regulations
(that are not inconsistent with Board-adopted rules or regulations) as shall be
necessary or advisable for the safe, efficient of effective operation and
governance of Village operations.
      6.   Employment And Disciplinary Actions: Notwithstanding the provisions
of any Village policy or employment handbook, the Manager shall have the
authority to hire, appoint, terminate, suspend, place on paid or unpaid
administrative leave, conduct any required or advisable hearings, or take other
disciplinary action with regard to any Village employee, or to create, modify
or amend job titles and descriptions for any Village employee, as shall be
appropriate under the circumstances. Actions relating to hiring and termination
shall occur only after advising the Village Board.
      7.   Purchasing Authority: The Manager shall have purchasing authority
for contracts and expenses not to exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000). With
the concurrence of the Village President and Finance Director, the Manager
shall have purchasing authority for contracts and expenses not to exceed ten
thousand dollars ($10,000). In the event that a true emergency exists which
requires the expenditure of additional funds, in a circumstance where the
expenditure is unavoidable and delay until a village board meeting is
impractical (e.g., the failure of a lift station pump requiring immediate
repair to maintain sanitary sewer service for the village), the Manager may
authorize an expenditure of up to twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) with the
concurrence of the Village President. All such purchases shall be within then-
presently budgeted sums.
      8.   Finance And Budgeting: In collaboration with the Finance Director,
the Manager shall make such recommendations and reports to the Corporate
Authorities as shall be advisable from time to time, and shall review the
Village's proposed budgets, tax levies, consolidated annual financial reports
and other similar financial or transactional documents for the purpose of
making recommendations to the Corporate Authorities. The Manager shall be
responsible for presentation of the Budget to the Corporate Authorities, and
for securing their feedback and approval.
      9.   Collective Bargaining: The Manager shall be responsible for the
organization and conduct of the Village's collective bargaining processes, and
for presentation of proposed collective bargaining agreements for consideration
by the Corporate Authorities.
      10.   Policies And Regulations: The Manager shall make recommendations to
the Corporate Authorities for the consideration of adoption of policies,
resolutions, ordinances or other regulations as shall be advisable from time to
time, and shall have the authority to implement such policies, rules and
regulations (that are not inconsistent with Board-adopted rules or regulations)
as shall be necessary or advisable for the safe, efficient of effective
operation and governance of Village operations.
      11.   Waiver Of Fees: The Manager shall have the authority to waive
otherwise applicable Village fees, without limitation, for any Village-
initiated project (e.g. building permit fees otherwise applicable to Village
construction). The Manager shall also have the authority to waive fees, charges
or other obligations up to the limit of spending authority as outlined in (C)
(7) above, but shall report all such waivers to the Village Board at the time
of the waiver.
      12.   Resolution Of Claims: The Manager shall have the authority to
settle, resolve or compromise claims where the Village's cost (e.g. deductible,
retention or direct cost) does not exceed the Purchasing Authority contemplated
in (C)(7) above.
      13.   Preparation Of Agenda: The Manager shall oversee the preparation of
the agenda for meetings of the Corporate Authorities, and shall initially
determine which items are listed for consideration on the consent agenda. The
Village President may also require the inclusion of any item on the agendas of
the Corporate Authorities by request, and the Village Board may require the
inclusion of any item on the agendas of the Corporate Authorities by passing a
motion at a meeting, under new business, to request inclusion of the item on a
future agenda.
      14.   Disposal Of Personal Property: The Manager is authorized to dispose
of all personal property that is not property of the Village (i.e., found
items, evidence previously seized, or other similar items not purchased with
village proceeds) in accordance with applicable laws, without any requirement
of prior approval by the village board. With regard to personal property of the
village of Pingree Grove (i.e., items purchased or procured by the village),
such items may be disposed of pursuant to the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-76-4, through sale of property, conversion into useful
form, or trade-in of such property, following Board approval of any such action
with respect to identified property.
      15.   Delegation Of Authority: The Manager may delegate authority
provided herein to any other Village employee when necessary in the performance
of the Village's operations from time to time. In addition, the Manager may
appoint an Acting Village Manager from among the Village's Department Heads, to
exercise the powers contained herein during any time of absence, unavailability
or illness of the Manager.
      16.   Additional Responsibilities: The Manager shall perform such other
duties as may be assigned by the President or Village Board from time to time.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, 6-3-2019)
1-10-3: RESPONSIBILITIES OF ALL DEPARTMENT HEADS:
   A.   Administration And Coordination: Department heads shall direct,
supervise, and coordinate all activities within their department, in accordance
with the directives of the corporate authorities and the approved budget.
Department heads shall also direct and supervise the actions of all employees
within their departments, with all authority being subject to the oversight and
direction of the Manager.
   B.   Discipline Of Employees: Department heads shall have the authority to
discipline employees up to and including issuance of a verbal or written
warning, and including the authority to suspend employees, with pay. Department
heads shall also have the authority to refer employees to the Manager for
further discipline, or to exercise any authority conferred upon them by the
Manager relating to discipline or employment.
   C.   Commodities And Services: Department heads shall be responsible for the
purchase of commodities and services within their respective departments,
subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   Within any applicable budget restrictions;
      2.   Within applicable spending authority;
      3.   Pursuant to the provisions of the then current purchasing policies
of the village; and
      4.   Pursuant to any applicable laws or regulations (e.g., competitive
bidding requirements).
   D.   Contracts: Department heads shall have the authority to enter into
contracts and to bind the village on any agreement or change order, subject to
the following restrictions:
      1.   Any expenditure must be within the then approved budget for the
village.
      2.   Any expenditure must comply with all applicable laws, ordinances or
regulations.
      3.   Any department head acting individually shall have spending
authority up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   E.   Seasonal, Part Time Employees: Department heads shall have the
independent authority to interview, select and hire seasonal, part-time
employees to be employed by the village, without requiring the approval of the
board, provided that the costs of such employees are included within the then
current budget, and provided that the costs incurred do not exceed budgeted
amounts. In the event that costs are anticipated to exceed budgeted amounts at
any time, the department head affected shall notify the board and either reduce
staffing (so as to not exceed the budgeted amounts) or shall request a budget
amendment prior to exceeding budgeted amounts.
   F.   Acting Department Heads: During times of unavailability or illness, a
department head may appoint an acting department head with the consent of the
Manager.
   G.   Other Duties: The department heads shall attend Village Board meetings
and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned from time to time, along
with those duties outlined in any position specific ordinance, code, rule or
regulation. (Ord. 2019-O-18, 6-3-2019)
1-10-4: FINANCE DIRECTOR:
   A.   The Finance Director shall serve as the primary financial officer of
the Village and shall have responsibility and supervision over all employees
assigned to the Finance Department.
   B.   Responsibilities: The Finance Director shall have the following
responsibilities:
      1.   Exercise and perform all financial powers and duties of Finance
Director, Treasurer, Collector or Comptroller pursuant to Village Code, policy
or Illinois law.
      2.   Maintain custody of monies belonging to the Village and ensure that
all funds are properly deposited or invested in accordance with applicable laws
and regulations.
      3.   Maintain the Village's financial records in accordance with Village
ordinances, state or federal regulations, and generally accepted municipal
financial management and accounting practices.
      4.   Pay all warrants, bills or orders properly presented with checks
drawn upon proper funds signed by the President and countersigned by the
Village Manager or Finance Director.
      5.   Ensure the proper, efficient and effective receipt and disbursement
of all Village funds, maintain proper, efficient and effective systems for
accounts receivable (and pursue collection of the same), accounts payable,
payroll, financial reporting, internal financial, administrative and accounting
controls and financial records, and otherwise maintain the Village's financial
systems and perform such activities as are necessary or required by applicable
law, regulation or policy.
      6.   Make such recommendations to the Corporate Authorities and/or
Manager as the Director believes appropriate or advantageous for the Village to
consider for adoption.
      7.   Where the activities of other departments impact upon the Village's
finances or result in the generation of expenses, handling of Village funds, or
generation of accounts receivable, assist the Manager in establishing
appropriate rules and protocols, and immediately notify the Manager of any
deviation from such established rules and protocols.
      8.   Notify the Corporate Authorities and Manager of any material
financial irregularities discovered in or relating to the Village's finances.
      9.   Maintain the Village's Human Resources records and coordinate
employee onboarding, payroll, benefits (including health, dental and related
insurance policies) and related human resources functions.
      10.   Acting individually or with the Manager, serve as signatory and
account representative for the Village on financial, investment, retirement
fund or other similar accounts and also serve as Illinois Municipal Retirement
Fund authorized agent.
      11.   Serve as budget officer for the Village, pursuant to Illinois law
and applicable codes, ordinances and policies.
      12.   Coordinate the approach and utilization of the Village's auditors,
and make recommendations regarding the selection and appropriate utilization of
the same. (Ord. 2019-O-18, 6-3-2019)
1-10-5: CHIEF OF POLICE:
The Chief of Police shall perform those duties and obligations as outlined in
this Chapter, as required by law, or as provided for in Section
6-1-4. (Ord. 2019-O- 18, 6-3-2019)
1-10-6: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
The Public Works Director shall provide for compliance with all applicable laws
and regulations, and in particular shall comply with the regulations governing
the operation and maintenance of the village's public utilities. The public
works director shall also make recommendations to the village board regarding
establishment of policies, funding and reserves for the construction and
maintenance of the village's buildings, capital infrastructure and equipment.
The public works director shall be responsible for the safe, efficient and
professional operation and maintenance of all village public works operations,
including, but not limited to, water, wastewater, street and park operations.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, 6- 3-2019)
1-10-7: VILLAGE ATTORNEY:
The Village Attorney shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in the State
of Illinois, and shall serve as the Village's primary legal advisor. The
Village Attorney may also serve as Village Prosecutor. The Village may, from
time to time with the authorization of the Board, retain additional counsel for
specified projects. The Village may also, without requirement of separate
authorization from the Board, utilize legal counsel provided for by virtue of
the Village's insurance, security or bonds, with such counsel being acceptable
to the Manager. The Village Attorney shall be authorized to represent the
Village in any legal proceeding. With regard to cases that the Attorney
prosecutes, the Attorney shall be authorized to execute prosecutorial
discretion in the prosecution or resolution of any case. The Attorney shall be
further authorized to resolve any ordinance violation prosecution by virtue of
a compliance agreement or settlement agreement on terms appropriate under the
circumstances. (Ord. 2019-O-18, 6-3- 2019)
1-10-8: VILLAGE ENGINEER:
The Village Engineer shall be an individual or firm licensed to practice civil
engineering in the State of Illinois, and shall serve as the Village's primary
engineering advisor. The Engineer shall serve the Village by virtue of a
written agreement approved by the Village Board, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Board, and shall perform those services required by such
agreement or by any additional agreement or amendment thereto, or as requested
by the Village and within the authority of the party requesting. The Engineer
shall regularly advise the Village Board regarding the status of all work being
performed thereby, shall exercise that authority conferred by applicable
Village Codes, and shall work under the direction and supervision of the
Village Manager. (Ord. 2019-O-18, 6- 3-2019)
1-10-9: CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The Chief Building Official shall be an individual or firm with appropriate
credentials to serve in said capacity. The Chief Building Official shall serve
the Village by virtue of a written agreement approved by the Village Board, on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Board, and shall perform those services
required by such agreement or by any additional agreement or amendment thereto,
or as requested by the Village and within the authority of the party
requesting. The Official shall regularly advise the Village Board regarding the
status of all work being performed thereby, shall exercise that authority
conferred by applicable Village Codes, and shall work under the direction and
supervision of the Village Manager. (Ord. 2019-O-18, 6-3-2019)
1-10-10: VILLAGE PLANNER:
The Village Planner shall be an individual or firm with appropriate credentials
to serve in said capacity. The Planner shall serve the Village by virtue of a
written agreement approved by the Village Board, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Board, and shall perform those services required by such
agreement or by any additional agreement or amendment thereto, or as requested
by the Village and within the authority of the party requesting. The Planner
shall regularly advise the Village Board regarding the status of all work being
performed thereby, shall exercise that authority conferred by applicable
Village Codes, and shall work under the direction and supervision of the
Village Manager. (Ord. 2019-O-18, 6- 3-2019)
1-10-11: OTHER CONTRACTUAL SERVICES:
The Village may retain one or more parties to perform additional contractual
services on its behalf from time to time, and such parties shall perform in
accordance with the terms of their respective agreement(s). Nothing contained
herein shall limit the authority of the Village to approve such additional
agreements. (Ord. 2019-O-18, 6-3-2019)
1-10-12: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR:
The Community Development Director shall serve as the building and zoning
officer for the Village. The Community Development Director shall also make
recommendations to the Village Board regarding the establishment of policies,
funding, and planning initiatives for the Village. The Community Development
director shall be responsible for the efficient and professional operation of
the Village's building and zoning services, and facilitation of the Village's
residential and commercial development. The Community Development Director
shall work under the direction and supervision of the Village Manager.
(Ord. 2023-O-23, 11-20-2023)
CHAPTER 11
CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Creation Of A System Of Administrative Adjudication
1-11-2: Establishment Of Code Hearing Unit
1-11-3: Definitions
1-11-4: Requirements Of Hearing Officers
1-11-5: Proceedings For Adjudicatory Proceedings
1-11-6: Hearing; Evidence
1-11-7: Findings, Decision And Order
1-11-8:Review Under Administrative Review Law
1-11-9: Judgment On Findings, Decision And Order
1-11-10: Towing Vehicles
1-11-1: CREATION OF A SYSTEM OF ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION:
   The Village of Pingree Grove pursuant to Article I, Division 2.1 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2.1-1 et seq., hereby establishes a system
of administrative adjudication, subject to the limitations of this Chapter,
that provides due process of law, including notice and an opportunity for a
hearing for all affected persons. In the event a conflict between this Chapter
and Article 1, Division 2.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code exists, then the
Illinois Municipal Code shall prevail.
(Ord. 2025-O-05, 4-7-2025)
1-11-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF CODE HEARING UNIT:
   A.   There is hereby established a Code Hearing Unit within the Village that
is responsible for conducting adjudicatory hearings, exercising the powers
conferred in this Chapter and in the manner set out in this Chapter.
   B.   The Code Hearing Unit shall have jurisdiction to adjudicate all alleged
violations of the Code, except for: (i) proceedings not within the statutory
authority of the Village; (ii) any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code or a
similar offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of
vehicles; and, (iii) any reportable offense under Section 6-204 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
   C.   The establishment of the Code Hearing Unit does not preclude the
Village from using other methods to enforce the provisions of its Code.
   D.   The Code Hearing Unit shall consist of one or more Hearing Officers, as
that term is defined herein, and such other agents or employees assigned to
assist the Hearing Officer by the Village.
(Ord. 2025-O-05, 4-7-2025)
1-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
For this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS: Any hearing called by the Code Hearing Unit pursuant to
this Chapter.
CODE: The Village of Pingree Grove's Code of Ordinances.
CODE HEARING UNIT: Is defined in Section
1-11-2, herein.
COMPLAINT: A written pleading, filed with the Code Hearing Unit by an
authorized official of the Village, which alleges a violation of the Code.
FINAL ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER: Is defined in Section
1-11-7, herein.
HEARING OFFICER: An agent of the Village whose duty it is to:
   1.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the existence of
an alleged violation of the Code;
   2.   Issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the adjudicatory hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
   3.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the adjudicatory hearing and
all exhibits and evidence introduced at the adjudicatory hearing;
   4.   Issue a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
adjudicatory hearing, of whether or not a violation of the Code exists; and
   5.   Impose penalties consistent with applicable provisions of the Code and
assess costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation, except,
however, that in no event shall the Hearing Officer have authority to (i)
impose a penalty of incarceration; or, (ii) impose a fine either in excess of
$50,000, or such other amount not to exceed the maximum amount established by
the Mandatory Arbitration System as prescribed by the Rules of the Illinois
Supreme Court from time to time for the judicial circuit in which the Village
is located. Any such fine imposed under this Chapter shall be exclusive of
costs of enforcement or costs imposed to secure compliance with the Code and
shall not be applicable to cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed
and collected by the Village.
NON-EMERGENCY SITUATION: Any situation that does not reasonably constitute a
threat to the public interest, safety, or welfare.
(Ord. 2025-O-05, 4-7-2025)
1-11-4: REQUIREMENTS OF HEARING OFFICERS:
   A.   Any attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois for at
least three (3) years may be a Hearing Officer, provided that he or she
complies with the provisions of this Section.
   B.   Prior to conducting adjudicatory hearings, Hearing Officers shall have
successfully completed a formal training program which includes the following:
      1.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative hearings
which they will conduct;
      2.   Orientation to each subject area of the Code violations that they
will adjudicate;
      3.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
      4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
   C.   A person who has served as a judge in Illinois is not required to
fulfill the requirements of subsection (B), herein.
   D.   Any person seeking to be appointed as a Hearing Officer for the Village
must present evidence of his or her compliance with this Section to the
corporate authorities, in such form as deemed appropriate by the corporate
authorities.
(Ord. 2025-O-05, 4-7-2025)
1-11-5: PROCEEDINGS FOR ADJUDICATORY PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   The filing of the Complaint shall serve to institute proceedings before
the Code Hearing Unit.
   B.   Parties shall be served with process in a manner reasonably calculated
to give actual notice. For the purposes of this Chapter, "a manner reasonably
calculated to give actual notice" shall mean, as appropriate, personal service
of process upon a party, its employee, or its agent; service by first-class
mail at a party's address; or notice that is posted upon the property where the
alleged Code violation is found when the party is the owner or manager of the
property. If the Village requires the party to respond to the Complaint within
a specified amount of time, the Village shall file a reply with the Code
Hearing Unit within the same amount of time afforded to the party responding to
the Complaint.
   C.   Parties shall be given notice of any adjudicatory hearing. Said notice
must, at a minimum, include: (i) the type and nature of the Code violation to
be adjudicated; (ii) the date and location of the adjudicatory hearing; (iii)
the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the adjudicatory hearing is to
be held; and, (iv) the penalties for failure to appear at the adjudicatory
hearing.
   D.   Parties shall be provided with an opportunity for an adjudicatory
hearing during which they may be represented by counsel, present witnesses and
cross-examine opposing witnesses. Parties may request the Hearing Officer to
issue subpoenas to direct the attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses,
as well as the production of relevant documents.
   E.   Adjudicatory hearings shall be scheduled with reasonable promptness,
provided that for adjudicatory hearings scheduled in all non-emergency
situations, if requested by the defendant, the defendant shall have at least
fifteen (15) days after service of process to prepare for an adjudicatory
hearing. If service is provided by mail, the fifteen (15) day period shall
begin to run on the day that the notice is deposited in the mail.
(Ord. 2025-O-05, 4-7-2025)
1-11-6: HEARING; EVIDENCE:
   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not be applied in an
adjudicatory hearing under this Chapter. The Hearing Officer may accept any
evidence, including hearsay, if it is of a type commonly relied upon by
reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
(Ord. 2025-O-05, 4-7-2025)
1-11-7: FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER:
   A.   At the conclusion of the adjudicatory hearing, the Hearing Officer
shall make a determination (the "Final Administrative Decision"), based on the
evidence presented at the adjudicatory hearing, of whether or not a violation
of the Code exists. The Final Administrative Decision shall be in writing and
shall include a written finding of fact, decision and order including the fine,
penalty or action with which the defendant must comply.
   B.   A copy of the Final Administrative Decision shall be served on the
Parties within five days after issuance. The Final Administrative Decision
shall be served in a manner allowed by Section 1
1-11-5(B), unless the parties agree to an alternative form of service.
   C.   Payment of any penalty or fine and the disposition of fine money shall
be in the same manner as set forth in the Code.
(Ord. 2025-O-05, 4-7-2025)
1-11-8: REVIEW UNDER ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW:
   Any Final Administrative Decision by a Code Hearing Unit, that a Code
violation does or does not exist, shall constitute a final determination for
purposes of judicial review and shall be subject to review under the Illinois
Administrative Review Law, 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
(Ord. 2025-O-05, 4-7-2025)
1-11-9: JUDGMENT ON FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER:
   A.   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction, or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the Illinois Administrative
Review Law are a debt due and owing the Village and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law may be sought for a Final Administrative
Decision of a Code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the findings, decision, and order of the Hearing Officer may be
enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   C.   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a judgment
ordering a defendant to correct a Code violation or imposing any fine or other
sanction as a result of a Code violation, any expenses incurred by a Village to
enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney's fees, court
costs and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure, after they are
fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a Hearing Officer, shall be a
debt due and owing the Village and may be collected in accordance with
applicable law. Prior to any expenses being fixed by a Hearing Officer pursuant
to this subsection, the Village shall provide notice to the defendant that
states that the defendant shall appear at a hearing before the Hearing Officer
to determine whether the defendant has failed to comply with the judgment. The
notice shall set the date for such a hearing, which shall not be less than
seven days from the date that notice is served. If notice is served by mail,
the seven-day period shall begin to run on the date that the notice was
deposited in the mail.
   D.   Upon being recorded in the manner required by Article XII of the Code
of Civil Procedure, 735 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq., or by the Uniform Commercial
Code, 810 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., a lien shall be imposed on the real estate or
personal estate, or both, of the defendant in the amount of any debt due and
owing the Village under this Chapter. The lien may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   E.   A Hearing Officer may set aside any judgment entered by default and set
a new hearing date, upon petition filed within twenty one (21) days after the
issuance of the order of default, if the Hearing Officer determines that the
defendant's failure to appear at the adjudicatory hearing was for cause or at
any time if the defendant establishes that the Village did not provide proper
service of process. If any judgment is set aside pursuant to this subsection,
the Hearing Officer shall have the authority to enter an order extinguishing
any lien that has been recorded for any debt due and owing the Village as a
result of the vacated default judgment.
   F.   If a Defendant is determined to be liable in a judgment issued by a
Hearing Officer, such Defendant shall pay to the Village an administrative
hearing fee of up to fifty dollars ($50.00), in addition to any other amounts
owed to the Village as penalties for ordinance violations.
(Ord. 2025-O-05, 4-7-2025)
1-11-10: TOWING VEHICLES:
   A.   Authority To Tow: The Police Department and all members thereof are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle illegally parked in any
place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks
the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any
emergency vehicle, any vehicle parked in a handicapped parking space without
the display of an appropriate State issued handicapped license plate or
placard, or any vehicle which has been parked in any public street or other
public place in violation of any Village or State Statute or ordinance, or is
parked in a no parking zone which has been posted "No Parking-Tow Away Zone".
The provisions of this Section shall authorize the towing and impounding of
vehicles, within the Village of Pingree Grove. This Section shall not impair
the authority provided under any other applicable Village Ordinance or
Regulation, but rather shall be read to provide additional authority to
authorized Village employees, to have vehicles towed and impounded.
   B.   Certain Grounds For Towing: Village of Pingree Grove Police Officers,
Code Enforcement Officers and their authorized designees shall be authorized to
have a vehicle towed and impounded as authorized under any other applicable
Village Ordinance or Regulation, and also under the following conditions:
      1.   A vehicle is involved in a traffic stop or is otherwise stopped
during or as a component of the investigation of a potential traffic or
criminal violation, which investigation results in the arrest of the driver of
the vehicle.
      2.   A vehicle is illegally parked upon or is illegally trespassing upon
property owned by the Village of Pingree Grove, other than a roadway or public
right of way.
      3.   A vehicle is reasonably believed to have been the scene of a crime
or is reasonably believed to have or contain evidence of a crime or other
unlawful activity.
      4.   A vehicle is subject to being seized or towed under any applicable
federal, state or local ordinance, statute, code or regulation.
      5.   A vehicle is subject to being towed and impounded based upon the
accrual of a sufficient number of parking tickets, and issuance of appropriate
notices, under applicable Village Ordinance.
      6.   A vehicle is parked in a location that presents an immediate and
unwarranted threat to public health, welfare or safety, including but not
limited to:
         a.   Vehicles parked in front of fire hydrants, fire doors, fire
lanes, or other similar locations.
         b.   Vehicles parked in a location so as to block ingress or egress
from any Fire Protection District, Police Department or Public Works Department
building or parking lot.
         c.   Vehicles parked in a location so as to block ingress or egress
from any hospital, urgent care center or other emergency medical facility.
         d.   Vehicles parked within a roadway (other than within a designated
parking zone).
         e.   Vehicles on or in dangerously close proximity to railroad tracks.
         f.   Vehicles that are on or in close proximity to a public right of
way, that have become immobilized due to mechanical difficulty, weather
conditions, or for any other cause.
         g.   Vehicles in such other location that is determined, by the
Village agent or employee ordering the towing, to be unsafe or unlawful, in
their absolute and sole discretion.
         h.   Vehicles which are otherwise eligible for towing under applicable
federal, state or local laws.
      7.   A vehicle is illegally parked on private property for which the
Village has a valid traffic enforcement agreement that permits towing without
property owner notification or consent or is illegally parked on private
property and the property owner consents to the tow.
      8.   Vehicles that are hazardous in the determination of a Village police
officer. The Village of Pingree Grove has formally determined that there are
certain characteristics which are among the types of concerns that create
traffic hazards and impede traffic on streets within the Village. A vehicle
with one or more of these characteristics is thus deemed to be a hazardous
vehicle subject to immediate towing. The characteristics that create a
hazardous vehicle include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Vehicles with broken windows;
         b.   Vehicles with obvious safety hazards;
         c.   Vehicles that are leaking any fuel or fluids onto the roadway;
         d.   Vehicles parked on private property and leaking fluids in a
fashion that endangers any environmentally sensitive area, storm sewer or other
property;
         e.   Vehicles missing any equipment required by law for legal
operation on the roadway; vehicles without properly displayed license plates
and valid registration;
         f.   Vehicles with missing or flat tires; and
         g.   Vehicles that are clearly inoperable or incapable of being moved
under their own power.
   C.   Towing And Impoundment: Any Village agent or employee authorized to
order the towing of a vehicle under this Section may utilize a towing
contractor who maintains a towing agreement with the Village. Any vehicle towed
or impounded under this Section shall be retained by the party towing the
vehicle until: i) all outstanding fines, penalties, fees, interest, or other
charges whatsoever have been paid to the Village and the party towing the
vehicle, in full; ii) the vehicle is ordered to be released from impound by the
an Administrative Hearing Officer having authority over the matter; iii) the
vehicle is ordered to be released from impound by a Court having jurisdiction
over the matter; or, iv) the vehicle is ordered to be released from impound by
the Police Chief, or their designee.
      1.   Towing Rotation And Agreement: The Police Chief shall be authorized
to enter into one or more towing agreements with properly licensed and equipped
private towing companies, to provide for the towing of vehicles in accordance
with this Section or any other applicable code, ordinance, statute or
regulation. Such agreements shall be entered into on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Police Chief. Any party that provides towing services to the
Village under such an agreement shall comply with the Agreement in full, and
shall be responsible to the Village for any costs or expenses incurred, or
fines and penalties lost, as a result of the improper release of a vehicle from
impoundment. The Chief of Police is and shall be authorized to maintain a tow
rotation list for towing services to be utilized by the Police Department and
other Village departments, when it is necessary to tow any vehicle within the
Village or within the jurisdictional area covered by the Police Department or
any other Village department. The Police Chief shall review the tow rotation on
a periodic basis. The Police Chief may suspend or remove any company from the
tow rotation in his sole and absolute discretion, based upon the performance of
the company, compliance with the Qualifications established by the Chief, or
other factors he deems appropriate. Any such removal may be appealed to the
Village Board by submitting a written request for the same within five (5) days
of the issuance of the Police Chiefs notice of suspension or removal. Inclusion
on the tow rotation list is not a property right and there is no expectation of
continuing service generated by inclusion on the list; the Village reserves the
right to suspend or remove a towing service from the tow rotation at any time,
for any reason.
   D.   Interference With Towing: It shall be unlawful to interfere with any
towing company engaged in lawful towing activities, within the Village of
Pingree Grove, or to engage in disorderly conduct or other unlawful behavior in
an attempt to prevent the towing of a vehicle that is eligible for towing. It
shall further be unlawful to improperly stop payment or attempt to reverse
charges on any form of payment provided to a towing company which has lawfully
towed a vehicle. A violation of this Section is punishable by a fine of not
less than two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00), unless the violation is
interfering with lawful towing activities initiated by the Village (i.e.
Village ordered towing or towing from public property), in which case the
minimum fine shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   E.   Storage And Redemption; Costs:
      1.   Vehicles so towed away shall be stored on any Village property or in
a public garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator
thereof after payment of the expenses incurred by the Village in removing and
storing such vehicles.
      2.   Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-207, and other
provisions of this title, any vehicle impounded or caused to be towed or
removed by the Village shall not be released to the owner, lienholder, or other
person until all towing and storage charges have been paid. There shall be
assessed a towing charge of five hundred dollars ($500.00) in addition to any
and all other fines and penalties herein provided. In the event that such
owner, lienholder or other person seeks to challenge any fine or charge imposed
under this section
1-11-10, such owner, lienholder or other person shall file a complaint setting
forth in reasonable detail and basis explaining the challenge of such fine or
charge with the Code Hearing Unit and an adjudicatory hearing shall be
scheduled and conducted in accordance with section
1-11-5, Proceedings for Adjudicatory hearing.
(Ord. 2025-O-05, 4-7-2025)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Membership; Appointment; Qualifications
2-1-2: Term Of Office
2-1-3: Officers
2-1-4: Meetings And Quorum
2-1-5: Powers And Duties
2-1-6: Compensation
2-1-1: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
The planning and zoning commission (commission) shall consist of seven (7)
members who shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the
board of trustees. All members shall be residents of the village. Such members
shall have qualifications as determined by the mayor. Any vacancies occurring
in the commission shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired portion of
the term remaining. (Ord. 2012-08, 5-7-2012)
2-1-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
   A.   Initial Term Of Office: For the members initially appointed to the
planning and zoning commission, three (3) shall have a term of office of three
(3) years; two (2) shall have a term of office of two (2) years; and two (2)
shall have a term of office of one year. In addition, such initially appointed
members shall serve for the period of time between their appointment and the
first Monday in June; the calculation of their term of office shall be based
upon a termination date of the first Monday in June of the year of termination
of their term of office. For initial appointments, the mayor shall determine
which appointees serve for which term.
   B.   Subsequent Terms: Following the initial term of office for appointed
members of the planning and zoning commission, all members shall each be
appointed for a term of three (3) years. The terms of all members shall expire
on the first Monday in June in the last year of their respective terms,
regardless of the actual date of their appointment. Members whose terms have
expired may continue to serve until a successor is appointed.
   C.   Publication: The village shall take such actions as shall be necessary
to maintain records and publicize the terms of the planning and zoning
commission members, including, but not limited to, publicizing such records on
the village's website. (Ord. 2012-08, 5-7-2012)
2-1-3: OFFICERS:
The mayor shall, at the time of appointment of planning and zoning commission
members, designate one member to serve as chairman. Said chairman shall serve
until his term of office expires, or until a successor chairman is designated
by the mayor. (Ord. 2012-08, 5-7-2012)
2-1-4: MEETINGS AND QUORUM:
The commission shall meet at such times as it may determine. Special meetings
may be called by the mayor, the chair or by any four (4) members of the
commission. A majority of the commission members then holding office shall
constitute a quorum. Final action shall be taken upon measures before the
commission with a concurrence of a majority of the members present, provided a
quorum is present. (Ord. 2012-08, 5-7-2012)
2-1-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission shall have the following duties and powers:
   A.   Prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities a comprehensive plan
for the present and future development or redevelopment of the village. Such
plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional parts,
each of which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan, or part
thereof, of the village. This plan may include reasonable requirements with
reference to streets, alleys, public grounds, and other improvements
hereinafter specified. The plan, as recommended by the commission and as
thereafter adopted, may be made applicable, by the terms thereof, to land
situated within the corporate limits and contiguous territory not more than one
and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not included in any
municipality. Such plan may be implemented by ordinances to implement the
provisions of subsections B through M of this section.
   B.   Establish reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for
resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in
respect to public improvements as herein defined.
   C.   Establish reasonable requirements governing the location, width,
course, and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
stormwater drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage
collection and treatment.
   D.   Designate land suitable for annexation to the village and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   E.   Recommend changes, from time to time, in the official comprehensive
plan.
   F.   Prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities plans for specific
improvements in pursuance of the official comprehensive plan.
   G.   Give aid to the municipal officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of these projects, and generally, to promote the realization of the
official comprehensive plan.
   H.   Advise the board of trustees, other boards and commissions,
neighborhood organizations, developers, and the general public regarding
policies, standards and ordinances associated with planning and development
matters.
   I.   Hold public hearings and meetings, as appropriate, and make findings
and recommendations to the board of trustees concerning annexations, text and
map amendments to the zoning ordinance, planned developments, conditional and
special uses, variations which are associated with a map amendment, and
subdivisions.
   J.   Hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the building commissioner under this code, and thus serve
as building code board of appeals as required from time to time.
   K.   Hear and make recommendations to the board regarding proposed zoning
variations.
   L.   Hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is required
to pass under any code of the village or statute of the state of Illinois,
either as a planning and zoning commission, or as a building code board of
appeals or zoning board of appeals.
   M.   Have other powers and duties concerning planning and development
matters as may be assigned from time to time by the board of trustees. The
planning and zoning commission may utilize the services of village staff and
consultants as shall be determined to be appropriate by the village board,
mayor, or village administrator. (Ord. 2012-08, 5-7-2012)
2-1-6: COMPENSATION:
Members of the planning and zoning commission shall be compensated for such
service to the village at the rate of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for each
meeting so attended. (Ord. 2012-08, 5-7-2012)
CHAPTER 2
PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-2-1: Establishment
2-2-2: Membership
2-2-3: Powers And Duties
2-2-4: Funding And Undertakings
2-2-5: Volunteers
2-2-6: Reporting And Record Keeping
2-2-7: Compensation
2-2-8: Vacancies
2-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
It is hereby established a standing committee which shall be known as the Park
Advisory Committee ("committee") for the purpose of planning, reviewing and
guiding improvements in the Village of Pingree Grove parks. The committee shall
make its findings and recommendations to the Village Board. (Ord. 2017-O-02, 2-
23-2017)
2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The membership of the committee shall be composed of 2 - 7 members who shall be
residents of Pingree Grove. The members shall be appointed by the Village
President with the advice and consent of the Village Board. One of the members
shall be appointed Chairperson by the Village President with the advice and
consent of the Village Board.
The members shall be appointed to definite terms as determined by the Village
President. (Ord. 2017-O-02, 2-23-2017)
2-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Park Advisory Committee shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To serve as a steering committee to guide and oversee planning studies
that directly and exclusively relate to Village parks, primarily including the
proposed park adjacent to the Heritage District.
   B.   To implement, oversee and monitor the strategies and goals that are
described in the approved plans for such parks.
   C.   To advise the Village Board on matters that impact the parks including:
environment and physical image; arts, culture, heritage and entertainment;
marketing and business development; media and community relations; safety;
housing; neighborhood and community development; transportation and parking.
   D.   To investigate matters related to the development and progress of the
parks and make recommendations to the Village Board on such matters.
   E.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no member of the committee shall have
any authority to take any action on his or her own; all actions of the
committee shall be taken only by a majority vote of a quorum of the committee.
Further, the committee's role shall be advisory in nature, and the Village is
not delegating any of its statutory authority to the committee. (Ord. 2017-O-
02, 2-23-2017)
   F.   The committee shall have the authority to solicit and raise funds for
official purposes of the Village, relating to the acquisition, construction or
maintenance of Village parks and related facilities ("park purposes"). All
funds so raised by the committee, whether by grant, donation or other form of
fundraising, shall be segregated for park purposes and shall not be utilized
for any other purposes. The Finance Director shall be authorized and directed
to ascertain a method of properly securing such funds accordingly. Expenditure
of such funds shall require a positive recommendation from the committee and
approval of the Village Board. (Ord. 2018-O-12, 6-4-2018)
2-2-4: FUNDING AND UNDERTAKINGS:
The committee shall not have the authority to execute any contract, agreement
or undertaking, nor the power to incur any debts or liabilities on behalf of
the Village, except with the express, written approval of the Corporate
Authorities of the Village. (Ord. 2017-O-02, 2-23-2017)
2-2-5: VOLUNTEERS:
The committee is authorized to enlist the volunteer services of such other
members of the community who will assist in advancing the goals and objectives
of the Village as described in adopted plans with the recognition that broad
community involvement will assure broad community support. (Ord. 2017-O-02, 2-
23-2017)
2-2-6: REPORTING AND RECORD KEEPING:
The committee shall comply in all respects with the Open Meetings Act 1  and
shall keep comprehensive minutes of all meetings which describe clearly and
completely each and every subject discussed at said meeting and any action
taken by the committee. Copies of said minutes shall be provided to the Village
Clerk together with any support data, documents and attachments. The committee
shall meet as necessary to fulfill its duties and responsibilities. The
committee shall select, from among its members, a Secretary to generate and
keep appropriate minutes and to liaison with the Village Clerk to ensure
compliance with the Open Meetings Act. (Ord. 2017-O-02, 2-23-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2-2-7: COMPENSATION:
Members shall not be compensated for their service on the committee. (Ord.
2017-O-02, 2-23-2017)
2-2-8: VACANCIES:
If a vacancy occurs on the committee, said vacancy may be filled by the
appointment of a member by the Village President with the advice and consent of
the Village Board. (Ord. 2017-O-02, 2-23-2017)
CHAPTER 3
COMMUNITY EVENTS COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-3-1: Established; Purpose
2-3-2: Membership; Appointment; Terms Of Office
2-3-3: Vacancies In Office
2-3-4: Powers And Duties
2-3-5: Funding And Undertakings
2-3-6: Volunteers
2-3-7: Meetings And Records
2-3-8: Compensation
2-3-1: ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE:
There is hereby established a standing committee which shall be known as the
community events committee ("committee") for the purpose of scheduling,
planning, organizing, fundraising for and overseeing community events that
shall be open to the enjoyment of all village residents and the general public.
(Ord. 2010-08, 4-19-2010)
2-3-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE:
The committee shall be composed of members who shall be residents of the
village. The members shall be appointed by the village president, with the
advice and consent of the village board. One of the members shall be appointed
chairperson by the village president, with the advice and consent of the
village board. Members shall be appointed to terms of office as shall be
required to provide for revolving three (3) year terms, with a roughly
equivalent number of persons' terms expiring each year. The total membership of
the committee shall be determined based upon the then current number of
appointees to the committee, and the number of then current appointees shall
also be utilized to determine quorum requirements.
Each member shall serve until his or her respective successor is appointed and
qualifies. Each term of office shall commence on May 1. Upon expiration of a
member's term, successors shall be appointed for three (3) year terms by the
village president, with the advice and consent of the village board. (Ord.
2016-O-09, 5-2-2016)
2-3-3: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
If a vacancy occurs on the committee, said vacancy may be filled by the
appointment of a member by the village president, with the advice and consent
of the village board. (Ord. 2010-08, 4-19-2010)
2-3-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The community events committee shall have the following powers and
duties:
      1.   To schedule, plan and organize events that will be open to the
enjoyment of all village residents and the general public.
      2.   To raise funding through a variety of legal and appropriate means
including sponsorship, solicitations of donations, sales and raffles conducted
in accordance with village ordinances.
         a.   Funds raised through the committee's efforts shall be deposited
into a designated account managed by the finance director and maintained
separate and apart from public funds. The finance director and committee
chairperson shall be signatories on the account.
         b.   All fundraising efforts shall be conducted in accordance with
state and local ordinances.
      3.   To solicit and negotiate proposals and contracts to engage acts or
activities which will be a component to an organized community event. The
committee shall have no authority to bind the village in any way.
      4.   To coordinate the use of village parks, amenities and resources and
staff support with the village manager. Express consent of the village manager
shall be required before any village staff are assigned or utilized to assist
with any event.
      5.   To authorize the release of funds from the designated account
described in subsection A2 of this section for approved purposes related to the
scheduling, planning, organizing and engagement of community events. All
purchases shall be subject to the established purchasing policies of the
village and to the following:
         a.   Purchases or contracts over one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) must
be approved by the village manager or finance director (which approval shall
not be unreasonably withheld).
         b.   Any purchases made using the village tax exemption shall be
approved in advance by the village manager or finance director (which approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld).
         c.   Purchases of alcohol, tobacco or other products which, by law,
are regulated by the age of the user shall be prohibited.
         d.   A corresponding receipt, bill of sale, contract or other purchase
documentation shall be submitted to the finance director within a reasonable
time after the purchase has been made.
   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, no member of
the committee shall have any authority to take any action on his or her own.
All actions of the committee shall be taken only by a majority vote of a quorum
of the committee. Further, the committee's role shall be limited to the powers
and duties described herein and as may be extended from time to time by the
village board, and the village is not delegating any of its statutory authority
to the committee. (Ord. 2010-08, 4-19-2010)
2-3-5: FUNDING AND UNDERTAKINGS:
The committee shall not have the authority to execute any contract, agreement
or undertaking, nor the power to incur any debts or liabilities on behalf of
the village, except with the express, written approval of the corporate
authorities of the village or, if within the authority of the village manager,
with the express permission of the village manager. (Ord. 2010-08, 4-19-2010)
2-3-6: VOLUNTEERS:
The committee is authorized to enlist the volunteer services of such other
members of the community who will assist in advancing the goals and objectives
of the community events committee. (Ord. 2010-08, 4-19-2010)
2-3-7: MEETINGS AND RECORDS:
The committee shall comply in all respects with the open meetings act 1  and
shall keep comprehensive minutes of all meetings which describe clearly and
completely each and every subject discussed at said meeting and any action
taken by the committee. Copies of said minutes shall be provided to the village
clerk, together with any support data, documents and attachments. The committee
shall meet as necessary to fulfill its duties and responsibilities. The
committee shall select, from among its members, a secretary to generate and
keep appropriate minutes and to liaison with the village clerk to ensure
compliance with the open meetings act. (Ord. 2010-08, 4-19-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2-3-8: COMPENSATION:
Members shall not be compensated for their service on the committee. Members
are eligible to receive approved travel, training and per diem reimbursements
in accordance with the village personnel policies and procedures only with
advanced approval from the village manager. (Ord. 2010-08, 4-19-2010)
CHAPTER 4
COMMUNITY GARDEN ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-4-1: Established; Purpose
2-4-2: Membership; Appointment; Terms Of Office
2-4-3: Powers And Duties
2-4-4: Funding And Undertakings
2-4-5: Volunteers
2-4-6: Meetings And Records
2-4-7: Compensation
2-4-8: Vacancies
2-4-1: ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE:
It is hereby established a standing committee which shall be known as the
community garden advisory committee ("committee") for the purpose of planning,
reviewing and suggesting methods of establishing, operating and maintaining a
set of community gardens in the village of Pingree Grove. The committee shall
make its findings and recommendations to the village board. (Ord. 2011-13, 6-6-
2011)
2-4-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE:
The membership of the committee shall be composed of seven (7) members who
shall be residents of Pingree Grove. The members shall be appointed by the
village president with the advice and consent of the village board. One of the
seven (7) members may be appointed chairperson by the village president with
the advice and consent of the village board.
Of the seven (7) members appointed, three (3) shall have an initial term of
office of three (3) years, two (2) shall have an initial term of office of two
(2) years, and two (2) shall have an initial term of office of one year.
Thereafter, each term of office shall be three (3) years. Each member shall
serve until his or her respective successor is appointed and qualifies. Each
term of office shall commence on July 1.
Upon expiration of a member's term, successors shall be appointed for three (3)
year terms by the village president, with the advice and consent of the village
board.
The village president may, but shall not be obligated to, select and appoint
one of the seven (7) members of the committee to serve as chairman of the
committee for purposes of serving as chairperson of any committee meetings. In
the event the president fails to appoint a chairperson, the committee shall
nominate and approve, by majority vote, a chairperson to serve until such time
as the president appoints a member to so serve. In the event the chairperson
selected by the village president fails to attend any meeting of the committee,
the committee shall nominate and approve, by majority vote, a chairperson pro
tem to serve until the next meeting thereof. (Ord. 2011-13, 6-6-2011)
2-4-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The community garden advisory committee shall have the following powers and
duties:
   A.   To serve as a steering committee to guide and oversee proposed programs
and activities related to the community garden.
   B.   To advise the village board on matters that impact the community garden
including: land selection and utilization; fencing and access control; use of
fertilizers, herbicides, insecticides and chemicals; coordination of gardening
programs with local food banks/charities; establishment of cooperative
educational programs for local students; maintenance and operation of gardens;
delineation of garden plots; methods of allocating garden plots to village
residents or others; requests for expansion or alteration of garden areas;
cooperation and interaction with village public works employees; and related
matters.
   C.   To investigate matters related to the community garden and make
recommendations to the village board on such matters.
   D.   To propose regulations for adoption by the village board, relating to
the items described in subsection B of this section.
   E.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no member of the committee shall have
any authority to take any action on his or her own; all actions of the
committee shall be taken only by a majority vote of a quorum of the committee.
Further, the committee's role shall be advisory in nature, and the village is
not delegating any of its statutory authority to the committee. Selection or
appointment to the committee shall not authorize a member of the committee to
exercise any unique authority relative to the community gardens. (Ord. 2011-13,
6-6-2011)
2-4-4: FUNDING AND UNDERTAKINGS:
The committee shall not have the authority to execute any contract, agreement
or undertaking, nor the power to incur any debts or liabilities on behalf of
the village, except with the express, written approval of the corporate
authorities of the village or, if within the authority of the village manager
or administrator, with the express permission of the village manager or
administrator. (Ord. 2011-13, 6-6-2011)
2-4-5: VOLUNTEERS:
The committee is authorized to enlist the volunteer services of such other
members of the community who will assist in advancing the goals and objectives
of the community garden as described by the village board or village
administrator. (Ord. 2011-13, 6-6-2011)
2-4-6: MEETINGS AND RECORDS:
The committee shall comply in all respects with the open meetings act 1 . One
member of the committee shall be nominated and selected, by majority vote, as
secretary of the committee; the secretary shall keep comprehensive minutes of
all meetings which describe clearly and completely each and every subject
discussed at said meeting and any action taken by the committee. Copies of said
minutes shall be provided to the village clerk together with any support data,
documents and attachments. The committee shall meet as necessary to fulfill its
duties and responsibilities. (Ord. 2011-13, 6-6-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2-4-7: COMPENSATION:
Members shall not be compensated for their service on the committee and are not
eligible for reimbursement of any expenses except with the advance, written
consent of the village board or village manager or administrator. (Ord. 2011-
13, 6-6-2011)
2-4-8: VACANCIES:
If a vacancy occurs on the committee, said vacancy may be filled by the
appointment of a member by the village president with the advice and consent of
the village board. (Ord. 2011-13, 6-6-2011)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-5-1: Board Of Police Commissioners Established
2-5-2: Membership And Terms Of Board Of Police Commissioners
2-5-3: Meetings Of Board Of Police Commissioners
2-5-4: Powers And Duties Of Board Of Police Commissioners
2-5-5: General Provisions
2-5-1: BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS ESTABLISHED:
To provide for the safety and protection of residents through the employment of
highly qualified and professional sworn officers of the police department, and
in accordance with Illinois state statutes, the board of police commissioners
is hereby established in the Village. (Ord. 2021-O-20, 12-6-2021)
2-5-2: MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS OF BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Board Membership: The board of police commissioners shall consist of
three (3) members, all of whom shall reside within the corporate boundaries of
the Village of Pingree Grove. All members shall be appointed by the president
with the advice and consent of the Village Board.
   B.   Officers: Each member of the board of police commissioners shall be
considered officers of the Village and shall file an oath and a fidelity bond
in such amount as from time to time may be required by the Village Board.
   C.   Term of Office: With respect to the initial members of the board, one
of the members shall be appointed to serve until the end of the Village's
municipal year, another shall serve until the end of the year next ensuing, and
the third to serve until the end of the year second next ensuing. Thereafter,
the term of office for all members, including the chair, shall be for three (3)
years.
   D.   Vacancy: Any vacancy shall be filled through appointment by the Village
President with the advice and consent of the Village Board, but only for the
unexpired portion of the vacated term.
   E.   Chair: The chair shall be elected by the members of the board to serve
during the Village fiscal year. It shall be the duty of the chair to conduct
all meetings of the commission and to represent the board at Village Board
meetings as from time to time may be necessary.
   F.   Vice Chair: The membership of the board of police commissioners shall
elect a vice chair from among its membership at the first meeting of each year.
   G.   Secretary: The administrative assistant to the chief of police or his
or her designee shall serve as secretary and maintain minutes and records of
regular and special meetings and regularly provide such records to the Village
Board. (Ord. 2021-O-20, 12-6-2021)
2-5-3: MEETINGS OF BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   The board of police commissioners shall meet from time to time as may
be determined by the chair or, a majority, of the board.
   B.   Notice of a board of police commissioners meeting shall be given in
writing to each member of the board at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to
the time set for the meeting. Additionally, notice of the meeting shall be
posted in a conspicuous place in the police department not less than forty-
eight (48) hours prior to any board meeting. (Ord. 2021-O-20, 12-6-2021)
2-5-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS:
The board of police commissioners shall have the following powers and duties
pertaining to sworn members of the police department:
   A.   To make and promulgate rules and regulations for the conduct of
examinations for original appointments, conduct of examinations for promotions,
and conduct of hearings on charges brought against a member of the police
department.
   B.   To conduct examinations for original appointments and promotions.
   C.   To make all original appointments to the police department and
appointments to promotions within the police department pursuant to
examinations.
   D.   To conduct hearings on charges brought against any member of the police
department.
   E.   Such other and further powers as may from time to time be authorized by
the Illinois general assembly. (Ord. 2021-O-20, 12-6-2021)
2-5-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The Village shall provide all reasonable assistance to the board of
police commissioners in order, to assist the board with its various duties. All
requests for assistance are to be conveyed to the chief of police for
appropriate response by the Village. Neither the board of police commissioners
nor any of its members shall give direction to any member of the Village staff.
Unless otherwise set forth herein or established by Illinois state statutes,
all recommendations of the board of police commissioners shall be referred to
the Village Board for consideration and implementation by the Village.
   B.   The board of police commissioners shall not have the authority to make
any expenditure or cause to be made any purchase or contract that directly or
indirectly results in a financial liability or lien against the Village,
without the express prior approval of the Village President and Board of
Trustees of the Village of Pingree Grove. (Ord. 2021-O-20, 12-6-2021)
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE POLICE PENSION FUND OF THE VILLAGE OF PINGREE GROVE
SECTION:
2-6-1: Board Of Trustees Of The Police Pension Fund Established
2-6-2: Membership, Terms, Officers
2-6-3: Meetings Of Board Of Trustees Of The Police Pension Fund
2-6-4: Powers And Duties
2-6-5: General Provisions
2-6-1: BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE POLICE PENSION FUND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   For the benefit of Village of Pingree Grove police officers and their
surviving spouses, children, and certain other dependents, and in accordance
with Illinois state statutes, specifically Article 3 of the Illinois Pension
Code, the board of trustees of the police pension fund is hereby established by
the Village as well as a police pension fund.
   B.   For purposes of reference and financial accounting within the Village,
the board of trustees of the police pension fund shall also be known as, and
shall serve as one in the same as, the police pension board. (Ord. 2021-O-20,
12-6- 2021)
2-6-2: MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, OFFICERS:
   A.   Board Membership: The board of trustees of the police pension fund,
a.k.a. the police pension board, shall consist of five (5) members, at least
two (2) of whom shall reside within the corporate boundaries of the Village of
Pingree Grove.
   B.   Appointment: Two (2) members of the board shall be appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the Village Board. Two (2) members of
the board shall be elected from the regular police force by the active members
thereof. The remaining members shall be elected by and from the beneficiaries
of the police pension fund.
   C.   Election: The election for elected board members provided for in
subsection B of this section shall be held biennially on the third Monday in
April at such time or times and places in the Village as shall be prescribed by
the appointed members of the board, and under the Australian ballot system and
other such applicable regulations.
   D.   Voting: All members of the regular police force shall be entitled to
vote only for the police force members of the board. All beneficiaries of legal
voting age shall be entitled to vote only for the member to be chosen from the
beneficiaries. No person shall be entitled to cast more than one ballot at any
such election. Members so elected shall be elected for a term of two (2) years
beginning the second Tuesday of the first May following such election.
   E.   Term Of Office: The term of office for all members shall be for two (2)
years.
   F.   Vacancy: Any vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the initial
appointing authority, but only to the unexpired portion of the vacated term.
   G.   Officers: The officers of the board shall be president, vice president,
secretary and assistant secretary who shall be selected from its members at the
regular July meeting. Officers shall serve for one year and until their
respective successors are elected and qualified.
   H.   President: It shall be the duty of the president to conduct all
meetings of the board and to represent the board at Village Board meetings as
from time to time may be necessary.
   I.   Vice President: The vice president shall perform the duties of the
president during any vacancy in that office, or during the president's absence
from the Village, or if he or she is by reason of illness or other causes
unable to perform the duties of the office.
   J.   Secretary: The secretary shall maintain minutes and records of regular
and special meetings and regularly provide such records to the Village Board.
   K.   Assistant Secretary: The assistant secretary shall act for the
secretary whenever necessary to discharge the functions of such office. (Ord.
2021-O-20, 12-6-2021)
2-6-3: MEETINGS OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE POLICE PENSION FUND:
   A.   The board shall meet no less than quarterly in July, October, January,
and April. Additional meetings may be called if deemed necessary by the
president or a majority, of the board.
   B.   Notice of a board meeting shall be given in writing to each member of
the board at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time set for the
meeting. Additionally, notice of the meeting shall be posted in a conspicuous
place in the police department not less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to
any board meeting.
   C.   All meetings shall be held in compliance with the Illinois Open
Meetings Act. (Ord. 2021-O-20, 12-6-2021)
2-6-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of trustees of the police pension fund, a.k.a. police pension board,
of the village shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To take any, and all action to convey to the Police Officers' Pension
Investment Fund, as established and defined in P.A. 101-0610, all monies
donated, paid, or assessed for the relief or pensioning of disabled,
superannuated, and retired members of the police department, their widows,
minor children, and dependent parents. All such monies shall be placed by the
treasurer of the Village to the credit of the fund subject to the order of the
board of trustees of the police pension fund.
   B.   To order and direct the payment of pensions and other benefits provided
by Article 3 of the Illinois Pension Code, including but not limited to
adjudicating and awarding disability benefits, retirement benefits, survivor
benefits and to issue refunds in accordance with 40 ILCS 5/3-124.3, and to
issue certificates signed by its president and secretary to the persons
entitled thereto of the amount ordered paid to such persons from the fund,
which certificate shall state the purpose of the payment.
   C.   To submit annually to the Village Board of Trustees at the close of the
Village's fiscal year, a list of persons entitled to benefits from the fund,
stating the amount of the payments and their purpose, as ordered by the board.
It shall also include items of income accrued to the fund during the fiscal
year. Such lists shall be signed by the secretary and president of the board of
trustees of the police pension fund and attested under oath. No resolution or
order for the payment of money shall be valid unless approved by a majority of,
the members of the board, and any order for such payment shall be signed by the
president and secretary of the board.
   D.   To maintain an account, including an interest earning account, for the
purposes of benefit payments and other reasonable expenses as set forth in 40
ILCS 5/3-132.1.
   E.   To compel witnesses to attend and testify before it, upon all matters
connected with the administration of this chapter, in the manner provided by
law for the taking of testimony before the circuit court. The president or any
member of the board of trustees of the police pension fund may administer oaths
to such witnesses.
   F.   To accept donations by gift, grant, transfer, or bequest, any money,
real estate, or personal property. Such money and the proceeds from the sale of
or the income from such real estate or personal property shall be paid into The
Police Officers' Pension Investment Fund.
   G.   To appoint a clerk and define the duties of a clerk. No person drawing
a pension under this chapter shall be employed by the board of trustees of the
police pension fund.
   H.   To provide for the payment from the fund of all necessary expenses
including clerk hire, printing, and witness fees.
   I.   To keep a public record of all its proceedings.
   J.   To make necessary rules and regulations in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, which shall be published by the board of trustees
of the police pension fund and copies transmitted from time to time to all
pensioners and contributors. (Ord. 2021-O-20, 12-6-2021)
2-6-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The board of trustees of the police pension fund, a.k.a. the police pension
board, of the Village shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   The Village shall provide all reasonable assistance to the board of
trustees of the police pension fund, a.k.a. the police pension board, in order,
to assist the board with its various duties. All requests for assistance are to
be conveyed to the director of the finance department for appropriate response
by the Village. Neither the board of trustees of the police pension fund nor
any of its members shall give direction to any member of the Village staff.
Unless otherwise set forth herein or established by Illinois state statutes,
all recommendations of the board of trustees of the police pension fund shall
be referred to the Village Board of Trustees for consideration and
implementation by the Village.
   B.   Except as specifically stated in this chapter, the board of trustees of
the police pension fund shall not have the authority to make any expenditure or
cause to be made any purchase or contract that directly or indirectly results
in a financial liability or lien against the Village, without the express prior
approval of the President and Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2021-O-20, 12-6-
2021)
TITLE 3
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Fiscal Year
3-1-2: Tax Levy Ordinance
3-1-3: Deposit And Withdrawal Of Village Funds
3-1-4: Indebtedness
3-1-5: Bills
3-1-6: Annual Audit
3-1-7: Collection Of Fines Or Charges
3-1-1: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the Village shall begin on May 1 of each year and end on
April 30 of the following year. (1990 Code §11.001)
3-1-2: TAX LEVY ORDINANCE 1 :
Not sooner than ten (10) days after the publication of the annual budget, a tax
levy ordinance shall be enacted, as required by law, levying such taxes as may
be needed to meet the anticipated expenses of the coming year, together with
such taxes as may be required to meet outstanding bond issues, or for purposes
payable from special taxes properly authorized. A certified copy of the tax
levy ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk not later than the second
Tuesday in December. Such ordinance shall show the total budgeted for each
item, and the amount of tax levied therefor. (1990 Code §11.003; amd. 2011
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title for budget provisions.
3-1-3: DEPOSIT AND WITHDRAWAL OF VILLAGE FUNDS:
   A.   Depository Designated: The Village does hereby appoint and designate
Elgin State Bank, a branch of St. Charles Bank & Trust, a Wintrust Company (or
its successor), as a depository of funds, including but not limited to
investments, deposits, withdrawals and all other manner of financial
transactions as said depository may be requested to perform on behalf of the
Village.
   B.   Authorized Officials: The President and Finance Director or Clerk are
designated as the proper parties to effectuate withdrawals and sign checks,
acting singularly. The Finance Director is authorized to establish policies
relating to such executions.
   C.   Transfers And Investment Of Funds: The Finance Director or designee
shall make transfers and direct investments of funds of the Village within and
among accounts standing in the name of the Village or hereinafter so created.
The Finance Director is further authorized to make investments with any firm,
fund or institution approved of by the Village Board through ordinance,
resolution, motion, or through inclusion in an approved investment plan or
budget. (Ord. 2018-O-21, 8-20-2018)
3-1-4: INDEBTEDNESS:
No indebtedness shall be incurred, excepting such indebtedness as may be
payable solely from the proceeds of a duly authorized bond issue or from a
designated specified source, unless there is a prior appropriation out of which
indebtedness could be paid as provided by statute; provided, that during the
first quarter of any fiscal year, before the enactment of the current annual
budget, the Village may operate under the annual budget of the preceding year.
(1990 Code §11.004; amd. 2011 Code)
3-1-5: BILLS:
   A.   Approval Required: All bills payable by the Village, other than for the
payment of salaries established by the Board of Trustees, shall be submitted to
the Board of Trustees for approval before payment. (1990 Code §11.006)
   B.   Payment; Warrants Required: The Finance Director shall pay out money in
payment of all bills, or for salaries, or for any other purpose only upon
warrants signed by the Village President and Village Clerk as provided by
statute. Such warrants shall designate the items to be paid and funds from
which they are to be paid.
   C.   Process for Bill and Warrant Payment in the Event of Meeting
Cancellation: In the event that the Village cancels or fails to convene one or
more meetings of the Village Board of Trustees, Village staff are authorized
and directed to continue normal Village operations and the payment of expenses
in the fashion described below, without the requirement of further prior
authorization or warrant list approval by the Village Board:
      1.   Prior to the payment of expenses, the warrant list shall be prepared
in the ordinary course and shall be circulated to the Village Board (via e-
Mail) and Village President, at least forty-eight hours in advance of issuance
of payment.
      2.   The warrant list shall only be paid with the approval of the Village
President, Village Manager and Finance Director.
      3.   Any other expenditure which requires prompt payment outside of the
normal timing of the warrant list may also be presented in this same fashion
and shall require the same approval.
      4.   Any warrant list or expenditure approved under these procedures
shall be presented to the Village Board for ratification at the first regular
Village Board meeting convened thereafter.
      5.   In the event of an expense which is subject to approval at a meeting
that is not held, if staff recommends rejection of the expense (or associated
invoice) in accordance with the Local Government Prompt Payment Act, staff can
administratively implement such rejection in accordance with these same
procedures. (1990 Code § 11.007; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2020-O-16, 5-18-2020)
3-1-6: ANNUAL AUDIT:
As soon as practicable at the close of each fiscal year, and not later than six
(6) months thereafter, there shall be an audit of all accounts of the Village
made by a competent person authorized to act as an auditor under the laws of
Illinois, to be designated by the Board of Trustees. Copies of such audit
report shall be filed with the Village Clerk and with the Director of the State
Department of Revenue, and in such other places as may be required by law.
(1990 Code §11.008)
3-1-7: COLLECTION OF FINES OR CHARGES:
   A.   Pursuant to the authority conferred by virtue of the Illinois
Constitution, the Illinois Municipal Code and Section 1-2-1 thereof, the
Village hereby authorizes and directs the Finance Director to determine which
fines, penalties, accounts receivable, taxes, user charges, utility charges or
other financial obligations which may be owed the Village in any form or for
any reason (collectively, "Debt") should be considered for any form of
collection. The Finance Director is authorized to submit any such Debt to any
judicial or legal proceeding for collection, or to submit the Debt to a
collection agency approved by the Village Board for any form of civil debt
recovery, or to submit the Debt to any program maintained by any other unit of
government, including but not limited to the State of Illinois, for the purpose
of Debt recovery (including but not limited to the Illinois Debt Recovery
Offset Program). The Finance Director may adopt such rules and regulations as
shall be necessary to effectuate this Section, including but not limited to
evaluating Debt on a per-class basis or case by case basis to determine its
appropriateness for submission to a recovery methodology.
   B.   Any costs incurred by the Village by virtue of such collection
activities or debt recovery program (including but not limited to collection
fees, court costs, legal fees, staff costs, notice costs or any other costs
whatsoever) shall be borne exclusively by the person(s) owing the Debt to the
Village, and shall be assessed against such person(s) as a charge due and owing
to the Village in addition to the underlying Debt. All such charges shall be
required to be fully satisfied and extinguished before the Debt shall be
released (and before any related enforcement methodology shall be released),
except as provided in subsection (C) below.
   C.   The Finance Director and/or Village Manager shall have the authority to
determine or declare that any Debt is not probable of recovery and to write-off
such Debt or discontinue collection methodology. The Finance Director and/or
Village Manager, shall also have the authority to compromise or settle any Debt
or obligation owed the Village, and to accept partial or liquidated payment in
exchange for a partial or complete release thereof. The limit of such authority
for write-off or compromise is one thousand dollars ($1,000). Any individual
Debt in excess of the aforesaid spending authority shall require the approval
of the Village Board to discharge or write-off. With regard to any case or
action implemented as an action or administrative hearing which is prosecuted
by the Village Attorney, the Village Attorney shall be authorized to settle,
resolve or compromise any fine, penalty or other Debt imposed therein, without
limitation, as a matter of prosecutorial discretion. (Ord. 2019-O-29, 8-19-
2019)
CHAPTER 2
BUDGET AND BUDGET OFFICER
SECTION:
3-2-1: State Regulations Adopted; Effect
3-2-2: Budget Officer
3-2-3: Annual Budget
3-2-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED; EFFECT:
The village does hereby adopt the procedures of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/8-2-9.1 through 5/8-2-9.9 as the method for adoption of the annual budget in
lieu of those provisions otherwise specified in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/8-2-9. The preparation of an annual budget in lieu of the passage of an
appropriation ordinance shall commence with the preparation of a budget for the
fiscal year 2006-2007. (Ord. 2005-40, 12-5-2005)
3-2-2: BUDGET OFFICER:
   A.   Finance Director Serve As: The village finance director shall act as
the budget officer. (Ord. 2005-40, 12-5-2005; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Bond: The budget officer shall execute a bond to the village in such
sum as provided by law, with such sureties as the president shall approve,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of the office.
   C.   Compensation:
      1.   The salary of the village budget officer shall be in an amount set
by the village board.
      2.   The budget officer may hold another elective or appointive office
within the village and may receive compensation for both offices.
   D.   Powers And Duties: The village budget officer shall have such powers
and duties as provided pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9.2,
including, but not limited to:
      1.   Permit, encourage and establish the use of efficient planning,
budgeting, auditing, reporting, accounting, and other fiscal management
procedures in all municipal departments, commissions, and boards.
      2.   Compile an annual budget in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-2-9.3.
      3.   Examine all books and records of all municipal departments,
commissions, and boards which relate to monies received by or paid out by the
village, debts and accounts receivable, and amounts owed by or to the village.
      4.   Establish and maintain such procedures as shall ensure that no
expenditures are made by the village except as authorized by the budget.
      5.   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.6, the Finance Director, with the
approval of the Village Manager, may make amendments, transfers of funding,
revisions or other similar modifications to the Village's budget, provided
that:
         a.   No such revision shall result in monies being transferred from
one Village fund to another fund (all revisions shall be completed only within
a single fund). Transfers between multiple funds shall require the express
approval of the Village Board.
         b.   Where such fund affects a Village department budget, no such
revision shall be made except with the consent and approval of all affected
department heads.
         c.   Revisions shall only be made to expenditures, and no revision or
increase in budgetary assumptions regarding revenues shall be made except with
the express approval of the Village Board.
         d.   No revisions shall be made to the budgets of any Special Service
Area (or related fund) except with the express approval of the Village Board.
(Ord. 2005-40, 12-5-2005; amd. Ord. 2019-O-39, 11-4-2019)
3-2-3: ANNUAL BUDGET:
The village shall make the tentative annual budget available for public
inspection no less than ten (10) days prior to its passage by announcement
thereof at a regular meeting of the board of trustees. The village shall hold a
public hearing on the tentative annual budget, after notice as provided by law.
(Ord. 2005-40, 12-5-2005)
CHAPTER 3
CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Village Purchasing Policies
3-3-1: VILLAGE PURCHASING POLICIES:
Purchases and contracts of the Village shall be undertaken in accordance with
the Village’s then-current Purchasing Manual, as may be adopted and updated by
the Village Board from time to time, along with applicable Village Codes and
Ordinances. (Ord. 2020-O-17, 5-18-2020)
CHAPTER 4
TAXES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Non-Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax And Non-- Home Rule
Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-4-2: Use Tax
3-4-3: Replacement Vehicle Tax
3-4-4: Utility Tax
3-4-1: NON-HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX AND NON-HOME RULE
MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Non-Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax And Non-Home Rule
Municipal Service Occupation Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all
persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property, other
than an item of tangible personal property titled and registered with an agency
of this State's government, at retail in this municipality at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business while this section is in effect; and a tax is hereby imposed upon all
persons engaged in this municipality in the business of making sales of
service, at the rate of one percent (1%) of the selling price of all tangible
personal property transferred by such serviceman as an incident to a sale of
service. This "Non-Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax" and this
"Non-Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax" may not be imposed on tangible
personal property taxed at the rate of one percent (1%) under the Retailers'
Occupation Tax and the Service Occupation Tax Act. The imposition of these non-
home rule taxes is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Sections
8-11-1.1, 8-11-1.2, 8-11-1.3 and 8-11-1.4 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/8-11-1.1, 8-11-1.2, 8-11-1.3 and 8-11-1.4).
   B.   Collection By State: The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties
that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by
the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 97-5, 9-16-1997; amd. Ord. 2024-O-07, 4-1-2024)
3-4-2: USE TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using, in the village, any item
of tangible personal property which is purchased at retail from a retailer, and
which is titled or registered with any agency of this state's government, at
the rate of one percent (1%) of the selling price of such tangible personal
property, as "selling price" is defined in the Illinois use tax act 1 . Such
tax shall be collected from persons whose Illinois address for titling or
registration purposes given as being in the village and upon such property
sited within the village. (Ord. 97-5, 9-16-1997; amd. 2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
3-4-3: REPLACEMENT VEHICLE TAX:
A replacement vehicle tax of fifty dollars ($50.00) is hereby imposed on any
"motor vehicle", as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-146,
purchased by or on behalf of an insurance company to replace the vehicle of an
insured person in settlement of a total loss claim in the village. (Ord. 97-5,
9-16-1997)
3-4-4: UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For taxes imposed by subsection B of this section, the
following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them by this subsection:
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited
liability company, municipal corporation, the state or any of its political
subdivisions, any state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for
purposes of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the
use of electricity by a "public utility", as defined in section 8-11-2 of the
Illinois municipal code, directly in the generation, production, transmission,
delivery or sale of electricity.
   PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of
the village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
   TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
   VILLAGE: Village of Pingree Grove, Illinois.
   B.   Tax Imposed; Rates: Pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the Illinois
municipal code and any and all other applicable authority, a tax is imposed
upon the privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at
retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the village at the
following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In A Month Cost Per Kilowatt Hour
                                           (Cents)
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In A Month Cost Per Kilowatt Hour
                                           (Cents)
For the first 2,000                        0.61
For the next 48,000                        0.40
For the next 50,000                        0.36
For the next 400,000                       0.35
For the next 500,000                       0.34
For the next 2,000,000                     0.32
For the next 2,000,000                     0.315
For the next 5,000,000                     0.31
For the next 10,000,000                    0.305
All in excess of 20,000,000                0.30
 
   C.   Tax Is Additional: The tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other
revenue measures imposed by the village, the state or any other political
subdivision of the state.
   D.   Effective Dates Of Tax: The tax shall be imposed with respect to the
use or consumption of electricity by residential customers beginning with the
first bill issued on or after November 1, 1997; and with respect to the use or
consumption of electricity by nonresidential customers, beginning with the
first bill issued to such customers for delivery services in accordance with
section 16-104 of the public utilities act 1 , or the first bill issued to such
customers on or after January 1, 2001, whichever issuance occurs sooner.
   E.   Collection Of Tax:
      1.   Collection; Tax A Debt: Subject to the provisions of subsection G of
this section regarding the delivery of electricity to resellers, the tax
imposed under this section shall be collected from purchasers by the person
maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers electricity to such
purchasers. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the same time
and in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
      2.   Uncollectible Amounts: Any tax required to be collected by this
subsection, and any tax in fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the
village by the person delivering the electricity; provided, that the person
delivering the electricity shall be allowed credit for such tax related to
deliveries of electricity, the charges for which are written off as
uncollectible; and provided further, that if such charges are thereafter
collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax.
      3.   Administrative Costs Added: Persons delivering electricity shall
collect the tax from the purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for
delivering the electricity. Persons delivering the electricity shall also be
authorized to add to such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of
the tax they collect to reimburse them for their expenses incurred in keeping
records, billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and
supplying data to the village upon request. For purposes of this subsection,
any partial payment of a billed amount not specifically identified by the
purchaser shall be deemed to be for the delivery of electricity.
   F.   Tax Remittance And Return:
      1.   Tax Return Required: Every tax collector shall, on a monthly basis,
file a return in a form prescribed by the village. The return and accompanying
remittance shall be due on or before the last day of the month following the
month during which the tax is collected.
      2.   Payment Of Tax: If the person delivering electricity fails to
collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall file a return in a
form prescribed by the village and pay the tax directly to the village on or
before the last day of the month following the month during which the
electricity is used or consumed.
   G.   Resales:
      1.   Restrictions: Electricity that is delivered to a person in the
village shall be considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless
the person receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the
village and furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity,
and certifies to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially
nontaxable as a sale for resale.
      2.   Resale Number: If a person who receives electricity in the village
claims to be an authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to
the village for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why it
is not liable for the tax imposed by this section on any purchases of
electricity and shall furnish such additional information as the village may
reasonably require.
      3.   Approval; Assignment Of Number: Upon approval of the application,
the village shall assign a resale number to the applicant and shall certify the
number to the applicant.
      4.   Failure To Pay Tax; Cancel Number: The village may cancel the resale
number of any person if the person fails to pay any tax payable under this
section for electricity used or consumed by the person, or if the number: a)
was obtained through misrepresentation; or b) is no longer necessary because
the person has discontinued making resales.
      5.   Reseller Conditions:
         a.   If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or
consumption and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by
this section directly to the village pursuant to subsection B of this section
on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses or consumes, and shall
collect the tax pursuant to subsection E of this section, and remit the tax
pursuant to subsection F1 of this section on the amount of electricity
delivered by the reseller to a purchaser.
         b.   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an
active resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section
shall be excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the
electricity delivered to the reseller; provided, that the person reports to the
village the total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller and such
other information that the village may reasonably require.
   H.   Books And Records: Every tax collector and every taxpayer required to
pay the tax imposed by this section shall keep accurate books and records of
its business or activity, including contemporaneous books and records denoting
the transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability
under this section. The books and records shall be subject to and available for
inspection at all times during business hours of the day.
   I.   Credits For Erroneous Payments: If it shall appear that an amount of
tax has been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section,
whether as result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount
shall be credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section
from the taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amount
erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim
therefor shall be so credited. If a taxpayer under this section is unable to
use a credit authorized by this section solely because the tax imposed by this
section has been replaced by the tax imposed under the kilowatt hour tax, then
the taxpayer may apply such credit against any tax due under the kilowatt hour
tax.
   J.   Statute Of Limitations: No action to recover any amount of tax due
under the provisions of this section shall be commenced after the expiration of
three (3) years after the due date of such tax.
   K.   Compliance With State And Federal Laws: Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, the tax shall not be imposed if and to the extent
that imposition or collection of the tax would violate the constitution or
statutes of the United States or the constitution of the state.
   L.   Violation; Penalties: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who
makes a fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any of the provisions of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and, in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due. (2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
CHAPTER 5
PROFESSIONAL FEE REIMBURSEMENT
SECTION:
3-5-1: Development Expense Reimbursement
3-5-1: DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   The Village of Pingree Grove seeks to encourage the development and
redevelopment of properties within its corporate limits, and seeks to encourage
the annexation and development of properties within its boundary line
agreements or eligible areas to annex. However, the Village requires, as a
condition of development or consideration, that the applicant seeking relief
pay and incur all costs or expenses incurred by the Village in the review or
consideration of such development or consideration, without regard to whether
the consideration is approved or rejected. This section shall be interpreted to
provide for the required posting of escrow and payment/reimbursement of
Village-incurred expenses on as broad of a development-related scale as
possible.
   B.   Applications for development related projects shall be submitted to the
Village Clerk on a form acceptable to the Clerk. Development related projects
shall mean applications for consideration of annexation, zoning, rezoning,
special use, variation, plan review, planned unit development designation,
conceptual/preliminary/final plat approval, requests for the granting or
approval of an easement, requests for the sale or transfer of Village-owned
real property, or other applications for permission relating to the approval of
development or building related entitlements for real property. In addition,
applications for other considerations received by the Village Clerk or by other
Village staff, including but not limited to building permit applications, may
be submitted to the Clerk for review under this section where deemed necessary
or appropriate based upon the nature of the application or the review required
(e.g., under circumstances where a building permit is reasonably determined to
require review by a licensed civil engineer and where the building permit fee
does not include adequate funding for such review). For purposes of this
section, any submittal seeking a real property related approval or
authorization from the Village may be considered to be an application.
   C.   Upon receipt of an application identified in subsection B of this
section, the Village Clerk shall consult with the Village Engineer, Planner,
Building Code Consultant, Attorney and Finance Director to ascertain the type
and nature of fees that are likely to be incurred in the review of the request.
Fees which are eligible for consideration under this section include any fees
that the Village may incur in the review, including but not limited to:
professional review fees of engineers, architects, planners, Building Code
officials, attorneys, financial consultants or other parties; expense
reimbursement; publication, postage or printing costs; costs associated with
compensating elected or appointed officials for the conduct of any public
meeting scheduled for the sole or partial purpose of reviewing a given
consideration; costs of document preparation or recording; costs of
investigation or due diligence; third party costs not identified above;
extraordinary or overtime Village staff costs incurred in processing the
application; and any other direct cost, financial cost or penalty, or
reimbursement obligation of the Village which is attributable to the
consideration. The Village Clerk shall compile an estimate of the fees to be
incurred in review of the consideration.
   D.   The Village Clerk shall then present the applicant (party bringing
forward the consideration) with a Professional Fee Reimbursement Agreement
("agreement") in form and content acceptable to the Clerk and Village Attorney,
along with the estimate of costs to be incurred. Prior to the initiation of
consideration of the request and prior to the Village incurring such costs, the
applicant shall post with the Village a signed copy of the agreement and shall
post certified funds with the Village in an amount determined by the Village
Clerk and Finance Director as described in subsection D1 of this section. No
application shall be considered complete and no consideration shall be advanced
for review or potential approval until the agreement and escrow are posted with
the Village. No payment shall be accepted under protest. The provisions of this
section shall supersede any conflicting ordinance, code or regulation that
would otherwise constrain or create a timeline for consideration or review of
an application. In the alternative, the Village Clerk may advance the
consideration for review with a negative recommendation, based upon the
applicant's failure to comply with the provisions of this section.
      1.   In the event that the estimate of costs is less than five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00), the applicant shall post the entire cost estimate. In the
event that the estimate of costs is between five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
and thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00), the Village Clerk and Finance
Director are authorized to establish an appropriate escrow amount that shall be
posted, up to the full amount of the estimate. In the event that the estimate
of costs is in excess of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00), the Village
Clerk and Finance Director shall determine an amount, not less than thirty
thousand dollars ($30,000.00), which represents adequate funding to cover any
costs which may be incurred by the Village during the first four (4) months of
review of the consideration. Because the exact amount of costs to be incurred
is incalculable at the time of application, the Clerk and Finance Director are
authorized and directed to make an estimate in their sole and absolute
discretion, inclusive of an adequate buffer for unanticipated costs.
   E.   Upon the posting of the certified funds and agreement with the Clerk,
the Clerk shall provide the funds to the Finance Director, and shall notify the
Village's consultants who shall be involved in the review of the consideration
that they may commence work.
      1.   The Finance Director shall deposit the certified funds in an account
of the Village and shall implement such accounting practices as shall be
necessary to track funds by consideration and expense. Any interest accruing on
the proceeds deposited with the Village shall be retained by the Village.
      2.   Any person hired or utilized by the Village to perform review
services on a consideration subject to development expense reimbursement under
this section shall segregate all costs and expenses relating to such
consideration and shall invoice such expenses on separate invoice to the
Village of Pingree Grove. All such invoices shall be submitted within thirty
(30) days of the date of incurring the expense, unless otherwise authorized by
the Finance Director.
      3.   Upon receipt of an invoice for reimbursement, the Finance Director
shall, after obtaining any required Village Board approval, pay such invoice
out of the escrowed funds maintained by the Village. A copy of the invoice for
the expense reimbursed out of escrow shall be provided to the applicant at the
time of reimbursement (no more frequently than monthly), along with a statement
of the current level of funding maintained in escrow.
      4.   The Finance Director shall be authorized to impose a Village
administrative fee of not more than five percent (5%) of the total of all
amounts reimbursed through escrow payments, with such fee being payable to the
Village as reimbursement for the costs of administering the escrow and the
process outlined under this section.
      5.   The Finance Director shall monitor the level of funding maintained
in escrow to ensure it is adequate to cover all fees anticipated to be
incurred. In the event additional funding is required, the Finance Director or
Clerk shall notify the applicant of the requirement to post additional funds in
an amount determined by the Finance Director or Clerk to be adequate. This
process (requiring additional escrowed funds) may be repeated multiple times.
The process for determining the additional amount to be paid into escrow shall
be based upon an abbreviated version of the consideration described in
subsection D1 of this section.
   F.   In the event that an applicant at any time fails to adhere to the
obligations of this section or the requirement to post a signed agreement, an
escrow, or to post additional funding to an escrow where required herein, the
Village Clerk shall immediately notify all parties working on behalf of the
Village in the review of the consideration, and all such parties shall cease
incurring expense or further review of the consideration. In the alternative,
the Village Clerk may advance the consideration for review with a negative
recommendation, based upon the applicant's failure to comply with the
provisions of this section.
   G.   Upon the completion of any consideration and all processes associated
therewith, the Village Clerk shall inquire with appropriate parties as to
whether the escrow should be terminated or should be maintained. In the event
that the escrow related to a preliminary process (e.g., review of a concept
plan) and there is further process contemplated in the immediate future, the
escrow shall be maintained pending those further considerations and compliance
with the terms of this section. In the alternative, should the inquiry
determine that the consideration is fully complete and all expenses associated
therewith have been fully reimbursed, any remaining proceeds held in escrow
shall be reimbursed to the applicant or a designee thereof. Prior to
reimbursement, the Clerk or Finance Director shall confirm with all parties
undertaking review of the consideration on behalf of the Village that all
invoices have been submitted and all costs have been fully reimbursed. In the
event that the applicant is a debtor to the Village on any expense, the
remaining proceeds held in escrow may be applied by the Village against such
debt, in the sole and absolute discretion of the Finance Director.
   H.   An applicant may request termination of the agreement and refund of the
escrow at any time, by submitting a written request for the same to the Village
Clerk. Such a written request shall constitute an abandonment of the
consideration and a voluntary withdrawal of the request for approval contained
therein. Upon receipt of such a request, the Clerk shall notify all parties
working on behalf of the Village in the review of the consideration, all such
parties shall cease incurring expense or further review of the consideration,
and all such parties shall submit invoices for any outstanding costs or
expenses within thirty (30) days. At that point, the escrow shall be closed out
pursuant to subsection G of this section.
   I.   The failure of the Village to require strict compliance with any
provision hereof, or the failure to require implementation of an agreement and
escrow at the inception of any given consideration, shall not constitute a
waiver of the provisions hereof. (Ord. 2017-O-20, 10-2-2017)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE SERVICE ACCOUNTS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Created
3-6-2: Order Of Application Of Payments
3-6-3: Failure To Pay; Termination And Reinstatement Of Services
3-6-4: Option Of Converting Charges To Ordinance Violation
3-6-5: Preexisting Charges
3-6-6: Billing Procedures
3-6-1: CREATED:
The finance director is hereby authorized to create individual village service
accounts for each user of village services. Said accounts shall consolidate all
commonly used village services including, but not limited to, water and sewer
use billing pursuant to this code, garbage pick up pursuant to this code or
agreement, building permit and inspection fees, ordinance violation/parking
citations and any applicable fines and penalties therefor, dog or pet
registration/fees, and any other fees, charges, surcharges, interest thereupon,
or other costs whatsoever due and owing from any user of village services to
the village. For purposes of this chapter, a single user account shall be
established for each individual property in the village, and the charges or
expenses applicable to any person who resides at such property or vehicle
registered to such property's address shall be chargeable to the property's
service account. (Ord. 2010-12, 7-6-2010)
3-6-2: ORDER OF APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS:
When processing payments received for a village service account, the village
shall apply all payments in the following order:
   A.   All outstanding penalties and fines for violations of village codes and
ordinances;
   B.   Garbage pick up;
   C.   Building permit or inspection fees;
   D.   Any charges associated with abating any public nuisance or mowing
weeds/grass that exceeds the height permitted under this code (regardless of
whether the village has filed for a lien and/or obtained a judgment for such
expenses);
   E.   Dog/pet registration and related fees;
   F.   Fees charged for responses to false alarms pursuant to village
ordinance;
   G.   Interest, late payment penalties, or other similar fees and surcharges;
   H.   Any outstanding amounts for other obligations to the village other than
a charge enumerated herein;
   I.   Water service reinstatement charges; and
   J.   Water/sewer service and use charges. (Ord. 2010-12, 7-6-2010)
3-6-3: FAILURE TO PAY; TERMINATION AND REINSTATEMENT OF SERVICES:
   A.   A failure to pay any amounts due under a village service account shall
entitle the village to cease provision of any or all village services,
including suspension or termination of water service.
   B.   Prior to ceasing all village services, the village shall comply with
the shutoff procedures established within this code, regardless of whether the
basis for the shutoff is due to a failure to pay amounts due for water/sewer
bills, or due for other expenses or charges payable to the village.
   C.   When village services are terminated for a specific property based upon
a failure to make full payment of amounts outstanding on a village service
account within the time specified under this code or applicable village
procedures, prior to the reinstatement of services to said property, the
village may demand full satisfaction of all outstanding charges on the village
service account for that property, without regard to changes in the ownership
or occupancy of such property. (Ord. 2010-12, 7-6-2010)
3-6-4: OPTION OF CONVERTING CHARGES TO ORDINANCE VIOLATION:
Upon request by any party charged with a parking citation or other violation of
this code, said violation shall be converted to an ordinance violation citation
prosecuted by the village in court in lieu of appearing as a charge on said
person's village service account. (Ord. 2010-12, 7-6-2010)
3-6-5: PREEXISTING CHARGES:
Immediately after the effective date hereof, any person with preexisting
charges that are to be applied to a village service account shall be provided
with notice of said charges and shall be given a thirty (30) day period to pay
all such charges, in full, without said charges being included in the charges
on the village service account. (Ord. 2010-12, 7-6-2010)
3-6-6: BILLING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Periodic Billing:
      1.   The village shall issue bi-monthly invoices for charges against
individual village service accounts for water and sewer utility services
provided over the two month period preceding the first day of the present
billing month. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the village
determines any charge was inaccurate or otherwise failed to be placed on an
invoice for any reason, it may thereafter be placed on a subsequent invoice,
and the failure of the charge to appear on the first invoice after the charge
was incurred shall not be a defense to payment.
      2.   Invoices for village service accounts shall be payable on the date
indicated on the face of the invoice, which shall be a business day not more
than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days from the billing date of the
invoice.
      3.   Any invoice not paid in full by the date indicated on the face of
the invoice (the “Due Date”) shall be subject to the mailing of a late notice.
A late fee of ten percent (10%) of the face value of any unpaid account balance
shall be charged after the Due Date and not later than the third business day
after the Due Date. The failure of the village to dispatch a late notice shall
not serve as waiver of the charges or late fee associated with the invoice.
      4.   Any invoice not paid in full by the date which is not less than
forty (40) days from the mailing date of the invoice, will result in the
issuance of a final disconnection notice and a delinquency fine in the amount
of twenty five dollars ($25.00) added to the balance of the affected account.
The final disconnection notice will be in the form of a hang tag/door hanger,
delivered to the affected property not less than five (5) days in advance of
discontinuance of service. Failure to make full payment within the five (5) day
period from which the final notice was posted shall be cause for the village to
shut off water supply to the affected property.
      5.   When the water supply to a property is shut off due to non- payment,
the account holder/property owner(s) shall pay a water supply service
restoration fee in the amount of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) prior to service
restoration.
         a.   Water supply service restoration is performed by the village
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and two o'clock (2:00) P.M.,
Monday through Friday. Connections performed outside of these hours will be
charged an additional seventy-five dollar ($75.00) service fee (one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) total for an after-hours restoration). The account
holder/property owner, or an adult designee, must be present in the home during
service restoration.
      6.   When the water supply to a property is turned off, it shall be
unlawful for any person other than a village employee to attempt to turn said
water supply back on, or to tamper with the water meter or water supply valve
(s). A violation of the subsection A6 is punishable by a fine of not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      7.   The village may file a lien for delinquent charges on a village
service account based upon the terms of the then current village service
account billing policy. Any such lien shall include the village cost of
preparing and filing the lien, pursuant to the then current village service
account billing policy.
      8.   The village finance director shall be authorized to establish a
village service account billing policy and to amend such policy without further
notice or approval.
      9.   Any person who submits a void, false, fraudulent, postdated, stale
or otherwise invalid negotiable instrument or check for payment of a village
service account invoice, or whose check is returned as lacking sufficient
funds, shall be subject to the fees contemplated by the village service account
billing policy, which may include imposition of the maximum fine permitted
under the then current law, in addition to referral for criminal prosecution
where appropriate and in addition to payment of any fines or NSF fees that the
village incurs. The only acceptable forms of payment for a village invoice are
U.S. dollars, personal checks with the address of the property listed as the
permanent address of the payor, bank checks, money orders, valid credit cards
or certified checks. The village shall refuse to accept personal checks from
any person who has tendered a false, fraudulent or NSF check within the past
twelve (12) month rolling period.
   B.   Billing Disputes:
      1.   Any person who disputes a charge appearing on a village service
account may appeal the charge by submitting a written appeal to the village
finance director within five (5) business days of the face date of the first
invoice on which such charge appears. Any such appeals shall be reviewed by the
village, and the village shall respond to such appeals in writing.
      2.   Any person who believes that his water meter is inaccurate may
request to have the water meter tested for accuracy. A water meter operating
within a five percent (5%) margin of error shall be deemed accurate for
purposes of this chapter. Regardless of the accuracy of the meter, the party
requesting the testing shall be responsible for all costs of testing the meter.
In the event the meter is inaccurate by more than five percent (5%), the person
requesting the testing shall have the option of replacing the meter, and if the
meter is replaced, the person requesting the testing shall be responsible for
the full cost of replacement (including labor and materials).
   C.   Accountability For Invoices:
      1.   Any person who is listed as a responsible party with respect to any
property in the village shall be accountable for all such properties for which
they are listed, and each property may be cross billed in the village’s sole
and absolute discretion (i.e., if one person is the owner of multiple
properties and fails to pay the invoice associated with any one of those
properties, all of the properties may be subject to the procedures described
above for delinquent payments).
      2.   Any person listed as a responsible party with respect to a property
in the village that has delinquent charges as noted above shall be ineligible
to establish a new village service account or new village water service until
all delinquent amounts are paid in full.
      3.   In addition to the foregoing, the village shall track village
service accounts by property. Should a property be sold to a third party, prior
to the third party establishing a new village service account and/or
establishing village water service to the property, all delinquent amounts
relating to that property must be paid in full regardless of the identity of
the person under whose ownership the delinquent charges were incurred.
(Ord. 2010-12, 7-6-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-O-32, 12-19-2022; Ord. 2024-O-06, 4-1-
2024)
CHAPTER 7
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Tax Imposed
3-7-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-7-4: Returns To Department
3-7-5: Resellers
3-7-6: Severability
3-7-7: Effective Date; Rate Change
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definition of those terms defined at 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 636/5-7
(as such statute may be modified, amended or updated) are adopted by reference,
as if restated in full herein. Any future amendment to that section shall be
considered to have been adopted in full, by reference. "Municipality" shall
refer to the village of Pingree Grove, Kane County, Illinois. (Ord. 2011-27, 8-
15-2011)
3-7-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in such municipality or receiving
in such municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of
three percent (3%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multimunicipal taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another municipality on that event,
shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by
this section to the extent of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in
the municipality that was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
municipal tax.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in such municipality or receiving
in such municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of
three percent (3%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multistate or multimunicipal taxation
of the act or privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any
taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state or
municipality in this state on such event, shall be allowed a credit against any
tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the extent of the
amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state or such tax
properly due and paid in a municipality in this state which was not previously
allowed as a credit against any other state or local tax in this state.
   C.   However, such tax is not imposed on the act or privilege to the extent
such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by municipalities in this state.
(Ord. 2011-36, 10-3-2011)
   D.   The telecommunications tax currently imposed by this section is done so
under the authority granted by 35 Illinois Compiled Statues 636/5-10, and all
current and future taxes levied under this section, including rate increases,
shall be in compliance with the language set forth in that statute, hereby
incorporated into this code as follows:
The corporate authorities shall have the authority to tax any and all of the
following acts or privileges:
      1.   The act or privilege of originating in such municipality or
receiving in such municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person. To
prevent actual multimunicipal taxation of the act or privilege that is subject
to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer
has paid a tax in another municipality on that event, shall be allowed a credit
against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the extent
of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in the municipality that was not
previously allowed as a credit against any other municipal tax.
      2.   The act or privilege of originating in such municipality or
receiving in such municipality interstate telecommunications by a person. To
prevent actual multistate or multimunicipal taxation of the act or privilege
that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon proof
that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state or municipality in this state
on such event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or
authorized by this section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due
and paid in such other state or such tax properly due and paid in a
municipality in this state which was not previously allowed as a credit against
any other state or local tax in this state. (Ord. 2012-02, 3-19-2012)
3-7-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 2011-27, 8-15-2011)
3-7-4: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
On or before the last day of the first month after this chapter takes effect,
and on or before the last day of every month thereafter, the tax imposed under
this chapter on telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate
forms and information as required by the department pursuant to section 5-50 of
the Illinois simplified municipal telecommunications tax act 1  and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to implement the
act. (Ord. 2011-27, 8-15-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-50.
3-7-5: RESELLERS:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of originating
or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax free on the
grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active resale
number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 2011-27, 8-15-2011)
3-7-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision of this
chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this chapter, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord. 2011-
27, 8-15-2011)
3-7-7: EFFECTIVE DATE; RATE CHANGE:
   A.   Initial Rate: This chapter shall be in full force and effect on and
after its approval, passage and publication in pamphlet form as provided by
law, provided, however, that: 1) sections
3-7-2 and
3-7-3 of this chapter shall take effect for all bills issued on or after
January 1, 2012; 2) the tax provided for herein shall take effect for all bills
issued on or after January 1, 2012; and 3) any amounts due or payable to the
municipality for any tax periods ending prior to the first day of the first
month following the effective date hereof, shall nevertheless remain payable as
if this chapter had not been adopted. The board acknowledges that, by previous
action of the village, there is presently imposed a telecommunications tax at
the rate of one percent (1%); said rate shall remain in effect until January 1,
2012.
   B.   Rate Escalator: The rates imposed under section
3-7-2 of this chapter shall be initially set at three percent (3%) as
contemplated therein. Effective for all bills issued on or after July 1, 2012,
the tax rate imposed under section
3-7-2 of this chapter shall automatically increase to six percent (6%), unless
the village takes future action to amend this chapter and alter the rate
imposed. (Ord. 2011-27, 8-15-2011)
CHAPTER 8
GAS UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
3-8-1: Tax Established
3-8-2: Exemptions
3-8-3: Definitions
3-8-4: Effective Date
3-8-5: Tax Returns
3-8-6: Limitations
3-8-7: Penalties
3-8-8: Severability
3-8-9: Rate Escalator
3-8-1: TAX ESTABLISHED:
A tax is hereby established and levied by the village upon persons engaged in
the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas for use or
consumption within the limits of the village and not for resale, at the rate of
three percent (3%) of the gross receipts from such business. The taxes
enumerated in this chapter shall be in addition to the payment of money or
value of products or services furnished to the municipality by the taxpayer as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
(Ord. 2011-28, 8-15-2011)
3-8-2: EXEMPTIONS:
No taxes authorized by this chapter are imposed with respect to the following,
and as to any such, the provider shall not be required to collect any such
taxes:
   A.   The village and/or transactions originating from any and all village
owned property;
   B.   Any transaction in interstate commerce, or otherwise, to the extent to
which such transaction may not, under the constitution or statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by the state of Illinois, or any
political subdivision thereof;
   C.   Any person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling of gas, for any such transactions as are now or may
become in the future subject to taxation under the provisions of the municipal
retailers' occupation tax act, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1 et seq.;
and
   D.   Any person engaged in a business, or in any privilege, unless the tax
in question has been imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all
persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the municipality, or
exercising the same privilege, within the village. (Ord. 2011-28, 8-15-2011)
3-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of the tax enumerated in this chapter the following definitions
shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale; and for
all services rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received
in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property of every
kind and material and for all services rendered therewith, and shall be
determined without any deduction on account of the cost of transmitting such
gas without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product or
commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any
other expenses whatsoever.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal corporation or
political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court. (Ord. 2011-28, 8-15-2011)
3-8-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter and the tax imposed hereunder shall be effective as of the first
day of the first month following passage and approval of this chapter. (Ord.
2011-28, 8-15-2011)
3-8-5: TAX RETURNS:
   A.   Each taxpayer shall make a return to the village treasurer as provided
herein, stating the following information:
      1.   Name.
      2.   Principal place of business.
      3.   Gross receipts during the applicable period.
      4.   Amount of tax to be paid to the village for the period.
      5.   Such other related information as the village may require.
   B.   Returns shall be filed quarterly, and on or before May 31, each
taxpayer shall make said return to the village treasurer for the previous
months of January, February and March; and on or before the last day of each
third month thereafter each taxpayer shall make a like return to the village
treasurer for the corresponding three (3) month period.
   C.   The taxpayer making such return shall, at the time of making such
return, pay to the village treasurer the amount of tax herein imposed; provided
that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he so elects, report
and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to the tax
during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any amounts
previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any
differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   D.   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
(3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord.
2011-28, 8-15-2011)
3-8-6: LIMITATIONS:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this chapter
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 2011-28, 8-15-2011)
3-8-7: PENALTIES:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine as
otherwise provided in this code. In addition, said taxpayer may be subject to a
civil action for recovery of any tax due. (Ord. 2011-28, 8-15-2011)
3-8-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision of this
chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this chapter, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord. 2011-
28, 8-15-2011)
3-8-9: RATE ESCALATOR:
The rates imposed under section
3-8-1 of this chapter shall be initially set at three percent (3%) as
contemplated therein. Effective for all bills issued on or after March 1, 2012,
the tax rate imposed under section
3-8-1 of this chapter shall automatically increase to five percent (5%), unless
the village takes future action to amend this chapter and alter the rate
imposed. (Ord. 2011-28, 8-15-2011)
CHAPTER 9
PLACES FOR EATING TAX
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Tax Imposed
3-9-3: Registration
3-9-4: Books And Records; Inspection; Contents
3-9-5: Transmittal Of Tax Revenue By Owner; Delinquency
3-9-6: Transmittal Of Excess Tax Collections
3-9-7: Collection
3-9-8: Suspension Of Licenses
3-9-9: Penalties
3-9-10: Village-Sponsored Special Events
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
            The consideration received, valued in money, whether received in money or
            otherwise, including cash, credits, property and services, at a place for eating
            for prepared food furnished at the place for eating. Gross receipts do not
            include amounts paid for federal, state and local taxes, including the tax levied
            by this article, and do not include amounts paid as gratuities for the employees
            of the place for eating.
            A.   Gross receipts shall include consideration as defined herein received for
            food which is prepared by a food or catering business operated within the
            corporate limits of the Village and which is consumed at, or which is intended
            for delivery to and consumption at, a location within the Village.
            B.   Gross receipts shall include consideration as defined herein received for
GROSS       food which is prepared by a food or catering business operated outside the
RECEIPTS:   corporate limits of the Village but which is consumed at, or which is intended
            for delivery to and consumption at, a location within the Village.
            C.   Gross receipts shall not include consideration as defined herein received
            for food which is prepared by a food or catering business operated within the
            corporate limits of the Village and which is consumed at, or which is intended
            for delivery to and consumption at, a location outside the corporate limits of
            the Village.
            D.   Gross receipts shall not include consideration as defined herein for the
            sale of prepared food delivered or sold directly to consumers from automated
            vending machines.
            E.   Gross receipts shall not include consideration, as defined herein, for
            prepared food which is provided to students of cooking classes where no charge is
            made for the prepared food other than the cost of enrollment in the class.
OWNER:      Any person and each person having an ownership interest in or conducting the
            operation of a place for eating.
            Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock company,
PERSON or   joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability company or the
PERSONS:    like, club, fraternal organization, or a receiver, executor, trustee, conservator
            or its representative appointed by order of any court.
            A.   "Places for eating" or "place for eating" means all premises located within
            the corporate limits of the Village where prepared food is sold at retail for
            immediate consumption, whether consumed on the premises or not, and including but
            not limited to such a place with seating provided for consumption of said
PLACES FOR  prepared food on the premises, and whether or not such place for eating is
EATING or   conducted along with any other use in a common premise or business establishment.
PLACE FOR   B.   "Places for eating" or "place for eating" includes, but is not limited to,
EATING:     those establishments commonly called a restaurant, eating place, drive-in
            restaurant, buffet, bakery, banquet facility, cafeteria, café, lunch counter,
            fast food outlet, catering service, coffee shop, diner, sandwich shop, soda
            fountain, bar, cocktail lounge, video gaming establishment, soft drink parlor,
            ice cream parlor, tea room, delicatessen, hotel, motel, or club, or any other
            establishment which sells at retail prepared food for immediate consumption.
            Means and includes any solid, liquid (including both alcoholic and non-alcoholic
PREPARED    liquid), gel, compound, powder or item used or intended to be used for human
FOOD:       internal consumption, whether simple, compound or mixed, and which has been
            prepared for consumption or offered for sale by a place for eating.
            To sell for use or consumption in exchange for a consideration, whether in the
SOLD AT     form of money, credits, barter or any other nature, and not for resale, with said
RETAIL:     transaction being subject to either the Illinois Retailers' Occupation Tax (ILCS
            Ch. 35, Act 120 §§ I et seq.) or the Illinois Service Occupation Tax (ILCS Ch.
            35, Act 1IS §§ I et seq.).
UNIT OF     Any municipal, township, special district, and/or school district entity with a
LOCAL       place of operation located in the Village.
GOVERNMENT:
FINANCE     The person appointed to said office, including a Village Finance Director, and/or
DIRECTOR:   his or her designee, deputy, or representative.
ALCOHOLIC   Any alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, ale or other alcoholic beverage which is sold
LIQUOR:     for consumption on premises where sold, or which is sold in its original
            packaging for consumption off the premises. (Ord. 2019-O-11, 4-1-2019)
 
3-9-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   There is hereby levied and imposed upon the owner(s) of a place for
eating a tax at the rate of two percent (2%) of gross receipts received for
prepared food sold at retail at the place of eating on or after May 1, 2019.
   B.   The owner of a place for eating may collect an amount from persons who
purchase prepared food at the place for eating which shall reimburse the owner
for the tax imposed on the owner by this chapter. The owner and operator of a
place for eating within the Village shall jointly and severally have the
liability to collect and account for said tax from each purchaser at the time
that the consideration for such purchase is paid.
   C.   The tax levied by this chapter shall be paid in addition to any and all
other taxes and charges.
   D.   In the event the prepared food is sold at retail on credit, an owner
shall not be liable for payment of the tax imposed by this article on such a
sale until the owner receives payment for the sale.
   E.   This tax shall not be imposed upon any unit of local government that
sells prepared foods within a facility owned or operated by such unit of local
government, whether such sales are made directly by the unit of local
government or by a third party selling prepared food on behalf of the unit of
local government pursuant to a contract between the unit of local government
and the third party. For purposes of this chapter, a public school operating as
a charter school under the provisions of the Illinois School Code shall be
considered a unit of local government.
   F.   This tax shall not be imposed on nursing homes, retirement centers or
similar residential care facilities which provide for the central preparation
of meals to be delivered to and consumed by invalids or the elderly.
   G.   The Finance Director shall be directed and authorized to generate all
such forms and take all such actions as shall be necessary to implement and
collect the tax contemplated herein. (Ord. 2019-O-11, 4-1-2019)
3-9-3: REGISTRATION:
Every owner maintaining a place for eating in the Village shall on a form
provided by the Village register such eating place by May 1, 2019, or on the
date of becoming such an owner, whichever is later. (Ord. 2019-O-11, 4-1-2019)
3-9-4: BOOKS AND RECORDS; INSPECTION; CONTENTS:
The Finance Director may enter the premises of any place for eating for
inspection, examination, copying and auditing of books and records including,
but not limited to, Illinois Retailers' Occupation Tax and Illinois Service
Occupation Tax returns filed with the Illinois Department of Revenue, in order
to effectuate the proper administration of this article, and to assure the
enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed by this article. To the extent
reasonably possible, said entry shall be done in a manner that is least
disruptive to the business of the place for eating and during normal business
hours.
   A.   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete books
and records to which the Finance Director shall at all times have full access,
which records shall include a daily sheet showing the amount of gross receipts
during that day.
      1.   The Village may, in its discretion, hire an independent party to
conduct an audit of said books and records.
      2.   The costs of such audit shall be borne by the owner.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere
with the Finance Director, or any independent auditor designated by them, in
the discharge of their duties under this subsection. (Ord. 2019-O-11, 4-1-2019)
3-9-5: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX REVENUE BY OWNER; DELINQUENCY:
   A.   The owner or owners of each place for eating shall each calendar month
file a sworn and verified tax return showing the gross receipts received during
such monthly period, upon forms prescribed by the Finance Director. Such forms
may be filed physically, or may be filed electronically via such website and/or
application as may be approved and implemented by the Finance Director.
      1.   At the time of the filing of said tax returns, the owner shall pay
to the Village all taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies.
      2.   Returns for each calendar month shall be due on or before the
twentieth day of the next calendar month, (e.g., the return for January shall
be due on or before the twentieth day of February; the return for February
shall be due on or before the twentieth day of March; etc.).
      3.   The form shall be accompanied by a copy of the Illinois Retailers'
Occupation Tax and Illinois Service Occupation Tax return forms filed with the
Illinois Department of Revenue to verify amounts paid to the Village and to the
State of Illinois for the same period as the return filed with the Village.
   B.   Any tax due pursuant to this article which is not paid when due shall
accrue interest at the rate of two percent (2%) monthly until paid.
   C.   In the event collection proceedings are initiated by the Village, the
owner shall be responsible for paying the costs incurred by the Village,
including but not limited to reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
   D.   In addition, the owner shall be subject to suspension of licenses and
penalties as set forth in Sections
3-9-7 through
3-9-9 below, or as otherwise provided by Village Code.
(Ord. 2019-O-11, 4-1-2019; amd. Ord. 2024-O-14, 5-20-2024)
3-9-6: TRANSMITTAL OF EXCESS TAX COLLECTIONS:
If any owner collects an amount upon a sale not subject to the tax imposed
hereby, but which amount is purported to be the collection of said tax, or if
an owner collects an amount upon a sale greater than the amount of the tax so
imposed herein, and does not for any reason return the same to the purchaser
who paid the same before filing the return for the period in which such
occurred, said owner shall account for and pay over those amounts to the
Village along with the tax properly collected. (Ord. 2019-O-11, 4-1-2019)
3-9-7: COLLECTION:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any amount due under this article, the
Village shall initiate a voluntary request for payment coupled with a proposed
settlement agreement and payment of a stipulated penalty. Should the Owner fail
to accept such proposal, the Village shall bring or cause to be brought an
action to enforce the payment of said amount on behalf of the Village in any
court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2019-O-11, 4-1-2019)
3-9-8: SUSPENSION OF LICENSES:
   A.   The Village President may suspend or revoke any or all Village licenses
held by an owner, if after hearing, he shall find that such owner has willfully
avoided payment of any sum due under this chapter.
      1.   The owner shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing.
      2.   The hearing shall be held not less than ten (10) days after notice
has been personally served on the owner or mailed to the owner addressed to
owner's last known place of business, stating the time when and the place where
the hearing is to be held.
   B.   Any suspension or revocation of any license(s) shall not release or
discharge the owner from his or her civil liability for the payment of any
amounts due hereunder, nor from prosecution for such offense.
   C.   Should the Village adopt comprehensive regulations relating to
suspension or revocation of Village-issued licenses or should the Village
maintain alternate suspension/revocation provisions in any Chapter of Village
Code, the Village may elect to utilize the suspension provisions outlined in
this Section
3-9-8 or may utilize the alternate methodology specified elsewhere in Village
Code, and may seek imposition of the sanctions contemplated herein. (Ord. 2019-
O-11, 4-1-2019)
3-9-9: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or
refusing to comply with or unlawfully resisting or opposing the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this chapter upon conviction thereof shall be punished
by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day upon which a person shall continue
any violation of this chapter, or permit any such violation to exist after
notification thereof, shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any
person subjected to the penalties provided for by this subsection shall not be
discharged or released from the payment of any amounts due pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 2019-O-11, 4-1-2019)
3-9-10: VILLAGE-SPONSORED SPECIAL EVENTS:
The Village President shall be authorized to approve of short-term exemptions
from the Prepared Foods Tax under this Chapter, for vendors who are engaged in
the sale of prepared foods at a Village-sponsored special event (such as the
Independence Day Celebration), on terms and conditions acceptable to the
President with the recommendation of the Finance Director. (Ord. 2019-O-21, 6-
17-2019)
CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-10-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
3-10-2: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-10-3: Non-Collection
3-10-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the City/Village at the rate
of 3% of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.
   B.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22). (Ord.
2019-O-52, 12-2-2019)
3-10-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller’s tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this article. (Ord. 2019-O-52, 12-2-2019)
3-10-3: NON-COLLECTION:
   A.   The failure to collect and remit the tax imposed under this chapter
shall be a violation of local law, punishable by a fine of not less than $750
per occurrence, per day, for each day that a violation shall exist, in addition
to any applicable state law requirements. (Ord. 2019-O-52, 12-2-2019)
CHAPTER 11
MUNICIPAL HOTEL OPERATORS' OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-11-1: Definitions
3-11-2: Tax Imposed
3-11-3: Payment And Collection
3-11-4: Administration And Enforcement
3-11-5: Penalty
3-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                    Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
                    consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping, or
HOTEL:              housekeeping accommodations. The term includes, but is not
                    limited to, inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging
                    houses, rooming houses and apartment houses, retreat
                    centers, conference centers, and hunting lodges.
                    The use or possession, or the right to the use or
                    possession, of any rooms in a hotel for any purpose, or the
OCCUPANCY:          right to the use or possession of the furnishings, or to
                    the services and accommodations accompanying the use and
                    possession of the room or rooms.
OPERATOR:           Any person operating a hotel.
                    Any person who has occupied or has the right to occupy any
PERMANENT RESIDENT: room or rooms, regardless of whether or not it is the same
                    room or rooms, in a hotel for at least thirty (30)
                    consecutive days.
                    Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association,
                    joint stock company, joint adventure, public or private
PERSON:             corporation, limited liability company or a receiver,
                    executor, trustee, guardian, or other representative
                    appointed by order of any court.
                    The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
RENT OR RENTAL:     whether received in money or otherwise, including all
                    receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any
                    kind or nature.
ROOM OR ROOMS:      Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping
                    accommodations. (Ord. 2023-O-11, 6-19-2023)
 
3-11-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the Village in the business
of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel at the rate of five percent
(5%) of the gross rental receipts from such renting, leasing or letting,
excluding, however, from gross rental receipts, the proceeds of such renting,
leasing or letting to permanent residents of that hotel. (Ord. 2023-O-11, 6-19-
2023)
3-11-3: PAYMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   Municipal Hotel Operators' Occupation Tax levied herein shall be paid
in addition to any and all other taxes. It shall be the duty of the operator of
every hotel said tax, and to pay over to the Village Manager or his/her
designee said tax on a monthly basis as provided herein.
   B.   Persons subject to this Municipal Hotel Operators' Occupation Tax may
reimburse themselves for their tax liability by separately stating such tax as
an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in a single
amount, with any State tax imposed under "The Hotel Operators' Occupation Tax
Act."
   C.   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to authorize the Village to
impose a tax upon the privilege of engaging in any business which under the
constitution of the United States may not be made the subject of taxation by
the State. (Ord. 2023-O-11, 6-19-2023)
3-11-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Inspections: The Village Manager or his/her designee may enter the
premises of any hotel for inspection and examination of books and records for
the proper administration of this chapter and enforcement and collection of the
Municipal Hotel Operators' Occupation Tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any
person to prevent, hinder or interfere with the Village Manager or his/her
designee in enforcing this ordinance.
   B.   Records Required: It shall be the duty of every person operating a
hotel in the Village to keep accurate and complete books and records to which
the Village Manager or his/her designee shall, at all times, have full access,
which records shall include a daily sheet showing:
      1.   The number of hotel rooms rented during the twenty four (24) hour
period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel when such occurs; and
      2.   The actual hotel room tax receipts collected from the date in
question.
   C.   Monthly Tax Returns: Every person operating a hotel shall file tax
returns showing tax receipts received with respect to each hotel during each
month of each year, within thirty (30) days after the end of the respective
date, upon forms prescribed by the rules and regulations of the Village Manager
or his/her designee. At the time of filing said tax returns, the operator shall
pay to the Village Manager or his/her designee all taxes due for the period
which the tax return applies. Each return shall be accompanied by payment to
the Village of all taxes due and owing for the quarter covered by the return.
   D.   Failure To Pay Tax:
      1.   Interest And Penalty: In the event any hotel owner, manager or
operator fails to collect and pay to the Village the Municipal Hotel Operators'
Occupation Tax required hereunder within thirty (30) days after the same is
due, interest shall accumulate and be due upon said tax owed the Village at the
rate of one percent (1%) per month commencing as of the first day of the month
following the month for which the tax was to have been collected and remitted
to the Village.
      2.   Suit For Collection: Whenever a person fails to pay the Municipal
Hotel Operators' Occupation Tax required herein, the Village Attorney shall,
upon the request of the Village Manager or his/her designee, bring or cause to
be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax on behalf of the
Village in any court of competent jurisdiction. Any legal fees incurred by the
Village in the cost of the collection shall be paid by the operator.
      3.   Revocation Of Village Licenses: If the Village Manager or his/her
designee, after conducting a hearing, finds that any person has willfully
avoided payment of the tax imposed herein, he may suspend or revoke all Village
licenses held by the hotel. The operator shall have an opportunity to be heard
at a hearing held not less than five (5) days after notice of the time and
place of hearing, with said notice addressed to the operator at the last known
place of business, has been delivered to the operator.
   E.   The amounts collected by the Village pursuant to this section shall be
expended by the Village solely to promote tourism and conventions within the
Village or otherwise to attract nonresident overnight visitors to the Village.
(Ord. 2023-O-11, 6-19-2023)
3-11-5: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense and be responsible for the Village's cost
of prosecution, including reasonable attorney fees. Each day that a violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2023-O-11, 6-19-2023)
CHAPTER 12
MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
AND MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-12-1: Municipal Grocery Retailers' Occupation Tax Imposed
3-12-2: Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax
3-12-3: Illinois Department Of Revenue To Administer Both Taxes
3-12-4: Clerk To File Ordinance With Illinois Department Of Revenue
3-12-5: Effective Date
3-12-1: MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED:
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
groceries at retail in this municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
chapter is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/8-11-24).
(Ord. 2025-O-07, 4-21-2025)
3-12-2: MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales
of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax shall be the same rate identified in Section 3-12-1, above. The
imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of
Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
(Ord. 2025-O-07, 4-21-2025)
3-12-3: ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO ADMINISTER BOTH TAXES:
   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-O-07, 4-21-2025)
3-12-4: CLERK TO FILE ORDINANCE WITH ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE:
   As required under Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/
8-11-24), the Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this chapter
with the Illinois Department of Revenue on or before October 1, 2025.
(Ord. 2025-O-07, 4-21-2025)
3-12-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
   The taxes imposed by this chapter shall take effect on the later of: (i)
January 1, 2026; (ii) the first day of July next following the adoption and
filing of this chapter with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or before
the preceding April 1; or, (iii) the first day of January next following the
adoption and filing of this chapter with the Department of Revenue, if filed on
or before the preceding October 1.
(Ord. 2025-O-07, 4-21-2025)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUSINESS, LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Persons Subject To License
4-1-2: Application For License Or Permit
4-1-3: Investigation Of Applicant
4-1-4: Fees
4-1-5: Signatures Required
4-1-6: License Year; Termination
4-1-7: Posting License
4-1-8: Change Of Location
4-1-9: Building And Premises Requirements
4-1-10: Nuisance Business Prohibited
4-1-11: Inspections And Analyses
4-1-12: Revocation Of License Or Permit
4-1-13: Appeal Procedure
4-1-14: Penalty
4-1-1: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation, or
conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in
any business activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject
to the requirement, if by himself, or through an agent, employee, or partner,
he holds himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation, or
solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively, or performs or attempts to
perform any part of such business or occupation in the village. (1990 Code
§12.101)
4-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be made
in writing to the village clerk in the absence of provision to the contrary.
Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered, and the fee to be
paid, and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
needed for the permit or license applied for. Forms for all licenses and
permits, and applications therefor, shall be prepared and kept on file by the
village clerk. (1990 Code §§12.102, 12.103)
4-1-3: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Upon the receipt of an application for license or permit where ordinances of
the village necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of
such permit or license, the village clerk shall refer such application to the
proper officer designated by the village president for making such
investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time of such receipt. The
officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or inspection shall
make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10) days after
receiving the application or copy thereof. Said report shall be made directly
to the village president. (1990 Code §12.105)
4-1-4: FEES:
   A.   Payment: In the absence of provisions to the contrary, all fees and
charges for licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time
application therefor is made to the village clerk.
   B.   No Proration: When an applicant has not engaged in the business until
after the expiration of part of the current license year, the license fee shall
not be prorated for any fraction of the license year, but the applicant shall
be required to pay the full license fee.
   C.   Refunds: There shall be no refund for cancellation or termination of a
license for any reason, unless otherwise provided.
   D.   Disposition Of Fees: Except as otherwise provided, all license fees
shall become a part of the general fund. (1990 Code §12.106)
4-1-5: SIGNATURES REQUIRED:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the village
president and the village clerk in the absence of any provision to the
contrary. (1990 Code §12.104)
4-1-6: LICENSE YEAR; TERMINATION:
The license year for the village shall begin on May 1 and end on April 30 of
each year. All annual licenses shall terminate on April 30 where no provision
to the contrary is made. (1990 Code §§12.107, 12.108)
4-1-7: POSTING LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business. (1990 Code §12.110)
4-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted act,
may be changed, provided ten (10) days' notice thereof is given to the village
clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided, that there is
compliance with the village building and zoning requirements. (1990 Code
§12.111)
4-1-9: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the village. No such
license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of the zoning ordinance
of the village. (1990 Code §12.112)
4-1-10: NUISANCE BUSINESS PROHIBITED:
No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact. (1990 Code §12.113)
4-1-11: INSPECTIONS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   Inspections: Whenever inspections of a premises used for or in
connection with the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided
for or required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance
with any ordinance provision, or detect violations thereof, it shall be the
duty of the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected,
to admit thereto, for the purpose of making the inspection, any officer or
employee of the village who is authorized or directed to make such inspection
at any reasonable time that admission is requested.
   B.   Analyses: Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is
reasonably necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to
detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee whose business
is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee of
the village requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or
commodity for such analysis upon request. In addition to any other penalty
which may be provided, the village president may revoke the license of any
licensed proprietor of any licensed business in the village who refuses to
permit any such officer or employee who is authorized to make such inspection
or take such samples to make the inspection or take an adequate sample of the
said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his duty in making such inspection; provided, that no license
shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee
or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the village, stating that
such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the
inspection or obtain the sample. (1990 Code §12.114)
4-1-12: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Authority: Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by
the village president at any time during the life of such license or permit for
any violation by the licensee or permittee of the ordinance provisions relating
to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit, or to
the premises occupied; and such revocation may be in addition to any fine
imposed. (1990 Code §12.109)
   B.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the village officials have so
acted, the village president shall call a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether or not the license or permit should be revoked.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent to
the licensee or permittee by certified mail at his last known address or
personally served at least five (5) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   D.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The village president shall preside and shall render the decision
and recommendation.
   E.   Causes For Revocation: Licenses or permits issued under the ordinances
of the village, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the village
president and board of trustees after notice and hearing as provided in
subsections B and C of this section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or state law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the village.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized village officer or employee while in the performance of
his duties in making such inspections, as provided in this code. (2011 Code)
4-1-13: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the village
to issue a license or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall
have the right to appeal the village decision to the village board of trustees.
Such appeal shall be requested by submitting a written request to the village
president within five (5) days of the action of the village which is appealed.
   B.   Village Board Of Trustees Consideration: The village board of trustees
shall consider the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which
time the applicant shall be entitled to present his appeal orally or in
writing. The village board of trustees shall act on the appeal within seven (7)
days of the hearing and shall either uphold the action of the village or shall
direct the issuance of a license or permit which the village has denied or the
reissuance of a license or permit which the village had revoked. (2011 Code)
4-1-14: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code §12.115; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Local Liquor Control Commission
4-2-3: Licenses And Compliance Required
4-2-4: Certain Businesses Ineligible For License
4-2-5: Application For License; Fee
4-2-6: Insurance Requirements
4-2-7: Outstanding Debts
4-2-8: Investigation Of Applicant
4-2-9: Amendments To And General Conditions Of License
4-2-10: Classification Of Licenses; Fees; Daily Permit
4-2-10-1: Classification Of Licenses; Fees
4-2-10-2: Daily Permit
4-2-11: Payment And Disposition Of Fees
4-2-12: Number Of Licenses
4-2-13: Term And Expiration Of License; Fees Prorated
4-2-14: Renewal Of License
4-2-15: Display Of License
4-2-16: Deceased, Insolvent, Bankrupt Licensee
4-2-17: Nontransferability Of License
4-2-18: Abandonment Of Premises
4-2-19: Location
4-2-20: Building And Premises
4-2-21: Closing Hours
4-2-22: Employees
4-2-23: Persons Under Twenty One
4-2-24: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited; Conduct On Premises
4-2-25: Adult Activities And Businesses
4-2-26: Additional Restrictions And Prohibitions
4-2-27: Mandatory Meeting; List Of Owners, Managers And Employees
4-2-28: Records Kept
4-2-29: BASSET Training
4-2-30: Inspections And Enforcement
4-2-31: License Revocation Authorized
4-2-32: Revocation, Suspension Or Fine
4-2-33: Penalties
4-2-34: State Authorized Electronic Or Video Gaming Permitted With License
4-2-35: Liquor Caterer License
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms, as used in this
chapter, shall be construed according to the definitions given below. In
addition, any reference to "liquor commission" shall mean the local liquor
control commission, and any reference to "commissioner" shall mean the local
liquor control commissioner.
ADULT BUSINESS: Any business which:
   A.   Offers any service, product or other item or thing whatsoever,
including, but not limited to, books, movies, software or magazines, for sale
(as defined herein) on its premises, which service, product or other item is
restricted to only being offered for sale to persons above the age of eighteen
(18) years (excluding alcohol and tobacco products);
   B.   Features topless dancers, strippers, "go-go" dancers, male or female
impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows;
   C.   Features or permits entertainers, employees or customers who display
less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, female breasts (with any portion of the areola visible), or male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely
covered; or
   D.   Features entertainers or permits employees, customers or occupants to,
by reason of their appearance or conduct, perform in a manner which is designed
primarily to appeal to the prurient interest of the patron, or features
entertainers/employees/customers who engage in actual or explicit simulation of
sexual stimulation or arousal, sexual acts, sexual intercourse, bestiality,
oral copulation or sodomy, touching/fondling/caressing/exotic touching of human
genitals, buttock or female breasts, display of breasts, buttock, pubic hair,
anus, vulva or genitals, or who display pictures/movies/other displays of any
of the foregoing.
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol. The term does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
APPLICANT: The person or persons filing an application for an alcoholic liquor
license, and in the case of a partnership or corporation or other business
entity, it includes all of the partners, officers and/or directors of the
business entity.
BED AND BREAKFAST: A business lawfully operated out of a residential structure
with not fewer than one nor more than five (5) rooms available to the public
for short term (not shorter than 24 hours nor longer than 2 weeks at a time)
rent, where one or more meals are actually offered for service to any guests as
a component of their room rental rate.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
BEER GARDEN: An open outdoor area, with or without a roof, where alcoholic
beverages are served and/or consumed.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment, and maintaining a sufficient number of
servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for
its members and their guests; provided, that such club files with the village
president, at the time of its application for a license under this chapter, two
(2) copies of a list of the names and addresses of its members; and provided
further, that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: Any item which is:
   A.   Identified under applicable municipal code or Illinois law as drug
paraphernalia;
   B.   Converted for use as a tool or instrument to enable the use,
consumption or smoking of any controlled or unlawful substance; or
   C.   Any inflammable pipe, tubing, appliance, instrument or combination
thereof which is designed for and may be used to smoke any substance, whether
directly or by drawing the same through a container of water or other liquid,
including, but not limited to, items commonly referred to as "bongs",
"hitters", or "hookahs", but excluding:
      1.   Any device which is permanently connected to a lawful tobacco
product (e.g., filtered cigarette or "tip" cigar); or
      2.   Pipes not longer than seven inches (7") in overall length, with a
single ninety degree (90°) bend, comprised of an area to insert tobacco for
smoking, and a cylindrical tube extending therefrom for the purpose of inhaling
said smoke.
EMPLOYEE: Any person or persons who tend any bar or draw, pour or mix any
alcoholic liquor while working for any retail alcoholic liquor licensee. The
term employee or employees shall include any independent contractor.
GENERAL SERVICE BAR: A bar at which patrons may sit in order to purchase,
accept, drink or receive alcoholic liquor.
GIFT BASKET: An assembly of various gourmet food products and specialty items
in their original manufacturer's packaging contained in a basket, box or
decorative container, wholly wrapped with transparent cellophane wrapping and
sold together as one unit.
GOLF COURSE: A recreational area, with or without clubhouse facilities,
primarily for the use by members and their guests or the general public, as the
case may be, engaging in a form of recreation commonly known as golf.
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed
and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and
guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty five (25)
or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same
building or buildings in connection therewith, and such building or buildings,
structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and
dining room equipment and capacity.
INTERIOR RETAIL FLOOR SPACE: That portion of a store which is completely
enclosed and accessible to the public, at which items are offered for sale,
including floor space, flooring under shelving used to offer items for sale,
cooler/refrigerator areas that are accessible to the public (i.e., that portion
which may be accessed by reaching through a door/opening available to the
public, and not that portion which is used for storage or is only accessible to
employees), or other similar areas, and excluding restrooms, storage areas or
other areas not normally accessible to the public, checkout counters and
related checkout or queue areas.
LICENSEE: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or club holding an
alcoholic liquor license under the provisions of this chapter.
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT: Performance, act or display of musicians, singers, magic
acts, clowns, dancers or comedians that does not include sexually suggestive
acts or routines.
MICROBREWERY: Any place or establishment that engages in the production,
manufacturing, or brewing of beer on the premises by means of adequate and
sanitary equipment designed and maintained to facilitate the brewing process
and that dispenses that beer produced on the premises (and/or other alcohol)
for consumption on the premises and/or packaged for retail sale (other than
private brewing solely for personal consumption of a quantity permitted under
Illinois law without a liquor license).
MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead or
other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
PEDDLING: The selling, bartering or exchanging, or the offering for sale,
barter or exchange, of any tangible personal property upon or along the
streets, highways, or public places of the village or from house to house,
whether at one place or from place to place, from any wagon, truck, pushcart,
or other vehicle or from movable receptacles of any kind.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually and
regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided
with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and
having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare,
cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
RESTRICTED SERVICE BAR: A permanent or portable bar which contains alcoholic
liquor, mixes and related paraphernalia which are used in the preparation of
alcoholic drinks but does not and shall not have seats or stools or other
places for persons to sit while drinking an alcoholic beverage. A restricted
service bar is solely to be used for the preparation and disbursement of drinks
at the food service tables or other locations away from the bar.
RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE OR SELL: Any transfer, exchange, barter or give away in any manner, or by
any means whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and
through the transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, or
the distribution of alcohol as a promotional item or incentive, and includes
and means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee.
SELL AT RETAIL AND SALE AT RETAIL: Refer to and mean sales for use or
consumption (whether on premises or off premises) and not for resale in any
form.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
VILLAGE: The village of Pingree Grove, Kane County, Illinois.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits", as defined in this
section. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION:
   A.   Established; Local Liquor Control Commissioner:
      1.   For purposes of the administration of this chapter, there is
established a local liquor control commission that shall be charged with the
administration of the laws of the state and the village pertaining to the sale
of alcoholic liquor.
      2.   The village president is hereby designated as the local liquor
control commissioner and shall be charged with the administration and empowered
pursuant to the applicable state and federal laws and of such ordinances and
resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be passed from time to time by
the board of trustees.
      3.   The village president, as local liquor control commissioner, shall
be the chair and chief administrative officer of the local liquor control
commission, which shall consist of three (3) members, including the village
president and two (2) members of the board of trustees, who shall be appointed
by the village president on an annual basis at the second regular village board
meeting in April, with said appointments to become effective on May 1
immediately following the appointments.
      4.   For purposes of the initial creation of the local liquor control
commission, the village president shall appoint two (2) village trustees to the
local liquor control commission for an initial term to expire on April 30,
2010.
      5.   In the absence of the village president, one of the appointed
members of the local liquor control commission shall be designated acting local
liquor control commissioner and shall obtain the responsibilities of such
office.
   B.   Authority And Actions:
      1.   The local liquor control commission shall have the authority to
grant, suspend and/or revoke alcoholic liquor licenses in accordance with
applicable state and federal laws, village ordinances and resolutions, and any
rules and regulations established by and for said commission.
      2.   All official actions of any decisions by the local liquor control
commission shall require a simple majority vote of those members present
constituting a quorum. A quorum shall require the presence of not less than two
(2) members of said commission.
      3.   The local liquor control commission shall have the right to examine,
or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for a
renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension
has been served as provided by statute, and to examine the books and records of
any such applicant or licensee, to hear testimony and take proofs for its
information in the performance of its duties, and for such purpose, to issue
subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state. For the purpose of
obtaining any of the information desired by the local liquor control commission
under this section, the commission may authorize its agent to act on its
behalf.
   C.   Meetings: The local liquor control commission shall meet from time to
time as may be necessary to carry forth its statutory duties, including, but
not limited to, an annual meeting to review applications on the third Monday in
April of each calendar year. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-3: LICENSES AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Village License And Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful to sell
or offer for sale at retail in the village any alcoholic liquor without having
a retail liquor dealer's license or in violation of the terms of such license.
   B.   State License Required: Except in those circumstances in which the
state of Illinois liquor control commission requires evidence of a local liquor
license first, the village shall only issue a valid liquor license when the
licensee provides a copy of the license issued by the state of Illinois liquor
control commission. If the village is required to issue a local liquor license
first under state law, such issuance shall be contingent upon the issuance of a
state liquor license. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-4: CERTAIN BUSINESSES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are persons under the age of twenty one (21) or where the principal
business transacted consists of schoolbooks, school supplies, food, lunches or
drinks for such persons. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   General Requirements: Applications for liquor licenses shall be made to
the local liquor control commission in writing, signed by the applicant if an
individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof if a group or corporation,
verified by oath or affidavit, and shall be addressed to the local liquor
control commissioner, and shall further contain a statement and information as
found in exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein. The act of
applying for a license and the act of receiving a license from the village
shall constitute the applicant's express and irrevocable acceptance of the
terms of this chapter and the requirements hereunder (or as shall be amended
from time to time), and the waiver of any claim or challenge against the
village or the liquor control commission or any agents, employees, or
representatives thereof in any way related to this chapter.
   B.   Contents Of Application: Application for a liquor license shall be
filed with the commissioner, in writing, signed by the applicant if an
individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof if a club, corporation or
other legally recognized entity, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall
contain full and complete responses to the requested statements and information
which shall be immediately updated if any of said statements or information
changes during the term of any license. In the event the applicant is a
corporation, limited liability company, general partnership or limited
partnership, said application shall be signed by any member, officer, manager,
director, partner (silent and limited) or stockholder owning more than five
percent (5%) interest in the corporation, limited liability company, general
partnership or limited partnership, as the case may be. Each applicant must
submit acceptable proof of ownership when the applicant is the property owner
of the premises, or a copy of a fully executed lease of premises when the
applicant is not the property owner of the premises for which he or she is
seeking a license. Such lease must have a coverage period equal to or longer
than the duration of the applicant's liquor license. The lease must name the
applicant as lessee. Applications shall contain the following information and
statements and can be amended to require additional information as deemed
necessary and appropriate by the liquor control commissioner:
      1.   The name, birth date, social security number and address of the
applicant in the case of an individual; in the case of a partnership, the name,
birth date and social security number of each partner owning more than five
percent (5%) interest and a copy of the partnership agreement; and in the case
of a corporation or other legally recognized entity, the articles of
organization, the names, birth dates, social security numbers and addresses of
the officers, directors and/or members owning five percent (5%) or more
interest in the corporation.
      2.   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, and if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization. Proof
of citizenship is required.
      3.   The character of business of the applicant.
      4.   The length of time said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued.
      5.   The location and legal description of the premises or place of
business which is to be operated under such license. Each application shall
contain a diagram of the premises which depicts the location of any service
bars.
      6.   A statement whether applicant has made application for a similar or
other license on premises other than described in the application, and the
disposition of such application.
      7.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this subsection, the laws of this state or the ordinances, rules
or resolutions of the village.
      8.   Whether a previous license by any state, or subdivision thereof, or
by the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons thereof.
      9.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state, or of the United States, or any ordinance, rule or resolution of the
village in the conduct of his or her place of business.
      10.   Proof of completion of a state certified BASSET program for all
persons who sell or serve alcoholic beverages, all management personnel working
on the premises and anyone whose job description entails checking
identification for the purchase of alcoholic beverages pursuant to that
license.
      11.   As a condition of the application, the applicant shall agree to
indemnify the village from any liability or harm that may result through the
issuance of a liquor license or the exercise of a liquor license once it is
obtained. In addition, the applicant shall agree to allow the village
unrestricted access to the premises for compliance check and enforcement
purposes. The applicant will execute an agreement specifying the same.
   C.   Application Fee: A nonrefundable application fee in the amount of one-
half (1/2) of the applicable license fee for which the application is made
shall be payable upon the initial application for any liquor license
classification except supplemental licenses or daily liquor licenses. The
renewal of liquor licenses as provided in section
4-2-14 of this chapter shall not be subject to this application fee. (Ord.
2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-6: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No license shall be issued to any person or entity that cannot produce
a policy of insurance by a solvent and responsible company authorized to do
business in the state of Illinois with an A.M. Best's rating of "B" or better
insuring said person or entity against liability for any injury or death which
said parties may incur while operating under the provisions of the liquor
control act as follows:
      1.   One million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per person and one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence for bodily injury liability; one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for loss of means of support; and one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for property damage liability; or
      2.   A one million dollar ($1,000,000.00) single limit dramshop policy.
      3.   No license shall be issued to any person or entity that cannot
produce a policy of insurance by a solvent and responsible company authorized
to do business in the state insuring said person or entity against general
liability in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
   B.   In the event of cancellation, the liquor control commissioner shall be
notified immediately of such cancellation. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-7: OUTSTANDING DEBTS:
An applicant or holder of a liquor license shall not be indebted to the
village. Any indebtedness in excess of thirty (30) days shall constitute the
basis for the denial and/or revocation of a liquor license. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-
5-2009)
4-2-8: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
No license shall be issued hereunder until the applicant shall have been
investigated by the liquor commission and a report filed in the records of said
commission approving the issuance of such license. As a part of this
investigation, the liquor commission shall have the right to require
fingerprints of all new and renewal applicants. For purposes of obtaining
fingerprints under this section, the liquor commission shall collect a fee in
the amount specified on the application and forward the fee to the police
department. A copy of fingerprints shall be held on record by the chief of
police or his or her designee. In addition, the applicant shall sign a release
authorizing the police department to conduct a criminal background check. (Ord.
2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-9: AMENDMENTS TO AND GENERAL CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
Any and all licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to any
and all changes or amendments which may be hereafter made and any and all rules
adopted by the commissioner or liquor commission. Any and all licenses shall be
subject to any restrictions or conditions deemed desirable by the liquor
commission or the commissioner. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-10: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES; DAILY PERMIT:
4-2-10-1: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES:
Liquor licenses shall be divided into the following classes:
   A.   Class A1:
      1.   A class A1 license authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic beverages
for consumption on the premises only, as a supplement to the serving of food,
such as a restaurant, inn, banquet hall or eating establishment. Alcoholic
liquor may be served to the customers at their tables or dispensed from one or
more general service bars. Live entertainment is permitted in establishments
holding a class A1 license subject to restrictions set forth in subsection
4-2-26A of this chapter.
      2.   The fee for a class A1 license shall be one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00).
      3.   A class A1 license holder may apply for the following additional
supplemental licenses:
         a.   Packaged goods.
         b.   Outdoor seating.
         c.   Extended hours.
         d.   Special events.
   B.   Class A2:
      1.   A class A2 license authorizes the retail sale of "beer" and "wine"
only, as defined in the Illinois liquor control act, for consumption on the
premises only, as a supplement to the serving of food, such as a restaurant,
inn, banquet hall or eating establishment. Beer and wine may be served to the
customers at their tables or dispensed from one or more general service bars.
Live entertainment is permitted in establishments holding a class A2 license
subject to restrictions set forth in subsection
4-2-26A of this chapter.
      2.   The fee for a class A2 license shall be one thousand two hundred
dollars ($1,200.00).
      3.   A class A2 license holder may apply for the following additional
supplemental licenses:
         a.   Packaged goods.
         b.   Outdoor seating.
         c.   Extended hours.
         d.   Special events.
   C.   Class B:
      1.   A class B license authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic beverages
for consumption on the premises only. Live entertainment is permitted in
establishments holding a class B license subject to restrictions set forth in
subsection
4-2-26A of this chapter.
      2.   The fee for a class B license shall be one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00).
      3.   A class B license holder may apply for the following additional
supplemental licenses:
         a.   Packaged goods.
         b.   Outdoor seating.
         c.   Extended hours.
         d.   Special events.
   D.   Class C1:
      1.   A class C1 license authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in
its original package for consumption off the premises only. This license class
is intended for retailers whose business is predominantly liquor sales.
      2.   A class C1 license shall be subject to the following:
         a.   There shall be no limitation to the amount of interior retail
floor space that can be devoted to alcoholic liquor sales.
         b.   All exterior signage shall be regulated by the village zoning
ordinance.
         c.   All employees selling, delivering, checking out or receiving
payment for packaged alcoholic liquor sales shall be at least twenty one (21)
years of age.
         d.   The business must be closed during nonliquor sales hours.
         e.   The sale of drug paraphernalia shall be prohibited from any
establishment holding a liquor license.
      3.   The fee for a class C1 license shall be one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00).
      4.   A class C1 license holder may apply for the following additional
supplemental licenses: Sampling.
   E.   Class C2:
      1.   A class C2 license authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in
its original package for consumption off the premises only. This license class
is intended for retailers whose business is not primarily based on liquor sales
such as grocery stores or convenience stores.
      2.   A class C2 license shall be subject to the following:
         a.   The amount of interior retail floor space that can be devoted to
alcoholic liquor sales shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total
retail floor space. Beer, wine or alcoholic liquor displays shall be included
in the calculation of interior retail floor space used for alcoholic sales.
         b.   All exterior signage shall be regulated by the village zoning
ordinance.
         c.   All employees selling, delivering, checking out or receiving
payment for packaged alcoholic liquor sales shall be at least twenty one (21)
years of age.
         d.   No temporary point of sale, beer or wine advertising shall be
located on gasoline islands, and no lighted or unlighted permanent signage
advertising beer or wine shall be located on buildings, in windows or within
five feet (5') of any window.
         e.   Beer, wine or alcoholic liquor displays shall be prohibited
within ten feet (10') of the cash registers/checkout counters or the front
doors of the premises.
         f.   All liquor must be physically separate from other types of
business or goods for sale on the premises.
         g.   Beer and wine displays shall be prohibited in any pharmacy
section and toy and/or children's aisle of the premises.
         h.   If a business remains open during nonliquor sales hours, all
electrical refrigeration coolers or other cabinets utilized for beer and wine
sales shall be secured and locked and all displays shall be covered with an
opaque material during nonliquor sales hours.
         i.   The sale of drug paraphernalia shall be prohibited from any
establishment holding a liquor license.
         j.   Beer and wine sales shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of all
retail sales in such establishment, exclusive of gasoline sales, during any
twelve (12) consecutive month period.
      3.   The fee for a class C2 license shall be one thousand two hundred
fifty dollars ($1,250.00).
      4.   A class C2 license holder is not eligible for supplemental licenses.
   F.   Class C3:
      1.   A class C3 license authorizes the retail sale of "beer" and "wine"
only, as defined in the Illinois liquor control act, in its original package
for consumption off the premises only. This license class is intended for
retailers whose business is predominantly beer and wine sales such as a
specialty wine purveyor.
      2.   A class C3 license shall be subject to the following:
         a.   There shall be no limitation to the amount of interior retail
floor space that can be devoted to beer and wine sales.
         b.   All exterior signage shall be regulated by the village zoning
ordinance.
         c.   All employees selling, delivering, checking out or receiving
payment for packaged alcoholic liquor sales shall be at least twenty one (21)
years of age.
         d.   The business must be closed during nonliquor sales hours.
         e.   The sale of drug paraphernalia shall be prohibited from any
establishment holding a liquor license.
      3.   The fee for a class C3 license shall be one thousand two hundred
fifty dollars ($1,250.00).
      4.   A class C3 license holder may apply for the following additional
supplemental licenses: Sampling.
   G.   Class C4:
      1.   A class C4 license authorizes the incidental retail sale of "beer"
or "wine", as defined by the Illinois liquor control act, or other alcoholic
liquor not in excess of twenty five percent (25%) alcohol content in its
original package for consumption off premises only, as part of a gift basket or
other incidental sale.
      2.   A class C4 license shall be subject to the following:
         a.   The interior retail floor space devoted to beer, wine or
alcoholic liquor sales shall be limited to no more than twenty (20) square feet
for a display area from which customers may select a beer, wine or alcoholic
liquor for inclusion in a gift basket.
         b.   All exterior signage shall be regulated by the village zoning
ordinance.
         c.   All employees selling, delivering, checking out or receiving
payment for packaged alcoholic liquor sales shall be at least twenty one (21)
years of age.
         d.   All liquor sales shall be in conjunction with gourmet or
specialty foods as a gift basket or other combined packaging.
         e.   Alcoholic liquor sales must be separately identified on the
register receipt.
         f.   Alcoholic liquor sales shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of
all retail sales in such establishment, exclusive of gasoline sales, during any
twelve (12) consecutive month period.
         g.   The sale of drug paraphernalia shall be prohibited from any
establishment holding a class C4 liquor license.
      3.   The fee for a class C4 license shall be three hundred dollars
($300.00).
      4.   A class C4 license holder is not eligible for supplemental licenses.
   H.   Class D:
      1.   A class D license authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic liquor on
the licensed premises in a regularly organized club. Sales shall be made only
to the members of the club or guests of the club members in the company of the
member or an organization function open to the public.
      2.   The fee for a class D license shall be seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
      3.   A class D license holder may apply for the following additional
supplemental licenses:
         a.   Outdoor seating.
         b.   Special events.
   I.   Class GC: A class GC license authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption only on the premises where sold, and not for resale in
any form, to be issued to a regularly organized golf club, country club or golf
club facility. This license also permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
from a beverage cart or refreshment stand on the grounds of the golf club or
country club or at a patio immediately adjacent to the clubhouse/restaurant.
The fee for a class GC license shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   J.   Class M:
      1.   A class M license authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic beverages,
including beer or wine produced on premises such as a microbrewery, for
consumption on the premises, and retail sales for off premises consumption in
original packaged form only. Such license shall only be issued to such
establishments having a restaurant or meal service where meals are regularly
prepared and served to the public. Alcoholic liquor may be served to the
customers at their tables or dispensed from one or more general service bars.
Live entertainment is permitted in establishments holding a class M license
subject to restrictions set forth in subsection
4-2-26A of this chapter.
      2.   The fee for a class M license shall be one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00).
      3.   A class M license holder may apply for the following additional
supplemental licenses:
         a.   Outdoor seating.
         b.   Extended hours.
         c.   Special events.
   K.   Class X: A class X license does not permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
in any form but allows patrons to provide their own "beer" or "wine", as
defined in the Illinois liquor control act, for consumption on the premises as
a supplement to meals and commonly referred to as "BYOB". A class X license
holder may charge a "corking fee" for the consumption of alcoholic beverages on
the premises. A class X license holder must meet the application requirements
set forth in this chapter. Live entertainment is permitted in establishments
holding a class X license subject to restrictions set forth in subsection
4-2-26A of this chapter, and outdoor seating is permitted without a
supplemental license but is subject to the requirements of this chapter. The
fee for a class X license shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   L.   Supplemental Licenses: Licensees holding a valid primary license may be
eligible to apply for certain supplemental licenses to extend the privileges
provided through the primary licenses. Application for supplemental licenses
shall be made to the liquor control commissioner on the form provided by the
village clerk. In the case of nonrecurring supplemental licenses such as
special events licenses or extended hours licenses, application must be made no
less than thirty (30) days in advance. Additional information may be requested
by the liquor control commissioner to assist in the full review of the
application. The liquor commission shall grant or deny supplemental licenses.
      1.   Packaged Goods: A packaged goods supplemental license allows for the
retail sale of "beer" and "wine" only, as defined in the Illinois liquor
control act, in its original package for consumption off the premises only.
Packaged sales to any one person legally able to purchase alcohol shall be
limited to the equivalent of two (2) 6-packs of containers not exceeding
sixteen (16) fluid ounces in volume each, or two (2) bottles of wine per
purchase. The fee for a package goods license shall be one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00).
      2.   Special Event License:
         a.   A special event license allows a license holder to transfer a
portion of its alcoholic liquor inventory from the licensed premises to an
outside or specified off site location to sell and offer for sale at retail
liquor for use or consumption on the specified premises at village approved
special events. Special event licenses shall only be issued to licensees with a
currently valid class A1, A2, B, D or M license. Except as otherwise expressly
authorized in this chapter, no alcoholic liquor may be sold, served or consumed
at any special event without first obtaining a special event license as
required herein. Any special event license shall be subject to the following:
            (1)   No special event license shall be issued for any event
proposed to be located within one hundred feet (100') or closer to any
residential zone as measured from the boundary line of such zone to the area of
the proposed event.
            (2)   No special event license shall be issued for more than three
(3) consecutive days. No more than three (3) special event licenses shall be
issued to any licensee during any one calendar year.
            (3)   The hours of a special event shall be determined by the
liquor commission at the time of license issuance.
            (4)   Applications for a special event license proposing to occur
off the licensed premises and off site shall be executed by both the liquor
license holder and the owner of the property at which the special event is
proposed to be conducted.
            (5)   The liquor commission may require other conditions and
provisions for the operation of a special event.
            (6)   At a minimum, the following information is to be submitted
regarding the event:
               (A)   Date, time and location of the event;
               (B)   Type of alcohol to be served, which cannot exceed the type
of alcohol a licensee already sells pursuant to its license;
               (C)   Description of the security measures to be utilized for
both liquor service and the event;
               (D)   Description of the area in which alcoholic liquor will be
available for service and consumption;
               (E)   Sales and delivery of alcohol liquor shall be conducted
pursuant to the requirements of this chapter, the Illinois liquor control act
and the Illinois liquor control commission rules and regulations;
               (F)   Description of how access to the site will be controlled
and managed; and
               (G)   Whether food service, music or entertainment will be
provided as part of the special event.
         b.   The fee for a special events liquor license shall be one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00).
      3.   Extended Hours: An extended hours supplemental license allows a
licensed establishment to remain open for one additional and specified hour
beyond the closing hours stipulated in section
4-2-21 of this chapter. The typical purpose of this license would be to allow
the licensee to remain open an additional hour at the commencement of daylight
saving time. No more than three (3) extended hours supplemental licenses shall
be issued to any licensee in any calendar year. The fee for an extended hours
supplemental license shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      4.   Sampling:
         a.   A sampling supplemental license permits class C1 and C3 license
holders to conduct the tasting and sampling of alcoholic liquor, beer or wine
on premises if said tasting or sampling is part of a promotion or sales device
used to encourage the sale of packaged liquor, and no charge of any kind or
character is made for such sample or tasting. No customer, patron or
participant shall be under the age of twenty one (21) or receive more than six
(6) samples of any alcoholic liquor. Sample portions shall not exceed one-
fourth (1/4) ounce for alcoholic spirits or two (2) ounces for beer or wine.
Sample containers shall be disposed of after a single use.
         b.   Sampling supplemental licenses shall permit sampling on a
recurring basis at a frequency of once per week or once per month.
         c.   The fee for a sampling supplemental license shall be as follows:
            (1)   Maximum of one sampling event per week: One hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00).
            (2)   Maximum of one sampling event per month: Three hundred
dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
      5.   Outdoor Seating:
         a.   An outdoor seating supplemental license permits the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor for consumption outside the licensed establishment but
within a designated outdoor area on the premises such as a beer garden, patio
or similar unenclosed area (collectively referred to as an "outdoor seating
area") adjoining and utilized in conjunction with a principal establishment for
which there is currently issued a valid class A1, A2, B, D or M liquor license.
Except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, no alcoholic liquor may be sold,
served or consumed outside of a licensed establishment without first obtaining
a supplemental license as provided herein. Supplemental licenses for outdoor
seating (or updates to site plans permitting outdoor seating) may be approved
by the liquor commissioner, without need for a meeting of the liquor
commission.
         b.   An outdoor seating area shall be subject to the following
regulations:
            (1)   The location and configuration of the outdoor seating area
shall be approved by the liquor commissioner and operated as part of the
premises licensed to sell alcoholic beverages. It shall be subject to all other
regulations and ordinances applicable to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
            (2)   The outdoor seating area shall be completely enclosed by a
fence in a configuration acceptable to the liquor commissioner, which
delineates the boundaries of said area. No alcoholic beverages shall be
permitted to be removed outside the fenced boundaries of the permitted seating
area, under any circumstances. The licensee shall be responsible for installing
appropriate signage (in a configuration acceptable to the liquor commissioner)
denoting applicable regulations.
            (3)   The licensee shall either: a) restrict access to the outdoor
seating area to only persons over the age of twenty one (21) years; or b)
require all persons over the age of twenty one (21) years to wear wristbands
when in the outdoor seating area, to denote that they are eligible to consume
alcoholic beverages.
            (4)   Access to and egress from the outdoor seating area shall be
permitted only through the licensed establishment. Appropriate emergency exits
shall be provided from the fenced enclosure, but shall only be utilized in
emergency circumstances.
            (5)   The licensee shall have staff present in the outdoor seating
area, monitoring its use and ensuring compliance with applicable regulations,
at all times that such area is in use.
            (6)   All trash and debris generated from the outdoor seating area
shall be contained on site and shall not be permitted to blow from or otherwise
leave the outdoor seating area.
            (7)   Lighting fixtures utilized for the outdoor seating area shall
be properly shielded to prevent disturbing adjoining property owners. The
liquor commissioner may establish noise regulations relating to use of the
outdoor seating area, and may change or update those regulations without prior
notice at any point in time prior to or during the term of an outdoor seating
area license.
            (8)   The fee for an outdoor seating area license shall be two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per license year or portion thereof. (Ord.
2013-O-14, 8-19-2013)
   6.   Village Special Event: The president/liquor commissioner shall be
authorized to issue a special events liquor license for the retail sale of
alcoholic beverages, for consumption on the premises, during the conduct of a
special event conducted by the Village of Pingree Grove, or by an entity
approved by the Board to hold a special event on property owned by the village
of Pingree Grove. Such licenses shall be valid for a period of not more than
three (3) consecutive days and may be issued to any entity which currently
holds a valid liquor license issued by any municipality in the State of
Illinois and a valid liquor license issued by the State of Illinois. Such
license shall be subject to such conditions as the president/liquor
commissioner shall require, and shall require such application and background
consideration as the president/liquor commissioner shall require. There shall
be no limit on the number of such licenses which may issue. The president/
liquor commissioner shall be authorized to execute a special events license
agreement providing for hours of operation, indemnification, insurance
provisions and any other matters relating to the retail sale of alcoholic
beverages. The fee associated with the issuance of a special events liquor
license shall be one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00). Such licenses shall
not require a hearing before the liquor commission or any further approval in
order to be valid.
(Ord. 2015-O-21, 7-20-2015; amd. Ord. 2025-O-01, 2-18-2025)
4-2-10-2: DAILY PERMIT:
The local liquor control commission may grant a daily permit to any not for
profit organization or club, such as a church, order or lodge, veterans'
organization or other civic organization or business in good standing. A daily
permit shall be valid for one day only, and the commission reserves the right
to limit the sale of liquor to particular times during the day of the permit.
Permits shall be issued in accordance with the following standards:
   A.   No more than four (4) such daily permits shall be issued to any one
such organization, club or business during the period of one year. A daily
permit shall not be issued for any more than four (4) consecutive days.
   B.   Any organization that does not have a valid liquor license shall pay a
permit fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day. Permit fees shall be paid
at the time the daily permit is issued.
   C.   The following information shall be submitted regarding the event:
      1.   Date, time and location of the event;
      2.   Type of alcohol to be served;
      3.   Description of the security measures to be utilized for both liquor
service and the event;
      4.   Description of the area in which alcoholic liquor will be available
for service and consumption;
      5.   Sales and delivery of alcoholic liquor shall be conducted pursuant
to the requirements of this chapter, the Illinois liquor control act and the
Illinois liquor control commission rules and regulations; and
      6.   As a condition of the application, the applicant shall agree to
indemnify the village from any liability or harm that may result through the
issuance of a liquor license or the exercise of a liquor license once it is
obtained. In addition, the applicant shall agree to allow the village
unrestricted access to the premises for compliance check and enforcement
purposes. The applicant will execute an agreement specifying the same.
   D.   Unless specifically provided otherwise, all requirements of this
chapter shall apply to permits granted under this section including insurance
requirements in section
4-2-6 of this chapter. To the extent that any such event may take place on
public property, the applicant shall name the village as an additional insured
and provide the village with the appropriate insurance endorsement.
   E.   Application for a daily permit must be submitted a minimum of thirty
(30) days in advance of the event. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-11: PAYMENT AND DISPOSITION OF FEES:
   A.   All license fees shall be paid to the commissioner at the time the
application is made and shall be forthwith turned over to the finance director.
   B.   If the license applied for is denied, the license fee shall be returned
to the applicant. If the license is granted, the fee shall be deposited in the
general corporate fund or in such other fund as designated by the village
board. License fees are separate and apart from the application fee required
pursuant to subsection
4-2-5C of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-12: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
There shall be issued in the village not more than the following number of
licenses:
Class Of License Number Of Licenses
Class Of License      Number Of Licenses
Class A1              5
Class A2              0
Class B               3
Class C1              0
Class C2              2
Class C3              0
Class C4              0
Class D               0
Class GC              0
Class M               0
Class X               0
Supplemental licenses At the discretion of the liquor control commission
 
(Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2010-17, 9-7-2010; Ord. 2013-O-08, 5-20-
2013; Ord. 2014-O-03, 2-2-2014; Ord. 2015-O-08, 3-16-2015; Ord. 2015-O-10, 4-6-
2015; Ord. 2018-O-26, 12-3-2018; Ord. 2020-O-14, 5-18-2020; Ord. 2020-O-28, 9-
8-2020; Ord. 2021-O-04, 4-19-2021; Ord. 2021-O-12, 9-7- 2021; Ord. 2022-O-16,
5-2-2022; oRD. 2023-O-03, 4-3-2023; Ord. 2023-O-17, 9-18-2023)
4-2-13: TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; FEES PRORATED:
A license is purely a personal privilege and, except for daily permits, shall
expire one year from the date of issuance. The one year period shall be from
May 1 of each year to April 30 of each following year, unless sooner revoked or
suspended. Licenses issued after May 1 of any year shall pay the full license
fee as provided herein. All licenses, regardless of the date of issuance, shall
terminate on April 30 of each year following the date of issuance. (Ord. 2009-
34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-14: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Any licensee may renew his liquor license at the expiration thereof; provided,
that he is then qualified to receive a license, and the premises for which such
renewal license is sought is suitable for such purpose; provided further, that
the renewal privilege herein shall not be construed as a vested right which
shall in any case prevent the reduction of the number of licenses to be issued
within the village. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-15: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every licensee shall cause his license or licenses to be framed and hung in
plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-
5-2009)
4-2-16: DECEASED, INSOLVENT, BANKRUPT LICENSEE:
   A.   A liquor license shall cease upon the death of the licensee and shall
not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution; provided, that the
executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture
of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the
privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee, until the
expiration of such license, but not longer than six (6) months after the death,
bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
   B.   A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fee paid for any
period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under the
license in accordance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-
2009)
4-2-17: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A liquor license shall be a purely personal privilege, not to exceed one year
after issuance unless revoked sooner, and shall not constitute property, nor
shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be
alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-18: ABANDONMENT OF PREMISES:
If the licensee to which a license has been issued discontinues operations at
the premises described in the application and license for ninety (90)
consecutive days, or whenever the liquor control commissioner determines there
is intent of the licensee to abandon the premises, said license shall be
subject to revocation. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-19: LOCATION:
   A.   Restrictions: No liquor license shall be issued for the sale at retail
of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school,
hospital, undertaking establishment or mortuary, home for the aged or indigent
persons or for veterans, their spouses or children, any military or naval
station, or any location prohibited by applicable state law.
   B.   Change Of Location: A liquor license shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor only in the premises described in the application and license. Such
location may be changed only upon the receipt of written permission from the
commissioner. No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is in compliance with provisions and regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-20: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
A. Sanitary Conditions: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor, or for the storage of such liquor for sale, shall be kept in full
compliance with the laws and ordinances regulating the condition of premises
used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption 1 .
   B.   Access To Dwellings/Lodging: Except in the case of hotels, bed and
breakfasts and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at retail upon any
premises which has any access which leads from such premises to any other
portion of the same building or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes
and which is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use by the public.
This subsection shall not prohibit any connection between such premises and
such other portion of the building or structure which is used only by the
licensee, his family and personal guests.
   C.   Consumption On Premises Or Outside Of Licensed Establishment: It shall
be unlawful for anyone having a class C1, C2, C3 or C4 license (those classes
for consumption off premises only) and without a supplemental license
permitting otherwise to sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold, or to permit the same to be consumed on
the premises where sold. It shall be unlawful for anyone having a class A1, A2,
B, D, M or X license (those classes for consumption on premises) and without a
supplemental license permitting otherwise to sell or offer for sale any
alcoholic liquor for consumption outside of the licensed establishment or to
permit the same to be consumed outside of the licensed establishment or off
premises where sold.
   D.   View From Street: In premises in which the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises is licensed, other than restaurants, hotels or
clubs, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be
permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises not inside
such premises which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such
licensed premises from the street, road, or sidewalk at all times, and no
booth, screen, partition, or other obstruction nor any arrangements of lights
or lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which
shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such premises, and the
entire space used by the public must be so located that there shall be a full
view of the same from the street, road or sidewalk. All rooms where alcoholic
liquor is sold for consumption on the premises shall be continually lighted
during business hours by natural or artificial white light so that all parts of
the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible. In case the view into
any such licensed premises required by this subsection shall be wilfully
obscured by the licensee or by him wilfully suffered to be obscured or
obstructed, such license may be revoked in the manner herein provided. In order
to enforce the provisions of this subsection, the local liquor control
commissioner shall have the right to require the filing with him of plans,
drawings and photographs showing the clearance of the view as required in this
subsection. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5, chapter 7 of this code.
4-2-21: CLOSING HOURS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail, or to give
away, in or upon any licensed premises, any alcoholic liquor:
Between the hours of one minute after one o'clock (1:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Monday through Friday; and
Between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
Saturday; and
Between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on
Sunday.
   B.   On the eve of New Year's Day, Memorial Day (observed), Independence Day
(4th Of July), Labor Day and Thanksgiving Day, it shall be lawful to sell
alcoholic liquor in the village until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. in licensed
premises.
   C.   The hours stated herein shall be Central Standard Time, and when
daylight saving time is in effect, said hours shall be Central Daylight Saving
Time.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business, to admit the public to,
to permit the public to remain within, or to permit the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in or upon any premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is
sold at retail during the hours within which the sale of such liquor is
prohibited; provided, that such establishments may be kept open but no
alcoholic liquor may be sold to or consumed by the public during the hours
prohibited. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-22: EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Persons Under Twenty One: It shall be unlawful for a licensee to permit
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to dispense, draw, pour or
mix any alcoholic liquor, or in any way tend bar. This shall not prevent
persons eighteen (18) years of age and over, as employees, from delivering
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises.
   B.   Health Requirements: It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises
used for retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with or
who is a carrier of any contagious, infectious or venereal disease; and it
shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or is a carrier of any
such disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the
handling, preparing or distributing of such liquor. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-23: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
   A.   Purchase, Acceptance, Consumption Or Possession Of Liquor:
      1.   Prohibitions: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
under the age of twenty one (21) to purchase, obtain, accept delivery of,
accept a gift of, consume, or have in his or her possession alcoholic liquor.
      2.   Warning Placard: In every place in the village where alcoholic
liquor is sold, there shall be displayed at all times, in a prominent place, a
printed card, which shall be supplied by the clerk, and which shall read
substantially as follows:
Warning to Persons Under 21 Years of Age
You are subject to a fine up to Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) under the
Liquor Control Ordinance of the Village of Pingree Grove if you purchase
alcoholic liquor, or misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic liquor.
      3.   Exemptions: The possession and dispensing or consumption of
alcoholic liquor by a person under twenty one (21) years of age where expressly
permitted by applicable state law.
   B.   Sales:
      1.   Sale By Licensee: It shall be a violation of this chapter for the
licensee, or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee
of such licensee, to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years.
      2.   Sale By Other Persons: It shall be a violation of this chapter for
any person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, to sell,
give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of twenty
one (21) years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
      3.   Proof Of Identity And Age: To prevent the violation of this chapter,
any licensee, or his officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee, may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic beverages to any person who is
unable to produce adequate written evidence of identity and of the fact that he
or she is over the age of twenty one (21) years. Adequate written evidence of
age and identity of the person is a document issued by a federal, state, county
or municipal government, or subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not
limited to, a motor vehicle operator's license, a registration certificate
issued under the federal selective service act or an identification card issued
to a member of the armed forces.
   C.   False Identification:
      1.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell, give
or furnish to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years any false or
fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence of the age and/or identity
of such person or to sell, give or furnish to any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years evidence of age and/or identification of any other
person.
      2.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person under the age
of twenty one (21) to present or offer to any licensee, his agent or employee,
any written, printed or photostatic evidence of age and/or identity which is
false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering,
purchasing, attempting to purchase or otherwise procuring or attempting to
procure the serving of any alcoholic beverage, or who has in his or her
possession any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence of
age and/or identity.
      3.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person under the age
of twenty one (21) to order, purchase, attempt to purchase or otherwise procure
or attempt to procure any alcoholic beverage.
   D.   Gatherings Where Persons Under Twenty One Are Present:
      1.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to knowingly
permit a gathering at a residence which she/he occupies of two (2) or more
persons where any one or more of the persons is under twenty one (21) years of
age, and the following factors also apply:
         a.   The person occupying the residence knows that the person or
persons under the age of twenty one (21) are in possession of or are consuming
an alcoholic beverage; and
         b.   The possession or consumption of the alcohol by the person under
twenty one (21) is not otherwise permitted by this chapter; and
         c.   The person occupying the residence knows that the person under
the age of twenty one (21) leaves the residence under the influence of alcohol.
      2.   For the purposes of this chapter, where the residence has an owner
and a tenant or lessee, there is a rebuttable presumption that the residence is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-24: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED; CONDUCT ON PREMISES:
   A.   No licensee, or any officer, associate, member, representative or agent
or employee of the licensee, shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any intoxicated person or to any person known by him or her to be a habitual
drunkard, spendthrift, insane, feeble minded or distracted, mentally ill,
mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment.
   B.   No licensee, or agent or employee of the licensee, shall harbor or
permit any intoxicated persons to loiter on the premises described in the
license or permit any conduct which shall tend to disturb the peace or quiet of
the neighborhood or the premises. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-25: ADULT ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESSES:
   A.   Adult Activities Prohibited On Licensed Premises: It shall be unlawful
for any person maintaining, owning or operating a commercial establishment
located within the village at which alcoholic beverages are offered for sale
for consumption on the premises to permit or allow the following activities to
be conducted on the premises of such a commercial establishment: adult
businesses, nudity, pandering, obscene activity, rap parlor, sadomasochistic
activity, or sexual conduct activity.
   B.   Beer, Liquor Sales In Adult Businesses Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any establishment defined as an "adult business" to sell, distribute or
permit beer or alcoholic beverages on the premises. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-26: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Sound Amplification: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit or
allow any noise or sound to be amplified outside the bounds of a structure on
the premises if a residence is within five hundred feet (500') of the premises.
   B.   Consumption On Public Ways: No person shall openly drink or furnish to
others any alcoholic liquor to be consumed upon any street, public place or
vacant lot within the village, and no person shall connive at or assist in or
procure others to violate any provision of this chapter except during the
pendency of a lawfully permitted block party (as permitted under title 8,
chapter 4 of this code) during which a village street is permitted to be closed
for such gathering. In such instances, consumption on public streets shall be
limited to pedestrians not operating any vehicle, bicycle or other machinery or
equipment and not violating any other applicable law or regulation including
those related to disorderly conduct or public intoxication.
   C.   Peddling Liquor: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-27: MANDATORY MEETING; LIST OF OWNERS, MANAGERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Mandatory Licensee Meeting: All liquor license holders or their
representatives shall be required to attend a mandatory meeting hosted by the
commissioner in March of each year to discuss changes in this chapter,
identify/address issues and concerns and provide for open communication between
the licensees and the commissioner. The village will provide notice of the
date, time and location for this meeting no less than fourteen (14) days in
advance. Failure to attend the mandatory meeting could result in the revocation
of the renewal privileges upon the expiration of the liquor license.
   B.   Listing Of Owners, Managers And Employees: All licensees shall, by May
1 of each year, submit to the village police department a listing of all owners
and managers of the licensed premises, as well as a list of any and all
employees who prepare, dispense, sell or serve alcoholic beverages at the
licensed premises. The listing shall include the names, home addresses and
dates of birth and shall indicate whether they have received BASSET training.
The licensee shall have ten (10) days in which to update this listing with new
managers or employees once they have been hired. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-28: RECORDS KEPT:
   A.   Village Records: The village clerk shall keep a complete record of all
licenses issued, and shall furnish the commissioner, finance director and chief
of police each with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any new license, or
the suspension or revocation of any old license, the commissioner shall give
written notice of such action to each of these officers. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-
2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Licensee Records: It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to make
books and records available upon reasonable notice for the purpose of
investigation and control by the Illinois liquor control commission or any
commissioner having jurisdiction over the licensee. Such books and records need
not be maintained on the licensed premises, but must be maintained in the state
of Illinois. However, all original invoices covering purchases of alcoholic
liquor must be retained on the licensed premises for a period of ninety (90)
days after such purchase. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-29: BASSET TRAINING:
   A.   For purposes of this section, "BASSET" is defined as the state
certified beverage alcohol sellers and servers education and training program
licensed by the state of Illinois liquor control commission, as required by 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-12 (11.1) and 5/6-27 and title 77 of the
Illinois administrative code, chapter XVI, section 3500.
   B.   All original or renewal applications for a liquor license shall be
accompanied with proof of completion of a state certified BASSET program
conducted in a live, in person setting (not online) for all persons required
pursuant to subsection
4-2-5B10 of this chapter and as may be further required by subsection F of this
section who sell or serve alcoholic beverages, all management personnel working
on the premises and anyone whose job description entails checking
identification for the purchase of alcoholic beverages pursuant to that
license.
   C.   All licensed BASSET providers shall be required to have on file all
licenses and certificates to prove current qualifications and provide a
certificate of course completion and a card (a picture type identification is
optional) to participants as proof of completion.
   D.   At least one person who has completed the BASSET program shall be
required to be on the licensed premises during hours when alcoholic beverages
may be purchased.
   E.   Any new owner, manager, employee or agent requiring completion of the
BASSET program shall, until completion of the BASSET program which is to occur
within ninety (90) days, work under the supervision of a person who has
successfully completed the BASSET program.
   F.   In the event a licensed premises is found to be in violation of any
provision of this chapter, the liquor control act of 1934 1  or any applicable
state law, the commission, within their sole discretion, may require all
persons who sell or serve alcoholic liquor and/or all management personnel
working in a licensed premises and/or anyone whose job description entails the
checking of identification for the purchase of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the
license to reapply, attend and successfully complete a BASSET program. (Ord.
2009-34, 10-5-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
4-2-30: INSPECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Entry Powers:
      1.   Any law enforcing officer of the village may enter at any time upon
any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of
this chapter or whether any of the rules or regulations adopted by the
president and board of trustees or by the state of Illinois have been or are
being violated and at such time may examine the premises of the licensee in
connection therewith.
      2.   It shall be a violation of this chapter to refuse to grant
admittance to the premises for which a license has been issued at any time upon
the verbal request of any police officer or any other legally authorized
person.
   B.   Complaints: Any law enforcing officer of the village may receive
complaint from any citizen within the jurisdiction of the village that any of
the provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by the
president and board of trustees or by the state of Illinois have been or are
being violated, and may act upon such complaints in the manner provided.
   C.   Rules And Regulations Of Procedure: The commissioner shall have the
authority to make and establish rules and regulations of procedure concerning
notice of hearings and all such other matters as may from time to time be
necessary, and to appoint deputy commissioners to the liquor commission.
   D.   Compliance Checks: Investigations commonly referred to as a "compliance
check" may be conducted at any time by the village police department and in
accordance with village police department procedures. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-31: LICENSE REVOCATION AUTHORIZED:
   A.   No person holding a village license shall, in the conduct of the
licensed business or upon the licensed premises, either directly or through the
agents or employees of the licensee:
      1.   Violate or permit a violation of any federal law or state statute
related to the control of liquor.
      2.   Violate or permit a violation of any village ordinance or resolution
regulating the sale of alcoholic liquor or relating to the eligibility of the
licensee to hold a liquor license.
      3.   Violate or permit a violation of any rule or regulation of the
Illinois liquor control commission as amended from time to time.
      4.   Permit the sale and/or consumption of any alcoholic beverages
outdoors absent a specific permit issued by the village.
      5.   Allow fighting, disorderly conduct or excessive noise constituting a
nuisance to take place on the licensed premises or on, about and/or adjacent to
the property where the licensed premises is located.
      6.   Allow patrons to serve or distribute alcoholic beverages to minors
on the licensed premises or allow minors to drink alcoholic beverages on the
licensed premises.
      7.   Fail to call the village police department upon the violation of any
village ordinance or state law relating to fighting, disorderly conduct or
excessive noise constituting a nuisance on the licensed premises.
      8.   Submit to the village a liquor license application containing a
false or misleading statement.
   B.   Proof before the commissioner of the facts which establish a violation
of any federal law, state statute, village ordinance or resolution or rule of
the Illinois liquor control commission shall be sufficient cause for
revocation, suspension and fine of any liquor licensee, irrespective of whether
or not a conviction has been obtained in any court. In addition, the licensee
shall be obligated to reimburse the village for all attorney fees and related
costs incurred as a result of the prosecution of the offending licensee.
   C.   All appeals from the decision of the commissioner shall be limited to a
review of the official record of proceedings. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-32: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR FINE:
   A.   Revocation: Licenses granted hereunder may be revoked by the President,
acting as liquor commissioner for the violation of any part or portion of this
chapter, or of the liquor control act, or of any valid resolution or ordinance
enacted by the village, or of any applicable rule or regulation established by
the commissioner, or any violation of the criminal code which occurs on the
licensed premises or any violation of the criminal code which occurs off the
licensed premises where said violation involves or relates to the sale or
consumption of alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises. Licenses granted
hereunder may be revoked upon the conviction of the licensee under the criminal
code. Should any applicant for license make a false or fraudulent statement in
such application, the same shall be cause for revocation by the commissioner of
such license.
   B.   Suspension: Licenses granted hereunder may be suspended by the
President, acting as liquor commissioner, for a period not exceeding ninety
(90) days for the violation of any part or portion of this chapter, or of the
liquor control act, or of any valid resolution or ordinance enacted by the
village, or of any applicable rule or regulation established by the
commissioner or by the state liquor control commission, or any violation of the
criminal code which occurs on the licensed premises or any violation of the
criminal code which occurs off the licensed premises where said violation
involves or relates to the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
licensed premises. During such period of suspension, no alcoholic liquor shall
be sold on said licensed premises.
   C.   Emergency Suspensions: In the event of any violation of Village code or
applicable state or federal law which presents an imminent threat to public
safety, the President acting as liquor commissioner, the Chief of Police, or
either of their designees may impose an emergency suspension of liquor
licensure for a period not longer than ten (10) business days (with business
days being defined as days that the Village's administrative offices are open
for normal operations). Such suspension shall be effective by providing the
licensee with written notification of an emergency suspension, and the date and
time during which such suspension shall be in effect. It shall be unlawful to
engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages during any such period of emergency
suspension. The Village shall convene an emergency hearing within that ten-
business day period to determine whether a nonemergency suspension should be
implemented. Such emergency hearing shall be conducted by the Liquor
Commissioner, Chief of Police or their designee, and shall be conducted for the
sole purpose of determining whether the emergency suspension should be extended
for a period not exceeding thirty (30) calendar days, for the conduct of
hearings under subsection (D) of this Section.
   D.   Non-Emergency Suspension or Revocation: In the event that the Village
determines that the non-emergency suspension or revocation of a liquor license
is appropriate, the Village shall utilize the procedures outlined in this
subsection to conduct a hearing to evaluate the same.
      1.   The hearing may be conducted by the President as Liquor
Commissioner, a designee thereof, or a licensed administrative hearing officer.
      2.   The hearing shall be conducted during the Village's normal business
hours, and the licensee shall be provided not less than two (2) business days'
written notice of the date and time of the hearing, mailed to the licensed
premises as indicated on the liquor license application.
      3.   The Licensee shall at all times be afforded due process including
the right to subpoena witnesses in his own behalf, the right to hear witnesses
and evidence given against him, the right to counsel, the right to cross-
examination, and the right to demand a written specification of charges against
him in advance of the hearing. Police reports or other official documentation
of the Village shall be admissible in such a proceeding, without regard to any
hearsay evidence limitations.
      4.   Witnesses shall be sworn, but in all other respects the hearings
shall be informal and strict rules of evidence shall not apply.
      5.   A certified court reporter shall, at the public hearing take the
complete record of all evidence, testimony and comments and, upon notification
by the Liquor Commissioner, shall prepare a certified official record of the
proceedings suitable for filing with the State Liquor Control Commission and
that all reviews of the proceedings of the Village be recorded so that the
State Commission's scope of review is based upon the verbatim transcript. The
cost of taking and preparing the certified official record of the proceeding
shall be paid by the Licensee, with payment of the cost to be made to the City
at or before the time the Order of the Liquor Commissioner becomes effective,
provided, however, if the Order action or decision of the Liquor Commissioner
is reversed by the State Commission or a court of law, any such payment made by
the Licensee shall be returned.
      6.   In the event that the hearing contemplated herein is conducted by a
hearing officer, the hearing officer shall prepare a report of findings and
submit the same to the Liquor Commissioner (with a copy to the licensee); the
Liquor Commissioner shall thereafter make a final determination.
   E.   Fine: In addition to revocation or suspension of the liquor license by
the President, acting as liquor commissioner, the liquor commissioner may fine
any licensee up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), plus the village cost of
prosecution, hearing officers and court reporters, and also including
reasonable attorney fees, for each violation of any part or portion of this
chapter, or of the liquor control act, or of any valid resolution or ordinance
enacted by the village, or of any applicable rule or regulation established by
the commissioner or by the state liquor control commission, or any violation of
the criminal code which occurs on the licensed premises or any violation of the
criminal code which occurs off the licensed premises where said violation
involves or relates to the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
licensed premises. If a fine is imposed in addition to a suspension, the period
of suspension shall not start to run until the fine is paid in full (along with
all costs as outlined above).
   F.   Agreed Resolution: In cases where: 1) the Liquor Commissioner and the
Licensee agree and stipulate to the facts of a given violation, and agree that
a violation has occurred; 2) the Liquor Commissioner and the Licensee agree
that use of the Agreed Violation Process is appropriate, and are willing to
execute a stipulation, settlement and waiver agreement so-indicating; 3) the
violation(s) in question are not severe, and do not evidence a pattern of
repeat violations by a Licensee; and 4) the Licensee is willing to accept the
penalties recommended by the Liquor Commissioner and waive the right to a
hearing, to avoid the cost and expense thereof, the Liquor Commissioner and
Licensee may elect to utilize a written agreement to resolve a proposed
violation. Such agreement shall waive the Licensee's right to a hearing and
shall impose a mutually acceptable fine and/or suspension or revocation of a
license, and such other terms as the liquor Commissioner and Licensee shall
agree upon. Either party shall be free to reject the Agreed Violation Process
and proceed to a formal hearing. The period of time when the parties are
investigating the potential use of the Agreed Violation Process shall toll any
Liquor Commissioner timelines for initiating a hearing or filing charges
against the Licensee. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2020-O- 03, 1-20-
2020)
4-2-33: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, corporation or other legally recognized entity who violates
any provision of this chapter, for which a specific penalty is not stated,
shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per offense, and
be responsible for the village cost of prosecution, including reasonable
attorney fees, for each offense or the revocation of his or her liquor license,
or to both such fine and revocation of such license. Each day that a violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 2009-34, 10-5-2009)
4-2-34: STATE AUTHORIZED ELECTRONIC OR VIDEO GAMING PERMITTED WITH LICENSE:
   A.   The holder of a village issued, current and valid liquor license which
is eligible for the use of a video gaming terminal as described in the video
gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq. (hereafter, “the video
gaming act”), may utilize video gaming terminals (as defined in the video
gaming act) within the licensed premises after obtaining a village video gaming
license and acquiring any required county or state licensure, provided that all
such video gaming terminals are used in compliance with all terms of this
section.
      1.   Any person seeking to utilize one or more video gaming terminals
within a licensed premises shall only be permitted to do so in strict
accordance with all provisions of the Illinois video gaming act.
      2.   Prior to installation or use of any video gaming terminal, any
licensed liquor establishment seeking to utilize such devices shall first
obtain a license from the state of Illinois gaming board. After obtaining such
license, the applicant shall submit to the village: a) a copy of the state
issued license; b) an application for a village of Pingree Grove video gaming
license, on a form approved by the village of Pingree Grove liquor
commissioner; c) the village of Pingree Grove video gaming license application
fee, as outlined below; d) a drawing or depiction of the location within the
licensed premises where the video gaming terminals are proposed to be
installed; and e) such other information as the liquor commissioner shall
require. Any application for renewal of a village of Pingree Grove video gaming
terminal shall also include all of the foregoing items, except that the village
of Pingree Grove video gaming license renewal fee shall be substituted for the
application fee.
      3.   If approved, the term of a village of Pingree Grove video gaming
license shall be coterminous with the village of Pingree Grove liquor license
for the licensed premises. All renewal applications for village of Pingree
Grove video gaming licenses shall be required to be submitted at the same time
as renewal applications for a village of Pingree Grove liquor license for the
licensed premises.
      4.   The initial application fee for a village of Pingree Grove video
gaming license shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per proposed video
gaming terminal. The annual renewal fee for a village of Pingree Grove video
gaming license shall also be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per proposed
video gaming terminal, per year.
      5.   Village of Pingree Grove video gaming licenses shall be treated as a
supplemental license to the licensed premises’ liquor license and,
notwithstanding limitations on supplemental licensure contained above, shall be
available to any licensed establishment that is: a) eligible for video gaming
under state law; and b) approved by the village board for such supplemental
license. Any violation of the video gaming act or any violation of any
provision of this chapter shall constitute a violation of the terms and
conditions of both the video gaming license and the establishment’s liquor
license. Any suspension, revocation, termination or other disciplinary
proceeding applicable to a licensed premises’ liquor license shall be
applicable to its video gaming license, and any proceeding applicable to the
video gaming license shall be applicable to the liquor license. A suspension,
revocation or termination of either license shall automatically result in the
suspension, revocation or termination of the other license. Any disciplinary
proceeding relating to a video gaming license shall utilize the same procedures
as a disciplinary proceeding relating to a liquor license, as outlined in this
chapter.
      6.   Any video gaming terminal utilized in a licensed premises shall be
installed in a fixed location described in the license application, acceptable
to the liquor commissioner, from which the video gaming terminal is visible to
staff of the licensed premises at all times.
      7.   All installations of video gaming terminals are subject to any
applicable building code or regulatory requirements, codes and ordinances.
      8.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to operate, play or utilize a video gaming terminal. It shall be unlawful
for any person, place or licensed establishment to permit or allow any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years of age to operate, play or utilize a
video gaming terminal.
      9.   Any violation of this section shall be an ordinance violation,
punishable by a fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per
occurrence. In addition, any violation may be pursued as a violation of a
licensed premises’ liquor license or village of Pingree Grove video gaming
license, with fines and costs assessed pursuant to the established process
therefor.
      10.   Any video gaming terminal properly licensed by the village of
Pingree Grove and state of Illinois shall be permitted to operate within a
licensed premises in accordance with applicable state regulations and this
section, and such licensed video gaming terminal shall not constitute a
violation of any other village code or ordinance prohibiting gambling or
gaming. Specifically, the provisions of this section shall, for licensed video
gaming terminals, supersede the provisions of chapter 3, article D of this
title, or any other village code or ordinance prohibiting gambling, provided
that all activities are conducted in strict compliance with this section and
the video gaming act.
      11.   Any village issued license for video gaming terminals shall be
considered to be provisional in nature and shall be conditioned upon the
applicant’s receipt of a required state license for the terminals. The village
reserves the right to issue licenses that do not make a determination about
applicant eligibility for a video gaming terminal license, and to rely upon the
determination of the Illinois gaming board as to said eligibility. (Ord. 2016-
O-07, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 2012-18, 8-6-2012; Ord. 2022-O-02, 1-4-2022)
4-2-35: LIQUOR CATERER LICENSE:
   A.   Eligibility: Any party holding a present village of Pingree Grove
liquor license for a licensed premises within the corporate limits of the
village shall be eligible to apply for permission to serve as a liquor caterer.
There shall be no additional fee for such licensure, and any licensee who seeks
such permission shall be, after approval, entitled to operate within the
conditions described in subsection D of this section. Application shall be on a
form prescribed by the village clerk, and shall require approval of the village
president with the recommendation of the chief of police.
   B.   Application; Fee; Investigation: Any party holding a valid state of
Illinois liquor license and a liquor license issued by an Illinois municipal
entity (city, town, village, county or similar entity) but not presently
holding a village of Pingree Grove liquor license for a licensed premises
within the village shall be authorized to apply for a liquor caterer's license.
Application shall be on a form prescribed by the village clerk, and shall
require approval of the village president with the recommendation of the chief
of police.
      1.   There shall be a nonrefundable application fee of zero dollars
($0.00) applicable to initial license applications, and an annual licensure
renewal fee of zero dollars ($0.00).
      2.   At the discretion of the chief of police, the applicant may be
required to undergo such background investigation, fingerprinting, criminal
history check and related inquiry as the chief shall determine to be
appropriate, as a condition of consideration of licensure. The chief may also
elect to undertake discussion with the municipal entity presently licensing the
applicant and, based upon the nature of that discussion, may elect to waive the
requirement of a separate background investigation.
      3.   The chief of police shall present a recommendation to the village
president for consideration of approval. The president may either approve such
recommendation, or refer the request to the liquor commission and village board
for consideration and approval.
      4.   Upon approval, the licensee shall operate in accordance with the
requirements of subsection D of this section.
   C.   Term Of License: The term of any liquor caterer license issued
hereunder shall be coterminate with the term of all other village liquor
licenses.
   D.   Conduct Of Licensed Caterer Events:
      1.   The licensee shall submit a written request for approval of a
licensed caterer event to the village a reasonable time before the date of such
event. Said application shall be on a form prescribed by the village clerk. The
application shall be accompanied by the following items:
         a.   A floor plan showing the layout of the proposed event (including
indoor or outdoor seating areas, fencing and access controls, proposed tents or
temporary structures, and similar matters).
         b.   A letter from the property owner and a letter from the party
conducting the event (if different from the property owner) consenting to the
conduct of the event.
         c.   A copy of a certificate of insurance evidencing compliance with
section
4-2-6 of this chapter relative to the proposed location of the event.
         d.   A description of the security plan for the event, including the
number of trained liquor staff to be provided and the liquor access controls
imposed.
         e.   The date, hours and location of the event, and the hours during
which alcohol will be served (if different from hours of the event).
         f.   A description of the means of service of alcohol (open bar, tab
bar, cash bar, other).
         g.   A written consent to the village police department entering the
event at any time during its conduct, for the purpose of confirming compliance
with the terms of the permit, village liquor code and applicable state
regulations.
         h.   Such other information as the chief of police shall require.
      2.   For events conducted by or on behalf of a nonprofit, governmental or
charitable organization, there shall be no fee. For all other events, there
shall be a fee of zero dollars ($0.00) per application.
      3.   A single application and permit may cover an event lasting not
longer than three (3) consecutive days.
      4.   Approval of a permit shall be required for the conduct of the event.
Approval or rejection of the permit shall be provided by the chief of police.
In the event that the chief of police rejects a permit, the applicant shall
have the ability to appeal the rejection to the village liquor commission. The
chief of police may condition approval of the permit on such conditions as the
chief shall determine to be appropriate (e.g., approval of a third party,
obtaining any required temporary utility or tent permits, etc.).
      5.   The applicant shall keep a copy of the approved permit at the
licensed event during all times of alcohol sales.
      6.   During the hours of alcoholic beverage sales at the event, the
village police department shall be authorized to enter the premises of the
event without notice, for the purpose of inspecting the event and/or
determining compliance with applicable regulations. Should any sworn member of
the police department determine that the event is unlawful or presents a public
safety hazard, such member shall be authorized to issue an emergency verbal
revocation of the event permit. In such event, liquor sales shall terminate
immediately and the event permit shall be forfeited.
      7.   Licensed events shall be permitted to have the sale of alcoholic
beverages, in open containers, for consumption on the premises only. No sale of
package beverages for consumption off premises shall be permitted. Licensees
shall collect and pay all applicable taxes and charges related to such sales
occurring within the village of Pingree Grove. (Ord. 2016-O-18, 6-6-2016)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Application Of Provisions
4-3-2: Licensing Requirements Generally
4-3-3: Street Shows
4-3-4: Athletic Exhibitions
4-3-5: Conduct Of Audiences
4-3-6: Promoting Riots Or Disturbances Prohibited
4-3-7: Building And Premises Requirements
4-3-8: Penalty
4-3-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all public shows, theatricals,
circuses, and other amusements in the village, whether specifically licensed in
another section in this title or not. (1990 Code §12.301)
4-3-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement
which is open to the public and for admittance to which a fee is charged
without having first obtained a license therefor; provided, that the provisions
of this section shall not be held to apply to those amusements which are
specifically licensed by any other ordinance of the village.
   B.   Application For License: Application for such license shall be made to
the village clerk and shall comply with all of the general provisions of the
ordinances relating to such application. (1990 Code §12.302)
4-3-3: STREET SHOWS:
No license shall be granted or given for any exhibition, show, or other
amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk, or in such place that
the only main accommodation for the public or the audience will be a public
place, except on order of the president and board of trustees. (1990 Code
§12.303; amd. 2011 Code)
4-3-4: ATHLETIC EXHIBITIONS:
   A.   License Required; Waivers: It is unlawful to conduct, operate, or
exhibit any race between persons, animals, or vehicles, or any baseball game,
boxing or wrestling matches or any other athletic contest or exhibition for
admission to which a fee is charged without having first procured a license
therefor. The board of trustees shall have the power to waive any such license
and fee charges for not for profit charitable organizations.
   B.   Gross Receipts; License Fee: The operator of such exhibition shall
submit to the village clerk a statement, verified under oath, of the gross
receipts of each such game, contest, or race within one week after such
exhibition. At the same time, the proprietor or person exhibiting or operating
such exhibition shall pay to the village clerk a sum equal to three percent
(3%) of the gross receipts. (1990 Code §12.304)
4-3-5: CONDUCT OF AUDIENCES:
   A.   The audience of any amusement show or theatrical must be orderly and
quiet at all times, and it is unlawful for any person attending such amusement,
show, or theatrical to create a disturbance in the audience.
   B.   It is unlawful to permit or gather such a crowd to witness any
amusement or show as to create a dangerous condition because of fire or other
risks. (1990 Code §12.305)
4-3-6: PROMOTING RIOTS OR DISTURBANCES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to present any public amusement or show of any kind which tends
to or is calculated to cause or promote any riot or disturbance. (1990 Code
§12.306)
4-3-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance With Building Regulations: It is unlawful to operate or
permit the operation of any amusement licensed in this chapter unless the
premises in which such amusement is operated or permitted to be operated
conforms with all the provisions or requirements in this code and the county
code relating to public buildings and public gatherings. (1990 Code §12.308)
   B.   Exit Lights Required In Assembly Halls: It shall be the duty of the
owner or occupant in charge of any building or hall used as an assembly hall
with accommodations for one hundred (100) persons or more in which theatricals,
shows, amusements, lectures, and other entertainment is offered, operated or
presented, to provide and place a sign on which the word "EXIT" shall appear in
letters, at least six inches (6") high, over every door or other opening from
such hall to every means of egress therefrom, and a light shall be provided
with a red globe and placed at or over such sign, which light shall be kept
burning during the entire period that the hall is open to the public and until
the audience has left the hall. (1990 Code §12.307)
4-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code §12.309; amd. 2011 Code)
ARTICLE A. BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS
SECTION:
4-3A-1: License Required; Application
4-3A-2: License Fee
4-3A-3: Hours Of Operation
4-3A-4: Minors Prohibited
4-3A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
No person, firm, or corporation shall operate, maintain, or conduct a billiard
or pool table open to the public without having first obtained a license
therefor. All applications for such license shall state thereon the intended
location of the place of business and the number of tables to be used therein.
(1990 Code §12.310)
4-3A-2: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for any such license shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) for
each table. (1990 Code §12.311)
4-3A-3: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No billiard hall or other hall licensed under section
4-3A-1 of this article shall be open for business or used between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (1990 Code §12.313)
4-3A-4: MINORS PROHIBITED:
Minors under the age of sixteen (16) years shall not, under any circumstances,
frequent, loiter, go or remain in any hall licensed under section
4-3A-1 of this article at any time, unless it is upon some lawful errand and
sent under the direction and with the consent or knowledge of the parent,
guardian, or other person having the lawful custody of such minor; and it is
unlawful for the proprietor of any hall so licensed to allow or permit any such
minor to frequent, loiter, or remain within the hall in violation of this
section. (1990 Code §12.312)
ARTICLE B. BOWLING ALLEYS
SECTION:
4-3B-1: License Required; Application
4-3B-2: License Fee
4-3B-3: Hours Of Operation
4-3B-4: Minors Prohibited
4-3B-5: Gambling Prohibited
4-3B-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
No person, firm, or corporation shall operate or maintain a bowling alley open
to the public without having first obtained a license therefor. Application for
such license shall be made in writing to the village clerk and shall state
thereon the intended location of the place of business and the number of alleys
to be used. (1990 Code §12.315)
4-3B-2: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a bowling alley license shall be sixty dollars ($60.00) for
each alley. (1990 Code §12.316)
4-3B-3: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No person shall keep open, operate, or use any bowling alley between the hours
of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (1990 Code §12.317)
4-3B-4: MINORS PROHIBITED:
Minors under the age of eighteen (18) years shall not, under any circumstances,
frequent, loiter, go or remain in any bowling alley licensed under this article
at any time at which such activity would be a violation of the curfew
regulations of the village 1 . It is unlawful for the proprietor of any bowling
alley so licensed to allow or permit any such minor to frequent, loiter, or
remain within the bowling alley in violation of this article. (1990 Code
§12.318)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-5-1 of this code.
4-3B-5: GAMBLING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to gamble, bet, or permit any form of gambling or
betting, in any premises used for a bowling alley, pin or ball alley. (1990
Code §12.319)
ARTICLE C. MOTION PICTURES; THEATRICAL PERFORMANCES
SECTION:
4-3C-1: License Required
4-3C-2: Application For License
4-3C-3: License Fees; Number Of Motion Pictures And Performances
4-3C-4: Fee For Unlicensed Premises
4-3C-5: Standing, Crowded Premises Prohibited
4-3C-6: Fire, Building And Safety Requirements
4-3C-7: Outdoor Theaters
4-3C-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to give, present, or conduct any motion picture or theatrical,
for admission to which a fee is charged, except performances given solely for
the benefit of and under the supervision of a religious, educational, or
charitable organization, without having first secured a license therefor as is
provided in this article. (1990 Code §12.321)
4-3C-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for such licenses as required in section
4-3C-1 of this article shall be made in conformance with the general provisions
relating to such applications and shall state, in addition to the other
information required, the place of the intended performance and the seating
capacity thereof. (1990 Code §12.322)
4-3C-3: LICENSE FEES; NUMBER OF MOTION PICTURES AND PERFORMANCES:
The annual fee for such licenses shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00), except
if there is more than one theater screen in the building, in which case, the
annual fee for such license shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) per theater
screen. Any person securing an annual license for motion pictures or
theatricals, naming a specific place or building where the performances are to
be presented, may present therein any number of performances, including
theatricals, during the year for which the license was secured without having
to pay any additional fee. (1990 Code §12.323)
4-3C-4: FEE FOR UNLICENSED PREMISES:
For motion pictures or theatricals which are to be presented in premises which
are not covered by such license fee as provided in section
4-3C-3 of this article, the fee to paid shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per day;
provided, that no such motion picture or theatrical shall be presented in or on
any premises or building which does not fully comply with the requirements of
the ordinances relating to public gatherings and to maintenance of buildings
for this purpose. (1990 Code §12.324)
4-3C-5: STANDING, CROWDED PREMISES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to permit any person, excepting ushers or other theater
employees, to remain standing in a hall or room in which a motion picture is
presented during the time of such performance; and it is unlawful to admit to
any such hall more persons than can be accommodated by the seating arrangements
for the premises. (1990 Code §12.325)
4-3C-6: FIRE, BUILDING AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It is unlawful to use any scenery in any theater other than
nonflammable scenery or such as shall have been rendered nonflammable by the
application of fire preventive coatings. (1990 Code §12.326)
   B.   It is unlawful to present any public motion picture in any building or
structure which does not contain the number of exits required by the ordinances
of the village or county, or by statutes of the state, concerning buildings or
places intended for motion picture performances, or in premises which do not
comply with the provisions of this code relating to public gatherings, or in
premises in which the electric wiring does not fully comply with the
ordinances.
   C.   All places used for the exhibition of theatricals must be kept
adequately ventilated during the performance and for as long a time as the
audience remains therein. (1990 Code §12.327)
   D.   It is unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any aisles,
corridors, or exits leading from the room or enclosures in which a motion
picture or theatrical performance is being given or in which an audience for
such performance is gathered. (1990 Code §12.329)
4-3C-7: OUTDOOR THEATERS:
Outdoor theaters, where the audience is not housed in a building, shall be
conducted in full compliance with the applicable provisions of sections
4-3C-2 through
4-3C-5 and subsections
4-3C-6A, B and C of this article. Each outdoor theater shall be equipped with
washrooms, separate for men and women. (1990 Code §12.328)
ARTICLE D. COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
4-3D-1: Definitions
4-3D-2: License Required; Determination Of License Requirement
4-3D-3: Application For License
4-3D-4: License Fee
4-3D-5: Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Of License
4-3D-6: Term Of License
4-3D-7: Transfer Of License
4-3D-8: Conditions And Regulations
4-3D-9: Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Hearing Requirements
4-3D-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this article:
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any machine which, upon the insertion of a
coin, slug, token, plate or disk, may be operated by the public generally for
use as a game, entertainment, or amusement, whether or not registering a score.
The term includes such devices as marble machines, pinball machines, electronic
games, skill ball, mechanical grab-em machines, and all games, operations, or
transactions similar thereto under whatever name they may be known.
PERSON: Includes the following: any person, firm, corporation, or association
which owns any coin operated amusement device; the person, firm, corporation,
or association in whose place of business any such device is placed for use by
the public; and the person, firm, corporation, or association having control
over such device. (1990 Code §12.401)
4-3D-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; DETERMINATION OF LICENSE REQUIREMENT:
No person shall engage in the business of keeping or providing any "coin
operated amusement device", as defined in section
4-3D-1 of this article, for public use within the village without first having
obtained a license therefor from the village clerk. For purposes of this
section, any person who keeps or provides not more than four (4) coin operated
amusement devices on a premises that is devoted to the conduct of another
principal business shall be conclusively presumed not to be engaged in the
business of keeping or providing coin operated amusement devices for public
use. (1990 Code §12.402)
4-3D-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for the licenses required in section
4-3D-2 of this article shall be made in conformance with the general provisions
relating to such applications, and shall state, in addition to the other
information required, the place, number, and type of amusement devices
intended. (1990 Code §12.403)
4-3D-4: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for the license required by section
4-3D-2 of this article shall be as follows:
   A.   Thirty five dollars ($35.00) per year, if the applicant has no more
than five (5) devices.
   B.   Ten dollars ($10.00) per device per year, if the applicant has more
than five (5) devices. (1990 Code §12.405)
4-3D-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The village clerk, or such other officer as the village manager may direct,
shall investigate the information contained in the application, and shall
determine if the premises designated by the applicant as the location of the
business complies with the provisions of the village zoning ordinance. The
report of such investigation and determination, together with a copy of the
application, shall be transmitted to the village manager. Upon compliance by
the applicant with the requirements of this article and the village zoning
ordinance, the village manager shall instruct the village clerk to issue the
license, and upon payment by the applicant of the license fee required under
this article, such license shall be issued. (1990 Code §12.404; amd. 2011 Code)
4-3D-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
The license shall be valid on May 1 and shall terminate on April 30 of the
following year. (1990 Code §12.405)
4-3D-7: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
The license may be transferred from one device to another similar device upon
application to the village clerk. Such application is to include a description
and serial number of the new device and the payment of a fee of three dollars
($3.00). (1990 Code §12.406)
4-3D-8: CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Designated: In addition to any other condition or regulation contained
in this article or in the statutes of the state, the following conditions and
regulations shall be applicable to and shall govern and control the business of
keeping or providing coin operated amusement devices for public use within the
village:
      1.   The walls, ceiling, or floor, or any combination thereof, of the
building or structure or portion thereof containing such devices shall be
insulated or otherwise constructed so that no noise or vibration that is
detectable without the aid of mechanical device or instrument will be allowed
beyond the outer perimeter of the licensed premises. (1990 Code §12.408)
      2.   No coin operated amusement device shall be used for purposes of or
in connection with the wagering of money, goods, or merchandise upon the
outcome of the use or manipulation of such device or otherwise used for
purposes of "gambling", as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1 et
seq. (1990 Code §12.408; amd. 2011 Code)
      3.   No person under twelve (12) years of age shall be allowed on the
licensed premises unless accompanied by a parent, guardian, or an adult member
of the immediate family of such person.
      4.   At all times during the hours of operation of the licensed premises,
there shall be present a manager or other employee of the licensee, at least
one of whom shall be not less than eighteen (18) years of age, to provide
adequate control and supervision of the licensed premises and the use of the
coin operated amusement devices present therein. (1990 Code §12.408)
   B.   Noncompliance Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person licensed to
engage in the business of keeping or providing coin operated amusement devices
for public use within the village to fail to comply with the conditions and
regulations set forth in subsection A of this section or to suffer or permit
noncompliance with such conditions and regulations on or within the licensed
premises. (1990 Code §
4-3D-9: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING REQUIREMENTS:
Nothing in the provisions of this article shall preclude the right of the
village president to suspend or revoke the license of the licensee, as follows:
   A.   The village president may temporarily suspend any license issued under
the terms of this article when he has reason to believe that the continued
operation of particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare
of the community or create an imminent danger of a violation of applicable law.
In such case, he may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reasons
for such determination, and without notice or hearing, order the licensed
premises closed for not more than seven (7) days; provided, that the licensee
shall be given an opportunity to be heard in a public hearing during the seven
(7) day period; and further provided, that if such licensee is also engaged in
the conduct of other businesses on the licensed premises, such order shall not
be applicable to such other businesses.
   B.   The village president may suspend or revoke any license issued under
the terms of this article upon due notice to the licensee of the time and place
of a public hearing, and if the village president determines, upon hearing,
that the licensee has failed or refused to comply with the terms of this
article, has failed or refused to comply with other law applicable to the
business of keeping or providing coin operated amusement devices, or has been
convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of a violation of any provision
of this article. (1990 Code §12.407)
CHAPTER 4
RAFFLES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Raffles
4-4-1: RAFFLES:
The Village of Pingree Grove has adopted an intergovernmental agreement with
the County of Kane pertaining to raffle licensure. Licensure of raffles to be
conducted within the corporate limits of the Village shall be obtained via
permit issued by the County, and all such raffles are subject to the Illinois
Raffles and Poker Runs Act and any County ordinance, rules or regulations
pertaining to raffles, as they may be amended from time to time. The Village
shall, upon request, provide applicants with a copy of the County application
for raffle licensure. The Village shall recognize any County-issued raffle
license as valid within the corporate limits of the Village. (Ord. 2019-O-04,
2-4-2019)
CHAPTER 5
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, ICE CREAM VENDORS, HANDBILLS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions And General Conditions
4-5-2: Exemptions
4-5-3: Solicitations In Public Roadways
4-5-4: License Required
4-5-5: License Application
4-5-6: Verification Of Application
4-5-7: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
4-5-8: Appeal From Denial, Suspension Or Revocation
4-5-9: Restrictions
4-5-10: Right To Rescind
4-5-11: Falsely Claiming Representation Of The Village Or A Public Entity
4-5-12: Electrical Aggregation, Electrical, Natural Gas Or Utility Supply
Agreements
4-5-13: Food Or Beverage Vending Vehicles
4-5-14: Approach To Food Or Beverage Vending Vehicle
4-5-15: Handbill Definitions
4-5-16: Public Places
4-5-17: Private Property
4-5-18: Posted Premises
4-5-19: Vehicles
4-5-20: Offensive Materials
4-5-21: Required Information
4-5-22: Exemptions Applicable To Handbills
4-5-23: Penalties
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL CONDITIONS:
AUTHORITY: Any authority provided to any expressly named Village official in
this chapter (e.g., Village Clerk or Chief of Police) may also be exercised by
a designee thereof.
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY: All forms of activity of peddlers, solicitors, itinerant
merchants or ice cream vendors involving the sale of any commercial item or the
solicitation of monetary compensation, the solicitation or sale of any
commercial item or any item of economic value.
COMMERCIAL ITEM: Any commodity, service, subscription, product, good, article
or item of ascertainable economic value, that is offered for present or future
delivery, in exchange for some form of monetary compensation (whether received
contemporaneously or at a future time).
FOOD OR BEVERAGE: Any product, whether a food or beverage, intended to be
consumed by persons for the purpose of providing nourishment or flavor,
including but not limited to snacks, ice cream, beverages, frozen confections,
cookies, chips, hot dogs, fruit, or any other food or beverage, whatsoever.
FOOD OR BEVERAGE DELIVERY VEHICLE: A vehicle utilized to make pre-arranged
deliveries of food or beverage to a single location of private property within
the Village, without soliciting or making additional retail sales that are not
pre-arranged (e.g., a pizza truck, a "peapod truck" or similar truck, making a
delivery of food to a single residential location after said food was ordered
via telephone or internet).
FOOD OR BEVERAGE VENDING VEHICLE: A vehicle from which the retail sale of food
or beverage for human consumption is conducted (including ice cream vehicles).
ICE CREAM VEHICLE: A food or beverage vending vehicle used for the retail sale
of ice cream, frozen confections, or similar desserts.
ITINERANT MERCHANT: A person engaged in business in the Village offering for
sale any commercial item, who intends to continue such business in the Village
for not more than one hundred eighty (180) days and who, for such purpose,
leases or occupies all or part of any room, structure or vacant lot in the
Village for the display of such commercial item, or in connection with the
offering of such services.
NON-COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY: Activities that are not commercial in nature, such as
activities that do not involve sale of any commercial item or the exchange of
any item of economic value, but rather which are solely consisting of: a)
religious or political free speech without any corresponding financial or
commercial activity; or, b) other similar activities not involving commerce or
trade or the sale of any commercial item. If there is any element of commercial
activity, a given activity shall not qualify as non-commercial activity (e.g.,
the solicitation of payments in exchange for a commercial item shall be deemed
commercial activity).
NON-PROFIT: An organization conducted and operated in such a fashion as to be
qualified as a non-profit entity as established by official documentation of a
unit of State or Federal government. Proof of non-profit/charitable status
shall be in a format acceptable to the Village Clerk and shall be filed with
the Village at the time of application. Such proof shall include Internal
Revenue Service determination letters identifying the organization as a tax-
exempt entity, proof of registration with the Illinois Attorney General as a
charitable entity, or other documentation acceptable to the Clerk.
PEDDLER: A person engaged in business who engages in the sale of any commercial
item on any street, sidewalk, park or public place, or who travels from place
to place in the Village, or who engages in the sale and delivery from any
vehicle or pushcart going from place to place in the Village any commercial
item, and who carries such commercial item with him for delivery at the time of
sale. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a company that is engaged in sales of
commercial items from a fixed location and which engages in otherwise lawful
sales of commercial items upon the sidewalk or right-of-way adjacent to their
fixed place of business shall not be deemed to be a peddler.
REGULATED ACTIVITY: Any activity which is subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
SALE: The offered, attempted or completed sale, exchange of compensation, money
or remuneration, trade, barter or solicitation of future sales/trades/barter of
any commercial item.
SOLICITOR: A person engaged in business, going from place to place in the
Village or on any street, sidewalk, park or public place, who takes orders for
future delivery of any commercial item, who solicits subscriptions for books,
magazines, newspapers or other periodicals, publications or commercial items
for immediate or future delivery, or who offers to furnish services or invites
orders for services or any commercial item.
VEHICLE: For purposes of this chapter, the term "vehicle" shall include: a)
every motor vehicle which is mechanically propelled and designed to transport
one or more persons; b) any push cart, bicycle cart, or other device used to
transport food which is propelled by the person(s) operating said device; or,
c) any other mobile or portable device utilized in regulated activity. (Ord.
2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-2: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Persons who are engaged in non-commercial activities shall not be
required to register, to obtain a license or to pay any fees in association
with this chapter.
   B.   No provision of this chapter shall apply to any Federal, State or local
public employee who is engaged in the performance of their official duties.
Similarly, no license shall be required under this chapter for any public
entity that is engaged in the sale of any commercial item or which is otherwise
engaged in peddling or soliciting, unless the activity in question is regulated
under section
4-5-3 of this chapter.
   C.   No provision of this chapter shall be construed in such a fashion as to
deny any person of the right to free speech or freedom of religion as
guaranteed under the Constitution of the United States or of the State of
Illinois.
   D.   The Village may enter into an agreement with an entity permitted to
engage in sales of items from a fixed location on public property (e.g., a
concession stand located in a public park), and may exempt such an entity from
licensure under this chapter.
   E.   Minors engaged in fundraising activities to support: 1) a local chapter
of a Federally chartered charitable organization (such as Girl Scouts or Boy
Scouts of America); 2) an activity organized and operated by a public or
private school or a unit of local government; 3) an organization organized as a
not for profit entity and registered with the State of Illinois as a charitable
organization; or, 4) a similar not for profit organization shall be deemed to
be engaging in non-commercial activity, and shall not be subject to licensure,
but shall be required to comply with any other applicable regulations herein
and shall register with the Village to demonstrate eligible status. This
exemption shall only apply where the fundraising activities are conducted on
behalf of a local chapter of such organization which has its place of
organization or meeting within five (5) miles of the corporate limits of the
Village of Pingree Grove, or where the fundraising activities are conducted on
behalf of a component of a public or charter school that serves students within
the Village.
   F.   Persons engaged in the wholesale selling of commodities or articles for
further resale or for use in industrial or business establishments shall not be
subject to licensure or registration hereunder. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
   G.   Persons engaged in the solicitation of subscriptions for newspapers and
similar periodicals shall be treated as non- commercial solicitors for purposes
of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-O-16, 7-2-2018)
4-5-3: SOLICITATIONS IN PUBLIC ROADWAYS:
   A.   Unlawful To Engage In Regulated Activity: Except for food and beverage
vending vehicles, it shall be unlawful to engage in any form of regulated
activity, peddling, soliciting, canvassing, sale of commercial items, or other
similar activity that is not expressly permitted under subsection B of this
section, within a public roadway or right-of-way. No person shall stand on a
street for the purpose of soliciting employment or business from the occupant
of any vehicle.
   B.   Permitted Solicitations In Public Roadways And Rights-Of-Way:
      1.   Public safety employees, including Police and Fire Department
employees, are permitted to engage in charitable solicitation within roadways
without any further regulation.
      2.   A charitable organization, as defined within section 2 of the
Illinois Charitable Games Act, may engage in charitable solicitation within a
public roadway only after applying for and receiving a license to engage in
said activity. The Village Clerk shall be authorized to generate and maintain a
license application and form of license, consistent with the following
regulations:
         a.   The application must be filed not less than ten (10) days prior
to the date on which the activity is proposed to occur.
         b.   The application must list the date(s) and time(s) of any proposed
activity, the manner and condition in which the activity is proposed to occur,
and related information. Permits shall be valid only for the dates and times
listed on the application. In order to permit proper evaluation of seasonal and
weather conditions, traffic conditions, and the conduct of the charitable
solicitations, no permit shall be valid for a period of longer than thirty (30)
days.
         c.   Consistent with the State limitations on such licenses, the Chief
of Police may impose reasonable restrictions on the activity. However, the
issuance of a license shall not constitute approval of the applicant's
activities, and any applicant is encouraged to utilize safe practices in the
conduct of their activities. Among the restrictions to be imposed on any such
activities are:
            (1)   Such activities may only be conducted during daylight hours.
            (2)   Such activities may only be conducted by persons of sound
mind, over the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
            (3)   Any person engaging in the activities must wear a brightly
colored, reflective vest.
            (4)   No person may stand in a roadway or engage in such activities
in a way that hinders, impedes or slows the flow of traffic.
            (5)   No person engaged in such activities may approach any vehicle
that is moving.
            (6)   No person engaged in such activities may stand in a lane of
traffic at a stoplight, when the stoplight is illuminated green for the lane of
traffic in question.
            (7)   No person engaged in such activities may place any temporary
or permanent obstacle, improvement, sign or other device in the roadway or
right-of-way adjacent thereto.
            (8)   No person engaged in such activities shall engage in
harassing or aggressive conduct.
            (9)   No person engaged in such activities shall make physical
contact with any person or vehicle in the course of engaging in the charitable
solicitation, unless invited by the person or occupant of such vehicle to do
so.
            (10)   Any person engaged in such activities shall only engage in
the activities at a single, fixed location as approved on the license issued by
the Village.
         d.   The applicant must provide the Village with a valid certificate
of liability insurance that insures the applicant against claims for property
damage or bodily injury arising out of or in connection with the roadway
solicitation activities, with minimum coverage limits of at least one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00). No solicitation permit may be issued for a period of
time longer than the period of coverage evidenced on such insurance
certificate.
   C.   Violations: It shall be unlawful to engage in any form of solicitation
within a public roadway or right-of-way except if conducted in compliance with
subsection B1 or B2 of this section. It shall be unlawful to engage in
charitable solicitation governed under subsection B2 of this section without a
then-valid roadway charitable solicitation license issued by the Village, or to
engage in roadway charitable solicitation in violation of the conditions of
such permit or this section. A violation of this section shall be punishable by
a fine of not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00). If a person is cited
for a violation of this section and, after receiving the citation, engages in
further roadway charitable solicitation in violation of this section, each
separate act of solicitation shall constitute a separate offense, punishable by
fine. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to engage in any commercial activity or the activity of an
itinerant merchant, peddler, solicitor, or non-stationary food or beverage/ice
cream vendor, without first obtaining a commercial solicitation license for
said activity from the Village Clerk, unless such activity is exempt under
section
4-5-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-O-19, 10-2-
2023)
4-5-5: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   A commercial solicitation license application required under this
chapter shall be made on a form approved by the Village Clerk and Chief of
Police. Said application shall provide the information required by the Village
Clerk and Chief of Police, including but not limited to:
      1.   Name and description of applicant and any persons to engage in
solicitation activities. (All information required below shall be provided for
each person to engage in solicitation activities.)
      2.   Address (permanent and local) of the applicant, and address of the
business(es) being represented, along with home phone number, business phone
number and cellular telephone number of each applicant/solicitor to be
utilized.
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the business, including the
goods to be sold or the services offered.
      4.   The name and address of the person by whom the applicant is employed
or with whom he is associated.
      5.   The length of time the applicant wishes to engage in such commercial
activity (limited to 30 days or less for peddlers and solicitors, and 180 days
or less for itinerant merchants).
      6.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the vehicle together
with license number.
      7.   A statement that the applicant has not been convicted in the past
four (4) years of a felony, any sex offense as defined in article XI of the
State of Illinois Criminal Code, assault, aggravated assault, battery,
aggravated battery, eavesdropping, theft, deception, criminal damage to
property, criminal trespass to land or vehicles, unauthorized possession of
weapons, sale or possession of any dangerous or narcotic drug, or disorderly
conduct.
      8.   The applicant must show proof of a Retailers Occupational Tax
Certificate to the Village Clerk.
      9.   The applicant must submit a signed authorization and waiver, along
with payment of the then-current Village fee (as established by the Chief of
Police), for completion of a criminal background check. Said waiver and fee is
required for each person proposed to be engaged in the activities.
      10.   The identity of the primary applicant, (business/owner represented
for solicitation) who shall be responsible for any costs, damages, liabilities
or claims of damage arising out of the activities of any person listed on the
application that is engaged in regulated activity.
   B.   At the time of filing a commercial solicitation license application for
a peddler, solicitor, itinerant merchant, or non-stationary food or beverage/
ice cream vendor license ("Solicitation Vendors License"), a non-refundable
application fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and shall be paid to the
Village Clerk to cover the cost of processing. Every peddler, solicitor, and
itinerant merchant, or non-stationary food or beverage/ice cream vendor as
those terms are defined in section
4-5-1 of this chapter, shall require a separate license. All fees shall be
payable prior to the issuance of a license under this chapter, for the full
duration of license sought. All fees shall not be refundable.
      1.   The fee for a solicitor license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per
day, per person engaged in solicitation, for a period not to exceed thirty (30)
days.
      2.   The fee for an itinerant merchant license shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) per day, per person engaged in solicitation for a period not to exceed
one hundred eighty (180) days.
      3.   The fee for a peddler license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per
day, per person engaged in solicitation for a period not to exceed thirty (30)
days.
      4.   The fee for a non-stationary food or beverage/ice cream vendor shall
be fifty dollars ($50.00) per month period (thirty (30) days), per person
engaged in solicitation, for a period not to exceed one hundred eighty (180)
days.
      No solicitor, itinerant merchant or peddler shall solicit a resident at
his, her or their residence if such resident has a "no peddler, solicitor or
itinerant merchant" sticker or sign affixed to his, her or their residence
proximate to the front door of their residence.
      These requirements set forth in subsection B do not apply to those
persons engaging in non-commercial activity as defined in section
4-5-1.
   C.   Any person who is applying on behalf of a non-profit and who feels that
such cost of licensing would work a hardship may appeal such cost to the
President. The President may make a determination upon examination of the
appellant's financial records or on such other information as the President
feels necessary. Upon finding such a hardship exists, the President may reduce
or waive such licensing and investigative costs. Any waiving or reduction of
costs, however, will not affect the obligation to register.
   D.   An individual license shall be required for each person engaged in
solicitation activities. Upon approval of a license, the Village shall issue to
each solicitor an ID card that shall be openly displayed upon the solicitor's
person while engaged in any solicitation within the Village. Each person
engaging in regulated activity shall openly display their solicitor ID and
shall have, on their person, a copy of the license issued hereunder.
   E.   Any application seeking authorization to conduct regulated activities
beyond the scope of a previously issued permit shall require the issuance of a
new and separate permit. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-O-19, 10-2-
2023)
4-5-6: VERIFICATION OF APPLICATION:
   A.   After the submission to the Village Clerk of a completed application
and all supporting documentation and fees, the Chief of Police shall review the
application and supporting documentation, and shall conduct a background check
on each person listed on the application. The Chief of Police shall provide a
recommendation based upon the background investigation. If the applicant is
approved by the Chief of Police and Village Clerk, then the Chief shall issue
an ID card and the Clerk shall issue a license (per each individual listed on
the application).
   B.   No license shall be issued if the information furnished by the
applicant has been falsely stated. No license shall be issued to any person who
has been convicted of any sex offense as defined in article XI of the State of
Illinois Criminal Code, assault, aggravated assault, battery, aggravated
battery, eavesdropping, theft, deception, criminal damage to property, criminal
trespass to land or vehicles, unauthorized possession of weapons, sale or
possession of any dangerous drug, or disorderly conduct as these terms are
defined in the State of Illinois Criminal Code. If the requisite information
appears on the license application and is verified by investigation, a license
shall be issued.
   C.   If a license application is rejected, the applicant shall be mailed a
notice of rejection to the address listed on their application. (Ord. 2017-O-
05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-7: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the
Chief of Police for any of the following causes. Notice of revocation of a
license shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of
the complaint.
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license.
      2.   Conviction of any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made
in connection with the sale of any commercial item.
      3.   Any violation of this chapter.
      4.   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.
      5.   Conducting the business licensed under this chapter in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
      6.   Failure to pay any tax, duty or other sum or charge due to the
Village from the licensee or any person listed on the licensee's application,
or any such person becoming a debtor of the Village on any form of obligation.
   B.   In addition, in the event that the Chief of Police becomes aware that
any licensee under this chapter has been charged with any offense that would
either disqualify the applicant from receiving a license or justify revocation
of a previously issued license, the Chief of Police may notify the licensee,
via mail, of the Village's intent to conduct a hearing to revoke the license in
question. Such notice shall be mailed not less than three (3) business days
before the date of the hearing; however, if the licensee is provided with
actual, personal notice, not less than one business day of notice is required.
Said hearing may be conducted by the Chief of Police or an Administrative
Hearing Officer of the Village, and shall be conducted as a hearing with a
civil burden of proof and informal rules of evidence. In the event that the
Chief of Police determines that, by a preponderance of the evidence, that it is
more probably true than not that the licensee committed the offense in
question, the Chief of Police shall revoke the license.
   C.   Further, the Chief of Police may suspend any license, for a period of
not more than five (5) business days, when the Chief determines that suspension
is in the public interest or is reasonably necessary to protect the public
health or safety, or when investigating an action or alleged violation of this
chapter or any other Village ordinance or State or Federal Statute by a
licensee. License and application fees shall be forfeited for any days that a
license is suspended or revoked.
   D.   When multiple applicants are listed on a single application to engage
in conduct licensed under this chapter, the conduct of any single applicant/
licensee shall be grounds to take action relative to all persons listed on said
application/license. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-8: APPEAL FROM DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
Any person who is denied a license under this chapter, or who receives a
license and said license is subsequently revoked or suspended, may appeal such
decision to the Village President. A written notice of appeal must be filed in
writing with the Village Clerk, within thirty (30) days of the date of denial,
suspension or revocation, and said written appeal must outline all grounds and
basis for the appeal that the licensee/applicant wishes to have considered. The
decision of the Village President shall be issued within thirty (30) days of
the date of receipt of the appeal, and shall be final. The Village President
may, at his or her discretion, order a hearing before an Administrative Hearing
Officer of the Village to consider the appeal, on the grounds identified in the
written notice of appeal. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-9: RESTRICTIONS:
The restrictions of this section shall apply to both commercial activity and
non-commercial activity.
   A.   Posted Premises: No person who engages in regulated activity shall
enter upon any business or private residence in the Village without having been
requested or invited to do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of
the business or residence, for the purpose of pursuing his business of
peddling, or soliciting, if there is posted in a place that can be readily seen
by one approaching the business or residence, a sign bearing the legend "No
Peddlers", "No Solicitors", or "No Canvassers", or words of similar import. It
shall be unlawful for any person, whether engaging in commercial or
noncommercial canvassing, solicitation or other similar enterprise, to, when
entering upon a premises which has a reasonably visible "No Solicitors" or
other such similar sign, continue with the attempted peddling, soliciting or
service as an itinerant merchant. Upon sight of such sign, the person engaged
in the activities must leave the premises. If such sign is reasonably visible,
the person engaged in the activities shall be presumed to have seen the sign
and shall be in violation of this chapter if he or she attempts his or her
commercial activity or non-commercial activity.
   B.   Night Activity: No person who engages in regulated activity shall go
upon any private residence in the Village for the purpose of canvassing or of
pursuing his business of regulated activity without having been requested or
invited to do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of the private
residence, before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
of any day.
   C.   Noise: No person who engages in regulated activity shall carry on his
trade by means of loud outcries or other noises that disturb the peace and
quiet of the residents of the Village.
   D.   Leave Upon Request: No person shall engage in regulated activity at, or
remain on the premises of, any residence after having been asked by the
occupant thereof to leave said premises or residence.
   E.   Leave Or Deposit Materials: No person shall leave or deposit materials
upon private property without the consent of the property owner.
   F.   Activity At Single-Family Dwelling: In the case of a single- family
dwelling, any person who engages in regulated activity shall only enter any
property from the front yard and, unless invited by the resident of the
premises, shall only knock, ring or otherwise attempt to contact the residents
in the building at the front or main door to the dwelling.
   G.   Activity At Multiple-Family Dwelling: For purposes of soliciting at
multiple-family dwelling units, any person who engages in regulated activity
shall only enter any property from the front entrance to the dwelling unit
complex and, unless invited by the specific resident of a specific unit, shall
only knock, ring or otherwise attempt to contact the residents in the building
at the front or main door of each such unit.
   H.   False, Fraudulent Or Misleading Statements: No person who engages in
regulated activity shall use any plan, scheme or ruse or make any statement
which indicates or implies that the purpose of such person's visit is other
than to obtain orders for or to make sales of goods or services. No person who
engages in regulated activity shall make any false, fraudulent or misleading
statement in connection with the regulated activity or in connection with the
sale of a commercial item.
   I.   Misrepresentation Of Rights Of Buyer: No person who engages in
regulated activity shall misrepresent the right of a buyer to rescind, or
cancel a sale under the provisions of applicable law.
   J.   Required Licenses, Permits And Permissions: No person shall solicit any
sale of a commercial item on behalf of an entity, organization or individual
which does not possess all required licenses, permits and permissions to engage
in the sale of the commercial item within the Village of Pingree Grove and
State of Illinois.
   K.   Expired, Suspended Or Revoked Licenses: No person shall engage in any
regulated activity at a time when their license for said activity has expired
or has been suspended or revoked. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-10: RIGHT TO RESCIND:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in a violation of the Consumer
Fraud and Deceptive Business Practices Act ("the Act"), including any violation
of the 3-day right to rescind provisions applicable to door-to-door sales under
the Act.
Any person engaged in sales governed under 815 Illinois Compiled Statutes 505/
2B (or any successor or amended version of said statute) shall be required to
provide any customer with a written disclosure form, separate from any purchase
contract, in both English and the primary language of the customer, that
includes the full disclaimer and notice of consumer rights contemplated by the
statute. It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with the Act, or to fail to
give the separate notice required under this section. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-
2017)
4-5-11: FALSELY CLAIMING REPRESENTATION OF THE VILLAGE OR A PUBLIC ENTITY:
It shall be unlawful to engage in any regulated activities and to falsely claim
to be a representative of the Village of Pingree Grove or any other
governmental entity. Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of
not less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-
2017)
4-5-12: ELECTRICAL AGGREGATION, ELECTRICAL, NATURAL GAS OR UTILITY SUPPLY
AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Any person engaged in soliciting relating in any way to electrical
aggregation or the supply of electricity or electrical power, or the sale or
aggregation of electrical power, natural gas or any other utility supply within
the Village shall be required to provide a written disclosure, separate from
all other documentation, to any potential customer first at the start of
contact with any person within the Village (while engaged in the soliciting)
and again prior to executing any contract or agreement for sale or for future
sale or delivery of any commercial item. Said disclosure shall be in English
and in the primary language of the potential customer, and shall be in a form
and content acceptable to the Village Clerk. Said disclosure shall clearly and
expressly identify whether the solicitor is working in connection with any
Village-initiated program or policy. If the person is not working in connection
with a Village-initiated program or policy (e.g., the person is not soliciting
for electrical supply under the requirements of an electrical aggregation
program from a supplier approved by the Village Board), the disclosure shall so
indicate, and shall also indicate that the Village maintains an alternate
aggregation program.
   B.   Said person engaged in soliciting shall also verbally, expressly and
clearly identify and indicate whether said person is working in connection with
any Village initiated program or policy. If the person is not working in
connection with a Village-initiated program or policy (e.g., the person is not
soliciting for electrical supply under the requirements of an electrical
aggregation program from a supplier approved by the Village Board), the person
shall so indicate, and shall also indicate that the Village maintains an
alternate aggregation program.
   C.   Without regard to any other definition, exemption or other provision of
this chapter, any person engaged in behavior contemplated by subsection A of
this section shall be required to register as a solicitor. The failure to
register as a solicitor, when engaged in behavior contemplated by subsection A
of this section shall be a violation of this chapter, punishable by a fine of
not less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   D.   It shall be unlawful to fail to provide the separate, verbal and
written disclosure required under the preceding section, or to falsely claim to
be representing a Village-initiated project.
   E.   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-13: FOOD OR BEVERAGE VENDING VEHICLES:
   A.   Vehicles used exclusively as food or beverage delivery vehicles are not
governed under the provisions of this section.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to operate or own any vehicle utilized as a food
or beverage vending vehicle within the Village of Pingree Grove, without first
obtaining a County food service license and any required inspection, permit or
insurance. Copies of the same shall be provided to any Village official or
customer, for inspection, upon request. All such vehicles shall be maintained
in good working order, and in compliance with all applicable regulations, codes
and ordinances.
   C.   No person shall operate a food or beverage vending vehicle, employ a
person to operate a food or beverage vending vehicle, or rent, lease or
otherwise provide a food or beverage vending vehicle for use within the Village
without first having obtained a food or beverage vending vehicle license from
the Village Chief of Police. Any food or beverage vending vehicle operating in
the Village shall have its Village food or beverage vending vehicle license
prominently displayed in the lower right hand corner of the passenger front
window of said vehicle, or in such other location as shall be visible to
persons approaching such vehicle. A separate application and license shall be
required for each person who is more than a twenty percent (20%) owner of the
enterprise operating the food or beverage vending vehicle, for each person
driving or operating the food or beverage vending vehicle within the corporate
limits of the Village, and for each person working in or vending from the food
or beverage vending vehicle within the corporate limits of the Village.
   D.   Application for a food and beverage vending vehicle license shall be
made on the form utilized for a solicitor's license and shall be subject to the
same restrictions. Food and beverage vending vehicle licenses may be renewed
upon the provision of a certification by the licensee, in form and content
acceptable to the Chief of Police, affirming the continuing eligibility for
such licensure, and the payment of additional monthly fees as outlined below.
In addition, the Chief of Police may require additional investigation (such as
completion of a new background investigation), or may decline renewal and
require reapplication for licensure. The Chief of Police shall ultimately
approve of or reject each application for licensure.
   E.   At the time of filing the application for a food or beverage vending
vehicle, a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to the Village to cover
the cost of verifying the application; said fee shall be paid for each person
listed on the application. These fees shall be non-refundable. Every peddler,
solicitor, and itinerant merchant, as those terms are defined in section
4-5-1 of this chapter, shall require a license. The fees contemplated in this
subsection shall be in addition to the required fee for background checks. All
fees shall be payable prior to the issuance of a license under this chapter,
for the full duration of license sought. In addition, a monthly fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) shall apply to the operation of each such vehicle; the first
month's fee shall be covered by the nonrefundable application fee. Monthly fees
shall not be refundable or prorated.
   F.   In addition to the regulations applicable to solicitor's licenses, no
person who is a sex offender as defined in the Sex Offender Registration Act 1
shall be permitted to operate or obtain a license to operate any food or
beverage vending vehicle within the Village. No person who has pled guilty or
otherwise has been convicted of any crime that would disqualify said person
from holding a job as a public school teacher or bus driver within the State of
Illinois shall be permitted to operate or obtain a license to operate any food
or beverage vending vehicle within the Village. Additionally, no person who, in
the judgment of the Chief of Police of the Village, has pled guilty to or
otherwise has been convicted of any crime or offense that is incompatible with
the requirements of this chapter, including but not limited to: 1) one serious
or multiple minor traffic offenses that demonstrate a history of failing to
adhere to applicable traffic regulations; 2) crimes or offenses directed at
children or minors; 3) crimes or offenses involving the sale of unlawful or
illicit substances such as illegal drugs, fireworks, or sale of age-regulated
materials to underage persons; or, 4) such other crimes as the Chief of Police
shall deem incompatible with this chapter, shall be eligible to operate or to
receive a license to operate any food or beverage vending vehicle within the
Village. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for review and approval of
all food or beverage vehicle vending licenses submitted to the Village, and any
license not meeting his approval shall be rejected and denied.
   G.   Every food or beverage vending vehicle operated within the Village on
any public roadway shall be covered by a policy of automotive liability
insurance and a policy of comprehensive general liability insurance issued by a
solvent and responsible insurance company authorized to do business in
Illinois. Each such policy shall carry minimum limits of coverage of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence. Each vendor shall provide the
Village with a certificate of insurance naming the Village as an additional
primary insured without right of subrogation.
   H.   Violation of the terms of any provision of this chapter or any
provision of the Illinois Vehicle Code or applicable local, State or Federal
food and sanitation ordinances shall be cause for revocation of a license, and
subsequent ineligibility to obtain a license, for a period of not less than ten
(10) days and not more than one year. A third or subsequent violation shall be
cause for permanent ineligibility for issuance of a Village license. Violations
shall be processed according to the provisions of sections
4-5-7 and
4-5-8 of this chapter.
   I.   All food or beverage vending vehicles (including ice cream vehicles)
shall be equipped with the following items, which shall be operational and in
use whenever vending occurs within the corporate limits of the Village.
      1.   A litter or trash container, visible and available to customers of
the vending vehicle (in addition, each licensee shall clean up any litter or
trash occurring as a result of the vendor's business prior to leaving any area
of sale).
      2.   Adequate equipment and refrigeration to keep all perishable food or
beverage on the vehicle at a temperature below fifty degrees Fahrenheit (50°F),
and perishable ice cream or similar frozen confections at a temperature of
below zero degrees Fahrenheit (0°F). The use of ice or dry ice for
refrigeration is prohibited.
      3.   A sign on the passenger side of the vehicle displaying in letters no
smaller than five inches (5") in height in a clearly visible color, the name
and phone number of the company or person responsible for the operation of the
vehicle.
      4.   At all times while engaged in retail sales or soliciting for retail
sales, there may be no persons under the age of eighteen (18) or persons other
than employees in said food or beverage vending vehicle. All persons in said
vehicle must be licensed by the Village in accordance with this chapter.
   J.   In addition, all ice cream vehicles shall be equipped with the
following items, which shall be operational and in use whenever vending occurs
within the corporate limits of the Village.
      1.   A sign on the front and back of the vehicle which shall consist of
reflective letters no less than five inches (5") in height and which shall
state "CAUTION, CHILDREN CROSSING".
      2.   A foldout, diamond-shaped sign on the left side of the vehicle which
shall consist of black or yellow reflective letters no less than five inches
(5") in height which shall state "SLOW". This sign shall be located at a height
of between five feet (5') and eight feet (8') above ground level and shall be
displayed at a ninety degree (90°) angle to the left side of the vehicle
whenever it is stopped for the purpose of vending.
      3.   Two (2) amber lights, each five inches (5") or greater in diameter
mounted on the left and right front, and two (2) amber lights, each five inches
(5") or greater in diameter mounted on the left and right rear of the vehicle.
Said amber lights shall flash alternately from the opposing light on the same
end (front or rear) of the vehicle and be sufficiently bright to be visible
from a distance of five hundred feet (500') during daylight conditions,
whenever the vehicle is stopped for the purpose of vending.
   K.   All food or beverage vending vehicles shall be operated in strict
compliance with the Village traffic ordinances and the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   L.   Whenever a food or beverage vending vehicle stops to make a retail
sale, said vehicle shall drive to the right side of the road and park adjacent
to the curb, in a location that is otherwise a legal parking spot. No vending
shall occur in any location that blocks any fire hydrant, driveway, sidewalk,
roadway, or right-of-way. No retail sale shall occur to any person who is
standing in a public roadway. Food and beverage vending vehicles may make
temporary (not longer than 5 minute) stops in no-parking zones provided that no
driveway, fire hydrant, fire lane, sidewalk or other similar object is blocked
during the duration of such temporary stop.
   M.   No food or beverage vending vehicle shall remain in any one location on
a public right-of-way for the purpose of vending for more than fifteen (15)
minutes at a time, except with the express permission of the Village Police
Department.
   N.   All vending shall occur from the right, or passenger side of the
vehicle, through a door or window designed for the same, with the vehicle
stationary and in park, with the parking brake applied. In the case of any
motor vehicle used for vending, no person shall occupy the driver's seat of
said vehicle at any time the vehicle is engaged in retail sales.
   O.   No retail sales shall occur before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after
sunset on any day, except with the express, written permission of the Village
Police Department.
   P.   No food or beverage vending vehicle shall be operated by any person who
is afflicted with or who is the carrier of any infections or contagious disease
which may be passed by vending or retail sales.
   Q.   Each motorized food or beverage vending vehicle utilized within the
Village shall display a current Illinois vehicle safety sticker evidencing a
current safety test inspection from a licensed Illinois safety lane inspection
station, whether or not such sticker would be customarily required for said
vehicle in the absence of this chapter.
   R.   No food or beverage vending vehicle shall vend directly to another
vehicle. Vending shall be to pedestrians only.
   S.   No retail sales shall occur within one hundred feet (100') of the
nearest intersection of public roadways.
   T.   No retail sales shall occur on private property and no food or beverage
vending vehicle shall be operated on any private property except with the
permission of the property owner.
   U.   No retail sales shall occur in any public parking lot and no food or
beverage vending vehicle shall be operated in any public parking lot, except
with the express written permission of the Village Police Department.
   V.   No food or beverage vending vehicle shall be operated and no retail
sales shall be conducted within five hundred feet (500') of any Village
sponsored or authorized activity in any Village park or open space where food
concessions are available and open, except with the approval of the Village
Police Department.
   W.   No alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, or other products which are
age-restricted under applicable Federal, State or local law, shall be offered
for retail sale from any food or beverage vending vehicle.
   X.   No food or beverage vending vehicle shall be utilized to solicit retail
sales on any street with a speed limit in excess of twenty five (25) mph within
the limits of the Village, nor on a street with three (3) or more lanes for
moving traffic. No food or beverage vending vehicle shall be utilized for
retail sales on any street with a speed limit in excess of twenty five (25)
mph.
   Y.   No food or beverage vending vehicle which is attempting to solicit
retail sales shall be operated at a speed in excess of the lesser of: 1)
fifteen (15) mph; or, 2) such speed which is safe in response to the conditions
and traffic encountered.
   Z.   No food or beverage vending vehicle shall utilize any strobe or
revolving light to attempt to solicit retail sales or advertise the presence of
said food or beverage vending vehicle while in operation in the Village.
   AA.   No food or beverage vending vehicle shall utilize any noise or sound
amplification device or music to solicit retail sales or advertise its
presence, except while stationary and parked in a lawful location. Any music,
noise or sound amplification used must be in compliance with all applicable
local, State and Federal regulations and: 1) must be at a volume that does not
create a nuisance; 2) must be at a volume such that the music or noise cannot
be heard from more than three hundred feet (300') from said food or beverage
vending vehicle; and, 3) must be at a volume that does not create a public
hazard.
   BB.   No food or beverage vending vehicle or operator thereof shall operate
any camera or video camera at any time while in the Village, except that a
single, rear-mounted video camera may be utilized for reversing operations,
provided that no recording is made from said camera.
   CC.   The operator of any food or beverage vending vehicle shall report and
pay Sales Taxes, with such Sales Taxes being reported as originating within the
Village, where required under applicable Illinois law. The operator shall also
remit any required Prepared Foods Tax required under this Code. All operators
shall be required to register to pay the Prepared Foods Tax as a condition of
licensure.
   DD.   Food and Beverage Vending Vehicles Operating from Fixed Location:
Where a food and beverage vending vehicle proposes to operate from a fixed
location (e.g. from a private party, at a special event, or otherwise from a
fixed location for a duration of one hour or more), the operator of such
vehicle shall not be required to obtain a Food and Beverage Vending Vehicle
license, but shall be required to obtain a Fixed Location Food Truck license
under this subsection
4-5-13(DD). Any vehicle with a preexisting Food and Beverage Vending Vehicle
license that seeks to operate from a fixed location may do so by making
application for a Fixed Location Food Truck license under this subsection (DD),
but shall not be required to pay a supplemental fee for the Fixed Location Food
Truck License.
      1.   The operator shall make application on a form acceptable to the
Chief of Police, which shall include, at minimum, the following information:
         a.   The operator's name, contact information and physical address
(including cell phone and email).
         b.   The operator's Illinois Business Tax identification number, and
all information required to register to pay Prepared Foods Tax to the Village.
         c.   The proposed location and duration of the Fixed Location Food
Truck operation and a general description of the foods or beverages to be
served. The application shall also describe the nature of the event (whether
private or public), and shall include written documentation evidencing the
property owner's consent to the operation of the Fixed Location Food Truck. No
Fixed Location Food Truck shall be operated from any publicly-owned property,
except with the written approval of the Village Manager.
         d.   A copy of the Kane County Health Department approval for
operation of the Fixed Location Food Truck, along with their required
inspection reports. If the inspection report and/or approval are not available
at the time of application for Village licensure, the operator may provide a
copy of the application for Kane County Health Department approval, and may
obtain a conditional Village license, conditioned in Health Department final
inspection and approval.
         e.   Such other information as the Chief of Police may require,
including a criminal background check, if appropriate.
         f.   At the time of filing the application for a Fixed Location Food
Truck license under subsection
4-5-13(DD), the operator of such vehicle shall pay either a nonrefundable
monthly fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for such license which shall expire
thirty (30) days from its issuance or a nonrefundable one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) annual fee for such license which shall expire at the end of the
calendar year in which it is issued, to cover the Village’s administrative
costs in reviewing and approving or rejecting the license application.
      2.   The Village shall review the application and confirm that the
activity is lawful within the area proposed by the applicant. For short-term
(duration of 6 hours or less) private Fixed Location Food Truck events
conducted wholly on private property, the Village shall consider such use to be
accessory to the primary zoning allowed on any property. For operation of Fixed
Location Food Trucks for public events, for sales to the general public, or for
longer durations of time, the use must be a permitted zoning use within the
zoning classification of the property in question. No sales to the general
public shall be permitted as a home occupation, nor from a property zoned
strictly for residential purposes.
      3.   Licenses applied for hereunder shall also be reviewed by the Village
to confirm their compliance with applicable laws, to confirm that the proposed
activities do not present a public safety hazard, and to confirm that the
operator is eligible for licensure. Operators who demonstrate past history of
non-compliance with applicable regulations or ordinances may be subject to
license rejection.
      4.   The Chief of Police shall review all such applications and shall
approve or deny the license contemplated herein.
      5.   Where a Fixed Location Food Truck operator proposes to operate from
the premises of a business presently registered for payment of the Village's
Prepared Foods Tax, the premises owner/registered payor ("Owner") may apply to
the Village in writing to permit the operation of the Fixed Location Food Truck
from their premises. The Owner shall provide information of the same nature as
contemplated above, and shall confirm, in writing, that the Owner shall be
responsible for collecting and remitting Prepared Foods Tax to the Village, as
well as ensuring the lawful operation of the Fixed Location Food Truck
(including its lawful location under applicable zoning laws, and including the
successful completion of all required County Health Department inspections).
The Owner shall also confirm that the Fixed Location Food Truck operator remits
all sales taxes accruing to the Village, under State law. In such instance, the
Owner shall remit to the Village a copy of such documentation as is required to
evidence compliance with the Prepared Foods Tax by the operator, including but
not limited to state sales tax reporting and/or revenue reports showing sales
within the Village. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-O-32, 9-3-2019;
Ord. 2020-O-27, 9-8-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 730 ILCS 150/1 et seq., as may be modified from time to time.
4-5-14: APPROACH TO FOOD OR BEVERAGE VENDING VEHICLE:
Any person operating any motor vehicle, upon approaching a food or beverage
vending vehicle which is stopped or parked within the Village with its amber
lights flashing and sign displayed as described in section
4-5-13 of this chapter, shall reduce the speed of his or her vehicle to a speed
which is safe for the conditions and the presence of any pedestrian traffic,
not in excess of fifteen (15) mph, while within three hundred feet (300') of
said food or beverage vending vehicle. If there appear to be pedestrians
engaging in retail sales at such food or beverage vending vehicle, each vehicle
approaching shall come to a complete stop within twenty five feet (25') of said
food or beverage vending vehicle, and shall proceed past said food or beverage
vending vehicle with due caution for all pedestrian, bicycle and foot traffic.
(Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-15: HANDBILL DEFINITIONS:
Words singular in form may include the plural; any words plural in form may
include the singular; and words in the masculine gender shall include the
feminine and neuter genders. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used
in this chapter, have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
BILLPOSTER: Any person engaging in the business for hire of posting, fastening,
nailing, or otherwise affixing any written, painted, or printed matter of any
kind, or other form or reproduction thereof (hereinafter called "sign"),
containing a message or information of any kind whatsoever, to any outdoor
billboard or door; or upon any bridge, fence, pole, post, sidewalk, or tree; or
to or upon the exterior of any other structure; except, that the terms of this
definition shall not apply to nor include any such sign mounted on, fastened
to, or suspended from the outside of any building or other structure in
accordance with and authorized by any provisions of an ordinance or statute,
either for any public convenience or use, or regulating the construction or use
of so called outdoor display signs, whether such display signs are illuminated
or not.
COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or
otherwise reduced original or copies of any matter or literature:
Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or thing; or
Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical performance,
exhibition, or event of any kind, for the purpose of private gain or profit;
but the terms of this subsection shall not apply where an admission fee is
charged or a collection is taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses
incident to such meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any
kind, when either of the same is held, given or takes place in connection with
the dissemination of information which is not restricted under the ordinary
rules of decency, good morals, public peace, safety and good order; provided
further, that nothing contained in this subsection shall be deemed to authorize
the holding, giving, or taking place of any meeting, theatrical performance,
exhibition, or event of any kind without a license, where such license is or
may be required by any law of this State or under any ordinance of the Village;
or
Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter, is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes, or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor; or
Which is not covered by the definition of sign as found in the definition of
"billposter" in this section.
HANDBILL DISTRIBUTOR: Any person engaging or engaged in the business for hire
or gain of distributing commercial or noncommercial handbills, other than
newspapers distributed to subscribers thereof, and any person receiving
compensation directly or indirectly for the distribution of such handbills.
NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law, any
newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United States, in
accordance with Federal Statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and
recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law and, in addition
thereto, means and includes any periodical or current magazine regularly
published with not less than four (4) issues per year, and sold to the public.
NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper booklet, or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or
literature not included in the definition of a sign, as found in the definition
of "billposter", "commercial handbill" or "newspaper" in this section.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PRIVATE PREMISES: Any dwelling, house, building, or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and includes
any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging
or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building, or other structure.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, boulevards, avenues, lanes, alleys, or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, plazas, grounds and
buildings. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-16: PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   No person shall post, stick, stamp, paint or otherwise fix, or cause
the same to be done by any person, any notice, placard, bill, card, poster,
advertisement or other paper or device calculated to attract the attention of
the public, to or upon any sidewalk, crosswalk, curb, curbstone, flagstone, or
any other portion or part of any public way or public place, or any lamppost,
electric light, telegraph or telephone pole, railway structure, hydrant, shade
tree or tree box, or upon the piers, columns, trusses, girders, railings,
gates, or other parts of any public bridge or viaduct, or other public
structure or building, or upon any pole or box or public trash can, except such
as may be authorized or required by the laws of the United States or the State
and the ordinances of the Village.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast
any commercial handbill in or upon any public place within the Village, and it
is also unlawful for any person to hand out or distribute or sell any
commercial handbill in any public place; provided, however, that it is not
unlawful for any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver thereof, any noncommercial handbill in any public place to any person
willing to accept such noncommercial handbill. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-17: PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Uninhabited, Vacant Premises: It is unlawful for any person to
distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter, or cast any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any private premises which is temporarily or
continuously uninhabited or vacant.
   B.   Inhabited Private Premises: No person licensed under the provisions of
this chapter or any other person shall distribute, deposit, place, throw,
scatter, or cast any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any
private premises which is inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such
handbill directly to the owner, occupant, or any other person then present in
or upon such private premises; provided, however, that in case of inhabited
private premises which are not posted as provided in this chapter, the
aforesaid licensed or other person, unless requested by anyone upon such
premises not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such
inhabited private premises, if such handbill is so placed or deposited as to
secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises
or elsewhere; except, that mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited by
Federal laws or regulations. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
   C.   Canvassing And Soliciting On Private Streets: It shall be unlawful to
enter upon any private property whether comprised of streets, parking lots or
other open or developed space, where such area is maintained and operated as
privately owned and maintained streets and where the party responsible for
ownership and management of such area has designated the area as a no-
solicitation zone, when such entry is made for the purpose of any activity
regulated under this chapter. At the time of passage of this subsection, the
Carillon neighborhood is recognized to be an area where peddling and soliciting
are not permitted. (Ord. 2018-O-16, 7-2-2018)
4-5-18: POSTED PREMISES:
It is unlawful for any person to distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter, or
cast any commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any premises, if requested
by anyone thereon not to do so, or if there is placed on said premises, in a
conspicuous position near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words "No
Trespassing", "No Peddlers Or Agents", "No Advertisement", "No Postings", "Post
No Bills", or any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants
of said premises do not desire to be molested or to have their right of privacy
disturbed, or to have any such handbills left upon such premises. (Ord. 2017-O-
05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-19: VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter or
cast any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any automobile or
other vehicle. The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to prohibit
the handing, transmitting, or distributing of any noncommercial handbill to the
owner or other occupant of any automobile or other vehicle who is willing to
accept the same. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-20: OFFENSIVE MATERIALS:
It is unlawful for the owner, lessee, occupant, or agent of premises to permit
any person, whether licensed or acting under the terms of this chapter, or
otherwise, to post, affix, or otherwise attach to any building, structure, or
fixture, located upon such premises, whether such fixture is natural or
artificial, any poster or handbill containing any matter prohibited by the
terms of this chapter. It is unlawful for any person to post, hand out,
distribute, or transmit any sign or any commercial or noncommercial handbill:
a) which may reasonably tend to incite riot or other public disorder, or which
advocates disloyalty to or the overthrow of the government of the United States
or of this State by means of any artifice, scheme, or violence, or which urges
any unlawful conduct, or encourages or tends to encourage a breach of the
public peace or good order of the community; or, b) which is offensive to
public morals or decency, or which contains obscene language utilizing the
definition of obscene materials as contained herein or as contained in any
other provision of this Code. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-21: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
It is unlawful for any person to distribute, deposit, scatter, hand out, or
circulate any commercial or noncommercial handbill in any place, under any
circumstances, which does not have printed on the cover, front, or back
thereof, the name and address of the following: a) the name, address and
telephone number of the person who wrote, compiled or manufactured the same;
and, b) the name, address and telephone number of the person who distributed
the same. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-22: EXEMPTIONS APPLICABLE TO HANDBILLS:
The restrictions applicable to handbills as described herein shall not apply
to: a) the distribution of mail by the United States Postal Service; b) the
delivery of parcels or packages by a commercial carrier; c) the delivery of
newspapers as defined herein; d) the lawful placement of private signage or
advertising in accordance with all applicable codes and regulations; or, e) the
lawful placement of political or religious signage in accordance with
applicable laws and ordinances. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
4-5-23: PENALTIES:
A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be an unlawful ordinance
violation with a penalty of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day
that said violation is permitted to persist shall be a separate violation,
punishable by fine. In the case of recurrent conduct on a single day, in the
event a person is issued a citation for unlawful activity and, following the
issuance of said citation, re-engages in the same or substantially similar
unlawful conduct on that same day, each incident of conduct occurring after the
issuance of the original citation shall be a separate offense, punishable by an
individual fine. (Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-O-19, 10-2-2023)
CHAPTER 6
JUNK DEALERS AND JUNKYARDS
SECTION:
4-6-1: License Required
4-6-2: Application For License; Fees
4-6-3: Location
4-6-4: Vehicles
4-6-5: Lost Or Stolen Goods
4-6-6: Penalty
4-6-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate or carry on the business of junk dealer or to
keep any junk shop, store, or place for the purchase or sale of junk, rags, old
rope, paper, or bagging, or old iron, brass, copper, or empty bottles, without
first having secured a license therefor. (1990 Code §12.901)
4-6-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEES:
Applications for such licenses shall be made in conformance with the provisions
of chapter 1 of this title. The fee for such license shall be thirty dollars
($30.00) for an annual license and five dollars ($5.00) for a daily license.
(1990 Code §§12.902, 12.903)
4-6-3: LOCATION:
No junkyard shall be located on any premises unless there is compliance with
all the provisions of the zoning and other applicable ordinances. (1990 Code
§12.906)
4-6-4: VEHICLES:
Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his business shall bear
thereon, in legible characters, the name and address of the owner and
proprietor thereof. (1990 Code §12.905)
4-6-5: LOST OR STOLEN GOODS:
Every keeper of a junk shop who shall receive or be in possession of any goods,
articles, or things of value which may have been lost or stolen shall, upon
demand, produce such article or thing to any member of any authorized law
enforcement department for examination. (1990 Code §12.904)
4-6-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code §12.907; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TOBACCO PRODUCTS DEALERS
SECTION:
4-7-1: License Required
4-7-2: Application For License; Ineligibility
4-7-3: License Fee And Term
4-7-4: Sanitary Premises
4-7-5: Sales, Providing To Minors Prohibited
4-7-6: Penalty
4-7-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to sell or vend through machines or to engage in other retail
sales of tobacco products without having first obtained a license therefor.
(1990 Code §12.501; amd. 2011 Code)
4-7-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INELIGIBILITY:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the village clerk, and no such
license shall be issued to any person who is not a person of good character or
to any corporation that is not represented in the village by a person of good
character. (1990 Code §12.501)
4-7-3: LICENSE FEE AND TERM:
The annual fee for such license shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00). The
license shall be valid on May 1 and shall terminate on April 30 of the
following year. (1990 Code §12.502)
4-7-4: SANITARY PREMISES:
Premises and buildings used for the sale of tobacco products shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition. (1990 Code §12.503; amd. 2011 Code)
4-7-5: SALES, PROVIDING TO MINORS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to sell or give tobacco products to any male or female child
under twenty-one (21) years of age. (1990 Code § 12.504; amd. 2011 Code; Ord.
2019-O-20, 6-17-2019)
4-7-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code §12.505; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 8
DISTRIBUTING PRINTED MATTER
(Rep. by Ord. 2017-O-05, 3-20-2017)
CHAPTER 9
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISES
SECTION:
4-9-1: Title
4-9-2: Rules And Definitions
4-9-3: Authority To Grant Franchise; Term
4-9-4: Renewal Of Franchise
4-9-5: Termination Or Expiration Of Franchise
4-9-6: Transfer Procedure
4-9-7: Franchise Territory
4-9-8: Subscriber Privacy
4-9-9: Technical Performance
4-9-10: Subscriber Service
4-9-11: Rates; Waivers
4-9-12: Written Description Of System
4-9-13: Construction, Maintenance And Street Occupancy
4-9-14: Indemnification
4-9-15: Bond, Security Fund And Subscriber Rebates
4-9-16: Franchise Fee And Financial Reporting
4-9-17: Open Books And Records
4-9-18: Village Rights
4-9-19: Acceptance By Grantee
4-9-20: Interference With Other Signals Prohibited
4-9-21: Grantee Rules
4-9-22: Waiver Of Objections By Village
4-9-23: No Recourse By Grantee
4-9-24: Work Performed By Others
4-9-25: Publication Costs And Legal Fees
4-9-26: Prohibited Activities
4-9-27: Amendments
4-9-28: Severability
4-9-29: Contesting Validity
4-9-30: Penalties
4-9-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-2: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number.
BOARD: The present governing body of the village or any future body
constituting the legislative body of the village.
CABLE: Coaxial cables, waveguides or other conductors and equipment for
providing television service by cable or through its facilities as herein
contemplated, and including closed circuit special event programs and
educational television.
GRANTEE: A person or entity to whom or which a franchise under this chapter is
granted by the board and the lawful successors or assigns of such person or
entity.
GROSS REVENUES: Any revenue derived directly or indirectly by a grantee, its
affiliates, subsidiaries, parents and any persons or entities, in which a
grantee has a financial interest of five percent (5%) or more from or in
connection with the operation of a Pingree Grove cable system including, but
not limited to, basic subscriber service monthly fees, pay cable fees,
installation and reconnection fees, leased channel fees, converter rentals,
enhanced telecommunications services, studio rental, production equipment
rental and advertising revenues. The term does not include any taxes on
services furnished by grantee and imposed directly upon any subscriber or used
by the state, village or other governmental unit and collected by grantee on
behalf of said governmental unit.
STREET: The surface of and space above and below any public street, road,
highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway or drive, now or
hereafter existing as such within the village.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person or entity receiving, for any purpose, the services of a
grantee herein.
VILLAGE: The village of Pingree Grove, state of Illinois, in its present
incorporated form or in any later recognized, consolidated, enlarged or
reincorporated form. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-3: AUTHORITY TO GRANT FRANCHISE; TERM:
This chapter allows the village to grant to a franchise grantee, its successors
and assigns, a nonexclusive license to install, maintain, and operate a cable
television system for the distribution of television signals, frequency
modulated radio signals and closed circuit television programs for a term of
fifteen (15) years; provided, that the franchise grantee conforms to the
conditions, limitations and requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-
1991)
4-9-4: RENEWAL OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   A grantee shall have the right to apply to the village for renewal or
extension of the franchise. The village shall grant such renewal or extension
application unless it finds that:
      1.   The grantee has not substantially complied with the material terms
of this chapter and with applicable law, or its officers have been convicted of
a felony; or
      2.   The legal, technical or financial qualifications of the grantee are
inadequate to provide the services proposed thereby; or
      3.   The services and facilities to be provided by the grantee are
unreasonable in light of the community need for and cost of such services and
facilities; or
      4.   The service quality of the cable system has not been reasonable in
light of community needs; or
      5.   The proposals contained in the renewal application are otherwise
unreasonable.
   B.   A grantee must file for renewal at least thirty (30) months before the
expiration of the franchise. The village:
      1.   Must consider the renewal application within one hundred twenty
(120) days of submission of the application and conduct any proceedings
necessary to adequately consider the application; and
      2.   May not request, accept or consider any other franchise application
until the grantee's application is denied or approved.
   C.   The village shall:
      1.   Negotiate in good faith with the grantee regarding the franchise
renewal within sixty (60) days after the completion of proceedings pursuant to
subsection B of this section; and
      2.   Make a preliminary decision on granting or denying renewal within
four (4) months after receipt of all information necessary for evaluation of an
application. If the village denies an application, it must notify the grantee
by written statement, within seven (7) days after its decision, of the reasons
for the denial.
   D.   The grantee, if adversely affected or aggrieved by a decision of the
village made pursuant to this section, may appeal such decision in any court of
competent jurisdiction. The franchise shall remain in effect pending the
completion of such appeal.
   E.   Both the village and grantee shall comply with all the provisions of
section 626 of the cable communications policy act of 1984 1  regarding renewal
procedures. In the event that the act or a relevant section thereof changes,
the village shall conduct renewal procedures in accordance with then applicable
law. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 USCA § 626.
4-9-5: TERMINATION OR EXPIRATION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Should a grantee, its successors or assigns violate any of the
provisions of this chapter or any reasonable rules and regulations hereto or
any other applicable state or federal laws, rules or regulations, and should
such violation continue for more than thirty (30) days after the village has
given grantee written notice of such violation, failure or default, the same
shall be cause for the forfeiture or revocation of the franchise or license
granted, and the termination of all of grantee's rights hereunder; provided,
however, that delay in correcting such violation which is caused by factors
beyond the control of grantee shall not be included in computing the length of
the continuance of such violation.
   B.   In the event of bankruptcy, insolvency or receivership of a grantee,
all rights herein given to the grantee shall, at the option of the village, be
forfeited and terminated.
   C.   In the event a grantee attempts to or does practice any fraud or deceit
in its application for, acceptance of or conduct of relations under the license
or franchise granted, or its conduct or relations with customers or potential
customers, all rights given herein to the grantee shall, at the option of the
village, be forfeited and terminated.
   D.   In the event that a franchise or license granted hereunder has been
terminated or has expired, the village shall have options, to the extent then
permitted by law, to purchase the tangible assets of the grantee's cable
television system previously governed by the franchise at its fair market
value, to assign such rights to purchase, or to require removal of all
grantee's property located within the public ways and private property of the
village at the grantee's expense. The village shall notify grantee within
ninety (90) days of termination or expiration of its election. Grantee shall
have ninety (90) days thereafter in which to comply with the village's elected
option. Should grantee be required to remove its system, grantee shall refill
and compact, at its own expense, any excavation that shall be made thereby and
shall leave all streets and public and private property in as good condition as
that prevailing prior to the removal of the system and conforming to current
minimum standards in effect in the village and county without effecting,
altering or disturbing in any way electric, telephone or other utility cables,
wires or attachments. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-6: TRANSFER PROCEDURE:
All of the rights and privileges and all the obligations, duties and
liabilities created by this chapter shall pass to and be binding upon the
successors of the village and the successors and assigns of any grantee, and
the same shall not be assigned or transferred without the written approval of
the village hereunder. This approval shall not be unreasonably withheld without
a showing of good cause; provided, however, that this section shall not prevent
the assignment or pledge of a franchise or system by a grantee as security for
debt without such approval; and provided further, that transfers or assignments
of a franchise between any parent and subsidiary corporation or between
entities of which at least fifty one percent (51%) of the beneficial ownership
is held by the grantee or any parent corporation shall be permitted without the
prior approval of the village. The sale, transfer or assignment of at least
five percent (5%) of the tangible assets of a grantee to an unrelated third
party shall be considered an assignment subject to the provisions of this
section.
   A.   The parties to the sale or transfer of a franchise shall make a written
request to the village for its approval of a sale or transfer of the franchise.
   B.   The village shall reply in writing within thirty (30) days of the
request and shall indicate approval of the request or its determination that a
public hearing is necessary due to potential adverse effect on the franchise
subscribers.
   C.   If a public hearing is deemed necessary pursuant to subsection B of
this section, the village shall conduct such hearing within thirty (30) days of
such determination, and notice of any such hearing shall be given fourteen (14)
days prior to the hearing by publishing notice thereof once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the area being served by the franchise. The notice shall
contain the date, time and place of the hearing and shall briefly state the
substance of the action to be considered by the village.
   D.   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing, the village shall
approve or deny in writing the sale or transfer request.
   E.   The parties to the sale or transfer of a franchise only, without the
inclusion of a cable communications system in which at least substantial
construction has commenced, shall establish that the sale or transfer of a
franchise only will be in the public interest.
   F.   A grantee, upon transfer, shall, within fifteen (15) days thereafter,
file with the village a copy of the deed, agreement or other written instrument
evidencing such sale, transfer of ownership or control or lease, certified and
sworn to as correct by the grantee. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-7: FRANCHISE TERRITORY:
Any franchise is for the present territorial limits of the village. For any
area added to the franchise territory during the term of the franchise, service
shall be extended at not more than the standard installation fee wherever
household density reaches thirty (30) homes per mile, including interconnecting
trunks. The franchise territory may be extended at lower densities at the
discretion of the grantee. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-8: SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY:
   A.   No monitoring of any terminal connected to the system shall take place
without specific written authorization by the user of the terminal in question
on each occasion and on written notice to the village.
   B.   A grantee shall not, except as required by governmental action, provide
any data concerning specific subscribers or users or their use of subscriber
services without first securing written authorization from the subscribers or
users.
   C.   Subscribers and users shall retain the right to deactivate their
terminals, but shall continue to be responsible for charges until the grantee
is notified to terminate service. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-9: TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE:
The cable system shall be operated to comply with all guidelines and standards
set by the FCC for signal quality and leakage. The village reserves the right
to test the system and independently measure the signal quality. The village
also reserves the right to establish stricter guidelines and standards if
allowed by federal law. The system shall comply at all times with the national
electrical code of the National Fire Protection Association. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-
19-1991)
4-9-10: SUBSCRIBER SERVICE:
   A.   A grantee shall be required to maintain a local office within a
distance established by the village and specified in the franchise, and shall
provide access to a local telephone number for programming questions and
service requests.
   B.   The grantee shall provide a local line, either staffed or with
answering capabilities, available twenty four (24) hours a day.
   C.   During standard business working hours, the grantee's office must be
open and able to accept payments, exchange or accept return of converters,
schedule and conduct service or technician calls, and answer subscriber
inquiries. On weekends, these activities may occur in the field.
   D.   The grantee shall answer service requests within twenty four (24)
hours, excluding weekends and holidays. Problems should be rectified in forty
eight (48) hours or, in case of a dispute, in fewer than thirty (30) days.
Customers shall be able to request from the grantee that a service visit occur
during a four (4) hour block of time in either the morning or the afternoon.
(Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-11: RATES; WAIVERS:
   A.   Reasonable Rates; Changes: Rates charged by a grantee for service
hereunder shall be fair and reasonable. The grantee shall not engage, directly
or indirectly, in any sales or service of individual television sets. Before
any service is sold to any customer, the grantee shall file with the village
clerk its schedule of rates for installation and monthly service charges,
together with a statement of the rights and obligations of subscribers.
Subsequent additions or amendments to rates and service charges shall likewise
be filed with the village clerk before the same become effective.
   B.   Waivers:
      1.   During the term of a franchise, the grantee shall provide free
service to any and all schools, whether private, public or parochial, and to
fire stations within the area of the franchise. Grantee may charge for usual
installation costs.
      2.   The grantee shall provide at least one dedicated, noncommercial
public access channel and associated production equipment to be made available
to the public at all times on a nondiscriminatory basis. The grantee shall not
be responsible for the production costs of the dedicated, noncommercial public
access channel. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-12: WRITTEN DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM:
A grantee shall, as part of the acceptance of a franchise, provide a complete
written description of the cable system in the village. Such written
description shall be updated as additions or changes are made. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-
19-1991)
4-9-13: CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND STREET OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Use: All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by a grantee within the village shall be so located as not to cause
interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public ways and
places, and not to cause interference with the rights of or reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the streets, alleys or other
public ways and places. Wherever any electrical or telephone or other utility
lines to any subscribers are buried underground, the company shall be required
to so bury its cable. The location of all such structures, lines and equipment
erected by the company and a map of any underground improvements shall be
provided to the village. Any satellite dishes, structures or other apparatus
the company erects for the purpose of receiving or transmitting any signals for
the company system shall be erected only on property which is zoned for such
permissible uses under the applicable village zoning ordinances then in effect.
   B.   Construction: Grantee shall construct its cable system using material
of good and durable quality, and all work involved in the construction,
installation, maintenance and repair of the cable system shall be performed in
a safe, thorough and reliable manner. Any municipal or private property damaged
or destroyed shall be properly repaired or replaced by grantee and restored to
serviceable condition. The village shall have the right to approve all
construction and improvements to be made by grantee to the cable system prior
to initiation of any construction or repairs to the system.
   C.   Restoration: In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway
or other surfacing, the grantee shall first give notice to the village of any
contemplated disturbances of pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other surfacing,
and shall, at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the village,
replace and restore all pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other surface of any
street or alley disturbed in as good condition as before such work commenced.
The grantee shall otherwise comply with village ordinances relating to street
openings.
   D.   Relocation: If, at any time during the period of a franchise, the
village shall elect to alter or change the location or grade of any street,
alley or other public way, the grantee, upon reasonable notice by the village,
shall remove, relay and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground
conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own expense. If any construction
by the grantee is in violation of the provisions of subsection A of this
section, the grantee shall likewise, upon reasonable notice by the village,
remove, relay and relocate its property in such a manner as to remedy such
violation at its own expense.
   E.   Placement Of Fixtures: The grantee shall not place poles or other
fixtures where the same will interfere with any gas, electric, telephone or
other fixture, water hydrant or main. All such poles or other fixtures placed
in any street shall be placed between the outer edge of the sidewalk and the
curb line, and those placed in alleys shall be placed close to the line of the
lot abutting on such alley in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual
travel on the streets, alleys and public ways. However, nothing in this chapter
shall prohibit the use by the grantee of existing public utility poles where
practical, provided mutually satisfactory rental agreements can be entered into
with the grantee.
   F.   Temporary Removal Of Wire For Building Moving: A grantee shall, on the
request of any person holding a building moving permit issued by the village,
temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of buildings. The
expenses of such temporary raising or lowering of the wires shall be paid by
the person requesting the same, and the grantee may require such payment in
advance. The grantee shall be given not less than forty eight (48) hours'
advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   G.   Tree Trimming: The grantee, to the same extent that the village has
such authority, may trim trees that overhang streets, alleys, sidewalks and
public places of the village so as to prevent the branches of such trees from
coming in contact with the wires and cables of the grantee.
   H.   Service To Public Buildings: Grantee shall provide, upon request and
without charge, service to any municipal buildings owned and operated by the
village, to any public, elementary or secondary school, to any parochial school
located in the village and to any building owned and operated by a local fire
prevention district located within the village where cable is already installed
to service others. The cost of any internal wiring shall be borne by the
institution.
   I.   Expansion Of System: In the event the village annexes further territory
as permitted by law, grantee shall extend cable service to remaining portions
of the village so annexed within a reasonable time thereafter, not to exceed
one year, unless additional time is granted by the village board upon request
of grantee for a good cause shown. Any such extension of service shall be
subject to all other applicable provisions contained in this chapter.
   J.   Easements: Upon grant of a franchise to construct and maintain a cable
television system pursuant to this chapter, grantee may obtain right of way
permits from appropriate state, county and federal officials necessary to cross
highways or roads to supply main trunk lines from grantee's receiving antennas.
No construction shall commence on easements on private property without at
least forty eight (48) hours' notice in advance given by personal notice to
each owner or occupant of such private property. If permission for easement
access is required, such permission to construct a cable plant shall not be
unreasonably withheld by the property owner. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-14: INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   The grantee shall defend and save the village and its agents and
employees harmless from all claims, damages, losses, and expenses including
attorney fees sustained by the village on account of any suit, judgment,
execution, claim or demand whatsoever arising out of:
      1.   The enactment of this chapter and granting of a franchise hereunder,
including such claims as may arise from the village selection of a grantee to
be awarded a franchise pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   The installation, operation or maintenance of the cable system.
   B.   The village shall notify the grantee within twenty (20) days after the
presentation of any claim or demand, either by suit or otherwise, made against
the village on the part of the grantee. The grantee shall furnish to the
village, before any franchise becomes effective, satisfactory evidence in
writing that the grantee has in force and will maintain in force during the
term of the franchise public liability insurance.
   C.   All grantees shall maintain throughout the term of the permit a general
comprehensive liability insurance policy naming, as additional insured, the
village and its officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees, in a
company approved by the village board and in a form satisfactory to the village
attorney. The policy shall protect the village and its agencies and employees
against liability for loss or damage for personal injury, death or property
damage occasioned by the operations of grantee under any franchise granted
hereunder in the amounts of: 1) one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for bodily
injury or death to any one person, with the limit however of five million
dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death resulting from any one
accident; and 2) five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for property
damage resulting from any one accident. The village shall be named as an
additional insured under such insurance, and a copy of the current in force
policy shall be deposited with the village clerk.
   D.   All grantees shall maintain workers' compensation insurance with
statutory limits, and employer's liability insurance with limits of not less
than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), which shall cover all
operations to be performed by grantee as a result of this chapter. (Ord. 1991-
1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-15: BOND, SECURITY FUND AND SUBSCRIBER REBATES:
   A.   Bond: Prior to the construction of a cable system, the grantee shall
file with the village a performance bond in the amount of fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00).
   B.   Security Fund:
      1.   At the time a franchise is accepted, the grantee shall deposit into
a bank account established by the village and maintain on deposit through the
term of the franchise the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00)
as a common security fund for the faithful performance by the grantee of all
the provisions of the franchise. Interest accrued on this deposit shall be paid
to the grantee on an annual basis.
      2.   Provision shall be made to permit the village to withdraw funds from
the security fund.
      3.   The grantee shall not use the security fund for other purposes and
shall not assign, pledge or otherwise use the security fund as security for any
purpose.
      4.   Within ten (10) days after notice thereto that any amount has been
withdrawn by the village from the security fund pursuant to this subsection,
the grantee shall deposit a sum of money sufficient to restore such security
fund to the required amount. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
   C.   Subscriber Rebates: A grantee is not responsible for failure to provide
adequate service caused by acts of God or acts of nature, strikes, governmental
or military action, or other conditions beyond its control including the lack
of material or parts. Upon interruption of service, except for acts of God or
acts of nature or with express prior permission of the village, the following
shall apply: (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991; amd. 2011 Code)
      1.   Over forty eight (48) hours and up to seven (7) days, a fifty
percent (50%) rebate of one month's fees for all affected subscribers.
      2.   A full month's rebate for any month in which one week or more of the
service is interrupted. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-16: FRANCHISE FEE AND FINANCIAL REPORTING:
   A.   As compensation for permission to use the streets and public ways of
the village for the construction, operation, maintenance, modification, and
reconstruction of a cable system, and for the village costs in establishing a
regulatory program for a grantee, the grantee shall pay to the village each
year an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the grantee's gross annual
receipts, unless a higher amount is approved by federal law.
   B.   No acceptance of the village of any franchise fee shall be construed as
a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim the village may have
for further or additional sums payable as a franchise fee or for the
performance of any other obligation of the grantee.
   C.   No later than April 15 of each year, the grantee shall present to the
village an annual report of system finances which shall include gross revenues
from all sources, operating expenses, net income and an end of year balance
sheet. The franchise fee amount shall be derived from this report and shall be
paid with its submission. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-17: OPEN BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Any grantee shall manage all of its operations in accordance with the policy of
totally open books and records, vis-a-vis, the village. The authorized officers
and staff of the village shall have the right to inspect, upon notice, during
normal business hours, all books, records, maps, plans, income tax returns,
financial statements, service complaint logs, performance test results, records
of request for service and other like materials of the grantee that relate to
the operation of the franchise. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-18: VILLAGE RIGHTS:
   A.   Village Rules: The right is hereby reserved to the village to adopt, in
addition to the provisions contained in this chapter and existing applicable
ordinances, such additional regulations as it shall find necessary in the
exercise of its police powers. Such regulations, by ordinance or otherwise,
shall be reasonable and not be in conflict with the rights granted in this
chapter and shall not be in conflict with the laws of the state.
   B.   Use Of System By Village: The village may, during the term of a
franchise, free of charge, where aerial construction exists, maintain upon the
poles of the grantee within the village limits wire and pole fixtures necessary
for a police and fire alarm system; such wires and fixtures to be constructed
and maintained to the satisfaction of the grantee and in accordance with its
specifications.
   C.   Emergency: In the case of any emergency, a grantee shall, upon request
of the village, make available its facilities to the village for emergency use
during any emergency period.
   D.   Inspection: The village may inspect all construction or installation
work during such construction or installation, or at any time after completion
thereof, in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
all other governing ordinances.
   E.   Liability: The village shall not be liable for any damage occurring to
the property of a grantee caused by employees of the village in the performance
of their duties. The village shall not be liable for the interruption of
service by actions of village employees in the performance of their duties, nor
shall the village be held liable for the failure of a grantee to be able to
perform normal services due to other factors beyond the control of the village.
   F.   No Property Right: Nothing in this chapter shall grant to a grantee any
right of property in the village owned property.
   G.   Construction Approval By Village: A grantee shall not erect any pole,
install any underground lines or conduits, run any line, or make any
attachment, nor shall any construction of any kind be commenced on public
property or within any public or utility easement without the prior approval of
the village, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld; and the village
shall have the right to inspect the construction, operation and maintenance of
the entire cable television system, or any portion thereof, constructed by the
grantee to ensure proper compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in
this chapter.
   H.   Correction Of Defects: In the event a grantee should violate any of the
terms of this regulatory chapter, the village shall immediately give to said
grantee thirty (30) days' written notice to correct such violation; and in the
event the grantee does not make such correction within thirty (30) days from
the receipt of such written notice, the village may make such correction itself
and charge the cost of same to the company, and the village may deduct the cost
thereof from the security fund, or the grantee shall otherwise pay such
charges. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-19: ACCEPTANCE BY GRANTEE:
Any franchise granted under this chapter shall be effective upon written
acceptance of the franchise, along with the proof of insurance and any other
required documents and bonds, being filed with the village clerk. The filing
shall occur within thirty (30) days of the notification of an offer of a
franchise by the village, and the franchise shall continue in force for a
period of fifteen (15) years or such other period as established by the village
from the date of acceptance. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-20: INTERFERENCE WITH OTHER SIGNALS PROHIBITED:
A grantee shall at all times keep its cables and other appurtenances used for
transmitting signals shielded in such a manner that there will be no
interference with signals received by electronic equipment not connected to the
grantee's service. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-21: GRANTEE RULES:
A grantee may promulgate such rules, regulations, terms and conditions
governing the conduct of its business as shall be reasonably necessary to
enable the grantee to exercise its rights and perform its obligations under the
franchise and to assure uninterrupted service to all its subscribers. However,
such rules, regulations, terms and conditions shall not be in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter or the laws of the state. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-22: WAIVER OF OBJECTIONS BY VILLAGE:
By the adoption of this chapter, the village expressly waives all objections it
has or may have to the legal rights of the grantee to attach its cables,
equipment and transmission lines to the poles of the village or to the poles of
the public utilities pursuant to the negotiation of an agreement and the
authority of such public utilities to grant such right to the grantee. (Ord.
1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-23: NO RECOURSE BY GRANTEE:
   A.   A grantee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the village for any
loss, cost or expense, or damage arising out of any provisions or requirements
of a franchise or because of the enforcement thereof by the village, or for the
failure of the village to have authority to grant all or any part of the
franchise.
   B.   Grantee expressly acknowledges that in accepting any franchise, it does
so relying on its own investigation and understanding of the power and
authority of the village to grant the franchise.
   C.   By accepting a franchise, a grantee acknowledges that it has not been
induced to enter into the franchise by any understanding or promise or other
statement, whether verbal or written, by or on behalf of the village or by any
other third person concerning any term or condition of the franchise not
expressed herein.
   D.   The grantee further acknowledges, by acceptance of the franchise, that
it has carefully read the terms and conditions hereof and is willing to and
does accept all the risks of the meeting of such terms and conditions and
agrees that in the event of any ambiguity therein or in the event of any
dispute over the meaning thereof, the same shall be construed strictly against
the grantee and in favor of the village. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-24: WORK PERFORMED BY OTHERS:
Grantee shall give prior notice to the village specifying the names and
addresses of any entity, other than the grantee, that performs services
pursuant to the franchise; provided, however, that all provisions of the
franchise remain the responsibility of the grantee. All provisions of any
franchise shall apply to any subcontractor or others performing any work or
services pursuant to the provisions of the franchise. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-25: PUBLICATION COSTS AND LEGAL FEES:
   A.   Grantee shall assume any and all costs of publication for the
publication of notices of any meetings or hearings as may be necessary to
comply with this chapter.
   B.   The grantee shall assume and pay and reimburse to the village all
legal, consultant, technical and auditing fees incurred by the village in
connection with the investigation, negotiation and granting of any franchise or
license to a grantee under the terms of this chapter. Grantee shall assume and
pay and reimburse to the village any and all legal, consultant, technical and
auditing fees and costs incurred by the village to enforce any terms or
provisions of this chapter, whether by institution of suit at law or in equity
in a court of competent jurisdiction or by any other methods utilized to
enforce the terms and provisions contained herein. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-26: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Grantee shall not allow its cable or other operations to interfere with
television reception of others or the operation of the various utilities
serving the village residents.
   B.   No person, whether or not a subscriber to the cable system may
intentionally or knowingly damage, or cause to be damaged, any wire, cable,
conduit, equipment or apparatus of a grantee, or commit any act with intent to
cause such damage, or to tamp, tamper with, or otherwise connect any wire or
device to a wire, cable, conduit, equipment and apparatus, or appurtenances of
a grantee with the intent to obtain a signal or impulse from the cable system
without authorization from or compensation to grantee, or to obtain cable
television or other communications service with intent to cheat or defraud
grantee of any lawful charge to which it is entitled. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-27: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the village through
the enactment of amendments hereto.
   B.   This franchise may be amended to incorporate all amendments to the
statutes, rules and regulations of the federal government as they are
promulgated by the federal government. Any provisions herein in conflict with
or preempted by said rules, regulations or statutes shall be superseded. (Ord.
1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-28: SEVERABILITY:
Should any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or portion of this chapter
and/or a franchise granted hereunder be declared invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of this
chapter and the franchise as a whole, but shall only affect the portion thereof
declared to be invalid; and the village board hereby expressly states and
declares that it would nonetheless have passed this chapter and granted the
franchise had it known that any such word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph
or portion of this chapter or franchise were invalid. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-29: CONTESTING VALIDITY:
Grantee agrees by acceptance of a franchise that it will not at any time set up
against the village in a claim for proceeding any condition or term of the
franchise as unreasonable, arbitrary or void, or that the village had no power
or authority to make such term or condition, but shall be required to accept
the validity of the terms and conditions of the franchise in their entirety.
(Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-1991)
4-9-30: PENALTIES:
Any violation by a grantee, its vendor, lessee or successor, of any provision
of this chapter or of any provisions of a franchise or any material portion or
portions thereof, or the failure promptly to perform any of the provisions
thereof, shall, after prior written notice is given to the grantee, cause the
grantee to be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) a day for each such violation or offense. At
the option of the village, said fine shall be paid from the security fund until
proper correction is made. The village further reserves the right to otherwise
forfeit or terminate a franchise or to take any other remedial or corrective
action for any violation whatsoever of a franchise or the terms and provisions
of this chapter as otherwise set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 1991-1, 3-19-
1991; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 10
GARAGE SALES
SECTION:
4-10-1: Definitions
4-10-2: Permit Requirements
4-10-3: Duration And Hours Of Sale
4-10-4: Prohibited Conduct
4-10-5: Exemptions
4-10-6: Penalty
4-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, a "garage sale" (also commonly known as a "yard
sale" or "rummage sale") shall be defined as the sale of tangible, personal or
household property at a property utilized for residential purposes, or on
property zoned at least partially under residential/heritage zoning, which sale
is open to the public, or other similar or related activities which are
commonly defined as a "garage sale". (Ord. 2009-20, 7-6-2009)
4-10-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Fee: It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a
garage sale in the village without first applying for and obtaining from the
village a permit to do so to be known as a garage sale permit. The fee for such
permit shall be five dollars ($5.00), or such other amount as the village
manager shall require from time to time.
   B.   Application For Permit: The information to be filed with the permit
application shall be as described below, or such other information as the
village manager shall require from time to time:
      1.   Name of person, association or organization conducting said sale.
      2.   Name of owner of the property on which said sale is to be conducted
if the applicant is other than the owner.
      3.   Location at which the sale is to be conducted.
      4.   Dates of the sale.
      5.   Sworn statement or affirmation by the person signing, indicating: a)
that the information therein given is full and true and known to him or her to
be so; b) that the applicant has read and is familiar with the terms and
requirements of this chapter, and shall comply herewith; and c) an
acknowledgment that, by completing the permit application, the applicant has
consented to the right of entry of village employees and officers upon the
applicant's property at any time during the conduct of the garage sale for the
purpose of verifying compliance with this chapter and any other applicable
ordinances, codes, statutes or regulations.
   C.   Number And Duration Of Permits; Display Required: Such permit can be
issued to each mailing address within the village only twice within a twelve
(12) month period, and no such permit shall be issued for more than three (3)
consecutive calendar days. Each permit issued must be prominently displayed on
the premises upon which the garage sale is conducted throughout the entire
period of the permitted sale.
   D.   Cancellation Of Permit: In the event of a rainout or cancellation of
the sale due to weather, the permittee can notify the village before the start
of the sale to cancel the permit. In this event, the canceled sale will not be
counted against the maximum number of sales in subsection C of this section.
The permit fee for canceled events will not be refunded. Garage sales canceled
after the scheduled start date/time for any reason will be counted against the
maximum number of events. (Ord. 2009-20, 7-6-2009)
4-10-3: DURATION AND HOURS OF SALE:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to conduct or allow the conducting of a garage sale for more than three
(3) consecutive days and only between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day. (Ord. 2009-20, 7-6-2009)
4-10-4: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful:
   A.   To conduct a garage sale except in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter, and in accordance with a lawfully issued permit.
   B.   To use any sign or display except in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the village zoning ordinance/sign ordinance 1 .
   C.   To place or deposit any items, whether for sale or utilized as
advertisement (including signs), on any village right of way or other public
property.
   D.   To use loudspeakers, music, or other audible methods to advertise the
presence of a garage sale.
   E.   To sell, or to cause or permit to be sold, at a garage sale:
      1.   Any item whose sale, use or possession is prohibited within the
village, county or state.
      2.   Any item whose sale or possession is age restricted within the
village, county or state, including, but not limited to, alcoholic beverages,
tobacco products and food.
      3.   Any item whose purchase or ownership requires a local, state or
federal license, permit or application, including, but not limited to,
firearms, guns and explosive devices.
      4.   Any motor vehicle or item having a sale value in excess of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      5.   Any new item or item acquired solely for the purpose of resale.
      6.   Any item not owned by the applicant for the garage sale permit.
      7.   Any "weapon", defined herein as including, but not limited to, any
knife, razor, ice pick, gun, BB gun or other device that shoots a projectile,
metal knuckles, explosive of any kind, or any other object normally considered
to be a "weapon". In addition, any other object not normally considered to be a
"weapon" will be classified as such when used to threaten or cause bodily harm.
This subsection E7 includes any look alike objects that may have the appearance
of a weapon or dangerous instrument. For purposes of this chapter, sporting
goods, other than goods which shoot a projectile, shall not be considered a
"weapon". (Ord. 2009-20, 7-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  11-5-8 of this code.
4-10-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the following
persons or sales:
   A.   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials.
   C.   Any persons selling or advertising for sale an item or items of
personal property which are specifically named or described in the
advertisement and which separate items do not exceed five (5) in number
(provided, that such items shall be available for sale only through the
advertisement, and not via an open display or invitation to the public at the
premises).
   D.   Not for profit organizations, provided they file with the village
manager a request for exception, together with the name of the organization,
proof of its not for profit status, a description of the purpose of the sale,
and such other information as the village manager shall require.
   E.   Community wide garage sales sponsored, sanctioned or authorized by the
village. (Ord. 2009-20, 7-6-2009)
4-10-6: PENALTY:
Any person, association or corporation conducting any garage sale without the
proper permit therefor or who shall violate any of the other terms and
regulations of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-20, 7-6-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH AND SANITATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Acts Endangering Public Health Prohibited
5-1-2: Dangerous Buildings And Structures
5-1-3: Drinking Cups In Public Places
5-1-4: Water Pollution
5-1-5: Stagnant Pools Of Water
5-1-6: Noxious Odors
5-1-7: Dense Smoke
5-1-8: Spitting
5-1-9: Cemeteries And Burials
5-1-10: Public Toilet Facilities
5-1-11: Penalty
5-1-12: Drainage Impediments
5-1-1: ACTS ENDANGERING PUBLIC HEALTH PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to permit or do any act which endangers the public health. (1990
Code §13.108)
5-1-2: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES 1 :
It is unlawful to permit any building, structure, or place to remain in such a
condition as to be dangerous to the public health in any way. Any such
structure, building, or place is declared to be a nuisance. (1990 Code §13.107)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 10, chapter 6 of this code.
5-1-3: DRINKING CUPS IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It is unlawful to maintain any common drinking cup or cups, dipper or other
similar utensil for the use of more than one person in a public hall, theater,
store, or other place frequented by the public. (1990 Code §13.109)
5-1-4: WATER POLLUTION:
It is unlawful and a nuisance for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct
or pollute any watercourse or source of water supply in the village. (1990 Code
§13.103)
5-1-5: STAGNANT POOLS OF WATER:
Any stagnant pool of water in the village is declared to be a nuisance. It is
unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit any such nuisance to
remain or exist on any property under his or its control. (1990 Code §13.104)
5-1-6: NOXIOUS ODORS:
It is unlawful to cause or permit the emission of noxious odors from any fire,
chimney, waste disposal system, or any other agency in the village so as to
cause annoyance or discomfort to the residents thereof. (1990 Code §13.112)
5-1-7: DENSE SMOKE:
It is unlawful to cause or permit the emission of dense smoke from any fire,
chimney, engine, oil burner, or any other agency in the village so as to cause
annoyance and discomfort to the residents thereof; provided, however, that upon
obtaining appropriate permission from fire district officials, burning shall be
allowed in areas designated as wetlands for the purpose of maintaining,
preserving, and improving the quality of the wetland ecology. (1990 Code
§13.113)
5-1-8: SPITTING:
It is unlawful to spit or expectorate on any public sidewalk or other public
place, or on the floor or walls of any store, theater, hall, public vehicle, or
place frequented by the public or to which the public is invited. (1990 Code
§13.111)
5-1-9: CEMETERIES AND BURIALS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to establish a cemetery or
to bury any person within the village limits or within three-fourths (3/4) of a
mile thereof except in an established cemetery. (1990 Code §13.106)
5-1-10: PUBLIC TOILET FACILITIES:
   A.   Conditions: Any business establishment, firm, or association providing
toilet facilities for the general public shall maintain said facilities in a
clean and sanitary condition, in good repair, and well lighted and ventilated
by means of a mechanical fan or operable screened window, and the door to such
facility shall be self-closing. Adequate hand washing facilities, including
running water, soap, and sanitary towels or drying devices, shall be provided.
(1990 Code §13.501)
   B.   Installation: Installation of such facilities shall comply with village
regulations 1  and state statutes in effect. (1990 Code §13.502; amd. 2011
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
5-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed for each and every day during or on which a violation continues or
exists. (1990 Code §§13.114,13.503; amd. 2011 Code)
5-1-12: DRAINAGE IMPEDIMENTS:
   A.   Declared Public Nuisance: The village of Pingree Grove, pursuant to its
authority under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-60-2, 5/11-20-10, 5/11-20-
13, 5/11-30-2 and 5/11-30-8, among other authority, hereby declares "drainage
impediments" as defined herein to be prohibited, and to be a public nuisance
adversely impacting public health and safety.
   B.   Definition: "Drainage impediments" shall be defined herein as the
construction of any impediment or obstacle which obstructs, precludes, inhibits
or restricts the flow of drainage across any property within the corporate
limits of the village, or which obstructs the flow of stormwater as established
in the approved grading plans for any parcel or subdivision, without the prior
review and approval of a site plan contemplating and authorizing such
impediment. Drainage impediments shall include, but shall not be limited to,
the construction of any fence, earthen mound, wall or other impediment in a
drainageway or area that is designed, by virtue of its elevation or slope, to
serve as a drainageway.
      1.   When any fence is constructed in or over a drainageway, the bottom
of the fence shall be maintained at a minimum height approved by the public
works director, so as to maintain a clear flow of drainage water beneath the
fence. No obstruction shall be permitted or maintained beneath such minimum
height, in any fashion that obstructs the flow of drainage water. The public
works director may approve of the installation of an approved, removable
component of a fence that is installed in such a fashion as to not obstruct
drainage.
   C.   Enforcement: The village shall have the authority to enforce this
section and to abate any violation hereof.
      1.   The village may issue an ordinance violation citation for any
violation of this section, with a minimum fine as prescribed by this code for
each day or portion thereof that a violation is demonstrated to exist.
      2.   The village may seek a court order directing and authorizing the
abatement and removal of any drainage impediment. Such order may include an
order for the village to complete the removal of the drainage impediment and
the restoration of previous drainage conditions. The costs incurred herein
shall be recoverable from the owner of the real property on which the drainage
impediment is maintained, and/or lienable against the property. Such action to
abate a nuisance shall only be implemented after the village provides not less
than thirty (30) days' written notice via certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner of record of the property, affording an opportunity for
the owner to abate the nuisance.
      3.   The village may, in the case of a public safety emergency such as an
instance of flooding, take such action as shall be necessary to temporarily
restore drainage, including, but not limited to, removing drainage impediments,
without prior notice or due process.
   D.   Abatement Of Existing Drainage Impediments: At the time of passage
hereof, the village is aware of certain drainage impediments which were
installed without village authorization, in violation of the village's
building/fence codes, and without obtaining engineering review of proposed site
grading, as required by this code. The village shall notify any property
currently identified as being in violation of this code and shall afford such
property not less than ninety (90) days to abate the drainage impediment to the
satisfaction of the director of public works prior to initiating any court
action or imposing any fines or costs. (Ord. 2014-O-20, 11-3-2014)
CHAPTER 2
JUNK AND TRASH
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definition
5-2-2: Nuisance Declared And Prohibited
5-2-3: Violations; Notices And Investigations
5-2-4: Failure To Comply With Notice; Complaint Procedure
5-2-5: Prosecution Of Complaints
5-2-6: Violation; Penalties
5-2-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, "junk", "trash" and "refuse" are defined to
include any and all waste matter, whether reusable or not, which is offensive
to the public health, safety or aesthetics of the neighborhood and further
defined as any condition or use of any premises or building exteriors which is
detrimental to the property of others or which causes or which tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other properties in the neighborhood in
which said premises are located. The terms include, but are not limited to, the
keeping or depositing on or the scattering over the premises of any of the
following:
   A.   Lumber, junk, trash or debris.
   B.   Worn out, wrecked and/or abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors,
machinery of any kind, any parts thereof, old iceboxes, refrigerators, stoves,
furniture, freezers, cans or containers or any other abandoned, discarded or
unused objects 1 . A motor vehicle shall be deemed to be abandoned if it does
not have a current registration plate issued in accordance with the laws of the
state of Illinois. (1990 Code §13.115)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 7, chapter 8 of this code.
5-2-2: NUISANCE DECLARED AND PROHIBITED:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: The storing of junk, trash or refuse on private
property within the village not otherwise authorized under the provisions of
this code and in any manner not otherwise permitted by any applicable zoning
ordinance is declared a nuisance. (1990 Code §13.116)
   B.   Nuisance Prohibited:
      1.   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any
premises shall maintain or keep any junk, trash or refuse thereon or permit
said premises to be a nuisance, nor shall any person keep or maintain such
premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value of the other
properties located in the neighborhood in which the premises are located.
      2.   No person in charge of or in control of any premises, whether as
owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall maintain any junk, trash or
refuse thereon or keep any nuisance thereon for longer than ten (10) days,
except this subsection shall not apply with regard to any vehicle in an
enclosed building or so located upon the premises as not to be readily visible
from any public place or from any surrounding private property. (1990 Code
§13.117)
5-2-3: VIOLATIONS; NOTICES AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Observance Of Violation By Village Officer; Issuance Of Notice: Any
village officer observing any violation of subsection
5-2-2B of this chapter shall immediately notify the village manager who shall
issue a notice directed to the owner of record of the property on which said
nuisance occurs, as shown in the records of the county recorder of deeds, or to
the occupant of said property, or to both, which said notice shall describe the
violation and shall establish a reasonable time limit for the abatement thereof
by such owner or occupant, which time shall not be less than two (2) days nor
more than ten (10) days after service of such notice. (1990 Code §13.119; amd.
2011 Code)
   B.   Citizen's Affidavit Charging Violation; Investigation Procedure: Any
citizen of the village who observes a violation of subsection
5-2-2B of this chapter may file his affidavit setting forth in detail the
violation, its location, and the name of the owner and occupant of the property
on which such nuisance is alleged, and may file said affidavit with the village
clerk who shall notify the village manager. The village manager shall
investigate such charge, and if such nuisance exists, issue a notice to the
owner or occupant of the property as provided in subsection A of this section.
(1990 Code §13.120; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Procedure For Serving Notices: Any individual authorized to serve the
notice provided for in subsections A and B of this section shall serve said
notice upon the owner or occupant of the property on which such nuisance exists
or upon both of them, and shall, upon his return, make a copy of such notice,
showing the time of service, the person upon whom it was served, and the manner
in which it was served. The return of service shall be verified upon oath. In
the event personal service of said notice cannot be made upon said owner or
occupant of the property after at least three (3) separate attempts to serve
said individual at said location, then such notice shall be served upon said
owner or occupant, or both, by posting two (2) copies thereof conspicuously at
two (2) locations on said premises, and the return of service shall so indicate
that such service was made. (1990 Code §13.121)
   D.   Investigation Of Nuisance Abatement: Immediately upon the termination
of the time allowed in any such notice for the abatement of such nuisance, the
individual who served such notice, or any other individual authorized by the
village manager, shall investigate to determine whether or not such nuisance
has been abated. (1990 Code §13.122; amd. 2011 Code)
5-2-4: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE; COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
In the event the owner or occupant of the property where such nuisance exists
has failed within the prescribed time to abate such nuisance, then the
individual who filed an affidavit with the village clerk or the individual who
investigated whether such nuisance has been abated shall file a complaint with
the circuit court for the 16th judicial circuit, charging violation of section
5-2-2 of this chapter and demanding that the owner of the property or the
occupant thereof, or both, be punished as provided in section
5-2-6 of this chapter, and seeking injunctive or other equitable relief to
abate the nuisance. The owner or occupant thereof shall be obligated to
reimburse the village for all reasonable attorney fees and cost of suit and all
other expenses incurred by the village to abate said nuisance and collect all
monetary penalties, and a monetary judgment may enter in favor of the village
against said owner or occupant for the said amounts. (1990 Code §13.123)
5-2-5: PROSECUTION OF COMPLAINTS:
The village shall prosecute all complaints of violation of section
5-2-2 of this chapter. (1990 Code §13.124)
5-2-6: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any property owner or occupant of property who allows such storage as provided
in section
5-2-2 of this chapter on the property owned or occupied thereby shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and any person who neglects to abate and remove such
nuisance after notice thereof shall, for each twenty four (24) hours thereafter
during which said nuisance continues, be subject to a like penalty as that
originally incurred. (1990 Code §13.118; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Unlawful Deposits; Disposal Requirements
5-3-2-1: Household Refuse Disposal Requirements
5-3-3: Uncovered Garbage Prohibited
5-3-4: Windblown Refuse
5-3-5: Spilling Loads Prohibited
5-3-6: Combustible Refuse; Unlawful Storage And Deposit
5-3-7: Owner's Consent For Disposal
5-3-8: Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
ASHES: Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings.
GARBAGE: Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and
consumption of food, and wastes from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
REFUSE: Combustible trash including, but not limited to, paper, cartons, boxes,
barrels, wood, excelsior, yard trimmings, wood furniture, bedding;
noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks,
refrigerators, stoves, metals, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt, small
quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery, other mineral
waste, street rubbish including, but not limited to, street sweepings, dirt,
leaves, catch basin dirt, and contents of litter receptacles; provided, refuse
does not include dirt and waste from building operations, nor does it include
solid wastes resulting from industrial processes and manufacturing operations
such as food processing waste, boiler house cinders, lumber, scraps, and
shavings. (1990 Code §13.301)
5-3-2: UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS; DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit anywhere in the
village any uncovered piles of refuse, garbage, offal, or carcasses of dead
animals. Such refuse must be burned in properly constructed incinerators 1  or
otherwise properly disposed of. Any uncovered pile of refuse is declared to be
nuisance. (1990 Code §13.105)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 6 of this title for burning regulations.
5-3-2-1: HOUSEHOLD REFUSE DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be mandatory for the owner(s) of each single family and/or multifamily
dwelling units in the Village to be responsible for subscribing with a licensed
waste disposal firm duly appointed by the Village, for once-a-week garbage,
recycling, and yard waste collection services, and make payment for such
services directly with the appointed waste disposal firm. Where owners fail to
subscribe to refuse collection service, service will be initiated by the waste
disposal firm duly appointed by the Village with the property owner responsible
for the charges. The following rules and regulations apply:
   A.   All garbage, recycling, and yard waste shall be called for and disposed
of at least once per week, on a day assigned by a waste disposal firm duly
appointed by the Village.
   B.   The waste disposal firm shall not engage in garbage collection,
recycling, or yard waste collection services at any residence of any person
before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   C.   Every household shall be permitted to use a thirty five (35), sixty
five (65), or ninety five (95) gallon toter cart with lid to contain garbage,
recycling, and yard waste, separately.
   D.   Garbage, recycling, and yard waste containers shall be kept out of
sight in the interior of the garage, or within HOA-approved temporary storage
containers at the rear of the unit, to be obscured from the front of the
property until the permitted time to place such containers at curbside for pick
up.
   E.   No garbage, recycling, or yard waste containers shall be placed at
curbside, adjacent street, or sidewalk area, any sooner than six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. one day prior to the scheduled collection pick up day.
   F.   No garbage, recycling, or yard waste containers shall remain at
curbside, adjacent street, or sidewalk area any later than seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M. the day collection is completed; such containers shall be returned to
approved areas as referenced in subsection D.
   G.   At no time shall any garbage, recycling or yard waste collection
container be placed upon any street or sidewalk so as to obstruct any vehicular
or pedestrian traffic or impede Village maintenance.
   H.   Landscape waste will be collected once weekly from April 1 through
November 30, and must be placed at the curb properly bagged, or bundled, and
must not be combined with garbage or recycling.
   I.   No waste shall be dumped, scattered, or buried within the Village
limits. (Ord. 2023-O-12, 6-19-2023)
5-3-3: UNCOVERED GARBAGE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the village any garbage
or other material subject to decay other than leaves or grass except in a
tightly sealed or covered container. (1990 Code §13.302)
5-3-4: WINDBLOWN REFUSE:
It is unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate any dust, ashes, or trash of
such material that can be blown away by the wind anywhere in the village except
in a covered container. (1990 Code §13.303)
5-3-5: SPILLING LOADS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle any garbage,
refuse, or ashes on any public street or alley in the village; provided, that
this section shall not be construed to prohibit placing garbage, refuse, or
ashes in a container complying with the provisions of this chapter preparatory
to having such material collected and disposed of in an orderly manner. (1990
Code §13.304)
5-3-6: COMBUSTIBLE REFUSE; UNLAWFUL STORAGE AND DEPOSIT:
It is unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such a way as to
create a fire hazard, or to store or throw any refuse of any kind on any alley,
street, or other public place in the village. (1990 Code §14.201)
5-3-7: OWNER'S CONSENT FOR DISPOSAL:
It is unlawful to dump or place any garbage, refuse, or ashes on any premises
in the village without the consent of the owner of such premises. (1990 Code
§13.305)
5-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code §§13.114, 13.306, 14.213; amd. 2011 Code)
ARTICLE A. SCAVENGERS
SECTION:
5-3A-1: License Required; Term
5-3A-2: Application For License
5-3A-3: License Fee; Number Of Licenses
5-3A-4: Issuance Of License
5-3A-5: Transfer Of License
5-3A-6: Vehicle Requirements; Sunday Service Prohibited
5-3A-7: Permit Required For Storage Or Disposal
5-3A-8: Penalty
5-3A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; TERM:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in the
business of scavenger, or the collection or disposal of animal, human, or
vegetable refuse or offal, or refuse of any kind, without having first secured
a license therefor. The license shall be issued for each fiscal year. (1990
Code §12.701)
5-3A-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Annual application for such license shall be made to the village clerk February
1 preceding the fiscal year, and shall be referred by the village clerk to the
village manager for recommendation. Each scavenger must file with the village
clerk a list of its charges for commercial, business, residential, and
industrial establishments February 1 preceding the fiscal year. (1990 Code
§12.702; amd. 2011 Code)
5-3A-3: LICENSE FEE; NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The annual fee for the license required in section
5-3A-1 of this article shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00). No more than
three (3) scavengers licenses shall be in force in the village at any one time.
(1990 Code §§12.702, 12.703)
5-3A-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No license shall be issued except on order of the village manager. (1990 Code
§12.702; amd. 2011 Code)
5-3A-5: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A license may not be assigned, transferred, or conveyed in any manner without
the consent and approval of the village manager. (1990 Code §12.701; amd. 2011
Code)
5-3A-6: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS; SUNDAY SERVICE PROHIBITED:
Any vehicles used by the scavenger in his business shall be watertight and
equipped with airtight covers for such portions as are used for the
transportation of garbage or similar refuse. It shall be unlawful for any such
vehicle to be driven over or through any street in the village during or on
Sunday. (1990 Code §12.704)
5-3A-7: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR STORAGE OR DISPOSAL:
It shall be unlawful for any scavenger to dispose of or store any refuse in any
place within the village limits or within one and one-half (11/2) miles
thereof, except with the permission of the president and board of trustees.
(1990 Code §12.705)
5-3A-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this article shall,
upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code §12.706; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PLANTS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Nuisances Declared
5-4-2: Abatement Procedure
5-4-3: Abatement Costs (Rep. by Ord. 2019-O-22, 7-1-2019)
5-4-4: Foreclosure Of Lien (Rep. by Ord. 2019-O-22, 7-1-2019)
5-4-5: Violation; Penalty
5-4-1: NUISANCES DECLARED:
The following are declared to be public nuisances within the village:
   A.   Grass or weeds in excess of six inches (6") in height (this limitation
on plant height shall not apply to: 1) areas designated as wetland preserves,
areas contained within forest preserves or areas delineated as required by the
Illinois environmental protection agency to receive treated wastewater as a
part of the village land treatment system; and 2) agricultural plants being
cultivated in areas of the village zoned to allow such agricultural uses [or as
a legal nonconforming use], except within the front [or corner side yard] 30
feet of the property, the side 15 feet of the property [both sides] and the
rear 30 feet of the property; and 3) agricultural plants being cultivated in
small garden plots [under 200 square feet] used in conjunction with residential
units except within the front [or corner side yard] 30 feet of the property,
the side 15 feet of the property [both sides] and the rear 30 feet of the
property. For purposes of this subsection, "agricultural plants" shall be
defined as those plants that are commonly understood to be grown for human or
animal consumption such as grains, vegetables and fruit species 1 );
   B.   Trees or bushes which: 1) create an actual or potential public safety
hazard; 2) impair access to any public right of way, utility installation, or
aboveground utility line or wire; 3) create or contribute toward a building
code violation (including, but not limited to, blocking the view of building
address markings or obstructing gutters or drainageways); 4) impair emergency
access or egress from doors or windows of buildings; or 5) are diseased, dead,
or extending beyond the lot lines of the property on which they are planted
without the permission of adjoining property owners;
   C.   Weeds, bushes or trees recognized as invasive or noxious plants by the
United States department of agriculture, the village, or a similar federal,
state or local governmental agency;
   D.   Weeds recognized herein as invasive or noxious including: jimson,
burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, or other like kind weeds, and barberry
bushes (Berberis vulgaris or varietals thereof); or
   E.   Unmaintained weeds, trees or bushes on property which has been
unoccupied for a period in excess of three (3) weeks. (Ord. 2009-17, 6-15-2009)
 
Notes
  1. See also section
1 8-1-7 and subsections
  8-2-5B and
  11-5-4B1d of this code.
5-4-2: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
The village police department, village manager, building department or code
enforcement officer(s) or their designees (collectively, "enforcement
personnel") are hereby authorized to abate the nuisances described in section
5-4-1 of this chapter through use of the following process:
   A.   Notice Of Nuisance Condition: The enforcement personnel shall, upon
discovery of the nuisance condition, attempt to make contact with the owner or
occupier of the property through personal contact, telephone call, or mailed or
facsimile notice to the registered owner or occupier of the property, notifying
such person of the nuisance condition. Said notice shall provide the owner/
occupier with a period of time of not less than seven (7) days to abate the
nuisance condition, unless the enforcement personnel determine that such
condition presents an imminent threat to public health, safety or welfare, in
which case, no abatement period is necessary.
   B.   Abatement By Village: If the nuisance has not been abated by the owner/
occupier by the conclusion of the abatement period determined by the
enforcement personnel, the enforcement personnel may take such steps as shall
be necessary to provide for the abatement of the nuisance by or on behalf of
the village, including cutting or trimming grass; cutting, trimming or removing
weeds; trimming trees or bushes; and the removal of nuisance bushes or trees,
along with the disposal of any materials so removed. The costs of abatement
shall be a charge due and payable from the owner or occupant of the property in
question, and costs shall be established by the Public Works Director or
designee based upon the Village’s costs incurred for personnel, equipment and/
or contractors.
   C.   Notice Of Village Abatement; Statement Of Lien: After the village has
provided for the abatement of the nuisance, the enforcement personnel shall
mail an invoice for the costs incurred in abating the nuisance to the owner of
record, in accordance with the Village’s then-current weed abatement policy. If
such costs are not promptly paid, the charges may be added to property’s
combined services account, may be submitted for collections activity, or may be
subject to the filing of a lien. If the Village files a lien, a single lien may
be used for all abatement performed within a single calendar year, and the
Village may foreclose upon such lien at any time.
   D.   Recurring Nuisances: In the event any single property has a recurring
nuisance condition occurring within a single calendar year which has not been
addressed by the owner/occupier (e.g., an ongoing failure to cut grass/weeds),
the enforcement personnel shall not be required to take those steps described
in subsection A of this section and may proceed immediately to abatement of the
nuisance on the second or any subsequent occurrences of the nuisance without
requirement of additional written notice. (Ord. 2009-17, 6-15-2009; amd. Ord.
2019-O-22, 7-1-2019)
5-4-3: ABATEMENT COSTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2019-O-22, 7-1-2019)
5-4-4: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN:
(Rep. by Ord. 2019-O-22, 7-1-2019)
5-4-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
The occurrence of a nuisance as described in this chapter shall be a violation
of this code. Action taken by the enforcement personnel to abate the nuisance
shall not supersede this code, and the occurrence of a nuisance condition is
subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code per day for each day the nuisance is permitted to remain in
place. Each subsequent recurrence of a nuisance condition shall be a separate
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-17, 6-15-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CONSERVATION AREAS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Map Of Conservation Areas; Changes
5-5-3: Signs Posted
5-5-4: Maintenance Requirements
5-5-5: Exemptions From Provisions
5-5-6: Violation; Penalties
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The terms listed in this section shall be defined, for purposes of this
chapter, as indicated:
CONSERVATION AREA:
   A.   Any "delineated wetland" (as defined in this section).
   B.   Any area shown on an approved final plat, plan or landscaping plan for
any portion of the village as being designated for the planting, installation
and/or maintenance of landscaping and plants designed to be maintained at a
height in excess of six inches (6").
   C.   Any area shown on an approved final plat, plan or landscaping plan for
any portion of the village that is designated to be maintained in a specified
fashion for the purpose of providing some environmental benefit (e.g.,
filtration of sedimentation, stabilization of shoreline, etc.).
   D.   Any area identified on the official village of Pingree Grove map of
conservation areas as maintained at the village hall.
DELINEATED WETLAND: Any area of property that has been identified as a wetland
by an agency having jurisdiction to make such identifications, including, but
not limited to, the army corps of engineers, the United States or Illinois
environmental protection agency or the village of Pingree Grove. (Ord. 2010-09,
5-17-2010)
5-5-2: MAP OF CONSERVATION AREAS; CHANGES:
   A.   The village shall adopt an official map of conservation areas, which
map shall be updated on an as needed basis to reflect additions to or deletions
from those areas identified as conservation areas for purposes of this chapter.
A copy of said map shall be available for public inspection at the village hall
during normal business hours, and village staff shall use reasonable effort to
make the current copy of such official map available on the official website of
the village.
   B.   No public hearing shall be necessary for changes in the official map.
Changes in the official map shall be made based upon the recommendation of the
village public works director and/or the village engineer, and shall be
approved by a majority vote of the village board. No property owner or other
party shall have any right or authorization to a hearing or other due process
prior to a change in the status of any property as being identified as a
conservation area or not, nor shall any party have a continuing expectation
that property shall or shall not be identified as a conservation area. Not less
than seven (7) days before the date that any parcel of property is proposed to
be approved by the village board identified as being a conservation area, the
village shall dispatch, via U.S. mail, postage prepaid, a notice to all owners
of property that is immediately adjacent to the identified area, along with a
copy of the proposed revisions to the official map. (Ord. 2010-09, 5-17-2010)
5-5-3: SIGNS POSTED:
The village public works director shall be authorized to obtain and install
such signs as he shall deem reasonably necessary in the areas identified as
conservation areas. (Ord. 2010-09, 5-17-2010)
5-5-4: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Notwithstanding the contrary provisions of any other village ordinance,
maintenance of conservation areas shall only be permitted in a fashion that
maintains them in the as designed condition. That maintenance obligation may be
defined in one of two (2) ways: 1) the village board, at the time of approving
the designation of any parcel of land as a conservation area, may also approve
a maintenance plan detailing the maintenance requirements for the area; or 2)
in the absence of such an approved maintenance plan, the party responsible for
maintenance of the conservation area shall maintain the plan to keep the area
consistent with the approved landscaping plans for the area, and in accordance
with all applicable rules and regulations. It shall be unlawful to engage in
any unpermitted alteration of a conservation area, and such unlawful activity
shall include, but shall not be limited to:
      1.   Mowing of grasses or other plants utilized in conservation areas.
      2.   Grading or regrading of conservation areas.
      3.   Discharging waste, debris, trash, refuse or other materials to a
conservation area.
      4.   Applying fertilizer, herbicide, insecticide or other chemicals to a
conservation area without the permission of the village and the owner of the
conservation area.
      5.   Conversion of a conservation area to a recreational area or for any
other purpose whatsoever.
      6.   Operation of a motor vehicle or any motorized equipment, including,
but not limited to, lawn mowers, chain saws, weed whackers, or other similar
equipment within a conservation area, other than as required to perform
permitted maintenance in accordance with the requirements of the village and
the owner of the conservation area.
      7.   Installation of any improvements, buildings, structures, or other
items, whether permanent or temporary, within the conservation area.
      8.   The making or construction of any other unauthorized modification of
a conservation area.
   B.   
      1.   The owner of any conservation area shall be exempt from those
provisions of this code requiring that plants be maintained at a height of six
inches (6") or less 1 . However, all such parties shall be required to perform
any maintenance required by their applicable approved plans, village board
approved maintenance requirements, annexation agreement or development
agreement, and any maintenance reasonably required to maintain the conservation
areas in an orderly fashion and in the condition that they were contemplated to
be maintained at the time of installation.
      2.   In the event any party fails to so maintain an identified
conservation area, the village shall notify such owner in writing of the areas
of concern identified and shall attempt to schedule a meeting with the affected
property owner to attempt to develop a mutually acceptable resolution of the
issue.
      3.   In the event that the affected party fails to take action to address
the issues identified within fourteen (14) days of the date on which the
village mails a notice identifying the issues, the village may proceed to take
all such action as shall be necessary to abate the violation and shall be
permitted to treat the abatement process as abatement of a nuisance in
accordance with the provisions of this code applicable to weeds and grass
generally (i.e., with the provision of notice followed by abatement of the
nuisances at property owner's expense, with the imposition of a recorded lien
pursuant to the applicable provisions of this code 1 ).
      4.   Further, prior to the use of any chemical weed or insect control
mechanisms or the use of fire or controlled burning within a conservation area,
the party responsible for maintaining the conservation area shall be required
to give notice to the village and obtain the village's express consent for such
chemical application or controlled burn, which consent shall be subject to the
imposition of any requirements that the village deems appropriate (e.g., for
chemical application, a minimum setback from any wetlands or detention basins;
for controlled burning, coordination with and permission from the fire
protection district). (Ord. 2010-09, 5-17-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  5-4-1A of this title.
1 1. See section
  5-4-2 of this title.
5-5-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The following are exempt from the enforcement of this chapter:
   A.   Village employees, agents or contractors acting in the performance of
their official duties.
   B.   Authorized third parties engaging in permitted maintenance of a
conservation area. (Ord. 2010-09, 5-17-2010)
5-5-6: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Any violation of this chapter, whether through
unauthorized modification of a conservation area or through the failure to
properly maintain a conservation area in an orderly fashion, is declared to be
a public nuisance which may be abated by the village.
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine as follows:
First violation: A fine not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
Second violation: A fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Third or subsequent violation: A fine of not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
      2.   In addition to the fines contemplated in subsection B1 of this
section, each violator shall also be liable to the village or to the owner of
the conservation area for the total cost of remediating any violations,
including removing any unauthorized construction or impediments, the costs of
replacing any plants or structures damaged as a result of the violation, or any
other costs whatsoever incurred in investigating the violation, identifying the
perpetrators, and repairing any damage done to the affected conservation area.
(Ord. 2010-09, 5-17-2010)
CHAPTER 6
BURNING REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
5-6-1: Prohibited Burning
5-6-2: Restrictions On Burning
5-6-3: Permitted Burning
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 5-3-2 of this title for permitted burning of refuse in properly constructed
  incinerators.
5-6-1: PROHIBITED BURNING:
It shall be unlawful to burn paper, treated or untreated building materials,
cardboard, grass, rags, garbage, garden trash, rubber, tar, waste oil (except
within a waste oil furnace designed for said purpose) and/or similar materials
within the corporate limits of the village. (Ord. 2010-01, 1-18-2010)
5-6-2: RESTRICTIONS ON BURNING:
Any open burning conducted which is otherwise permitted pursuant to this
chapter shall be subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   1. Any such burning shall be conducted a reasonable and safe distance
from any trees, shrubs, fences, buildings or other potentially flammable
structures/substances.
      2.   Any such burning shall be conducted not less than fifteen feet (15')
from the nearest property line.
      3.   Fires in approved containers (as defined in the international fire
code) are permitted; provided, that said container must be not less than
fifteen feet (15') from a structure (and the user must have documentation
present demonstrating that said container is an approved container).
      4.   Open fires, whether recreational or otherwise, with a pile size of
less than three feet (3') in diameter and less than two feet (2') in height
shall be permitted; provided, that said fire must be not less than twenty five
feet (25') from a structure, and provisions shall be made to prevent the fire
from spreading within twenty five feet (25') of any structure.
      5.   Any other open fires, whether recreational or otherwise, shall be
conducted not less than fifty feet (50') from any structure, and provisions
shall be made to prevent the fire from spreading to within fifty feet (50') of
any structure;
   B.   Any such burning shall be conducted in a neat and orderly fashion, and
contained within an area not exceeding three feet (3') in diameter and two feet
(2') in height;
   C.   No burning shall be conducted when wind speeds exceed ten (10) miles
per hour, nor when it is otherwise unreasonably windy, nor shall any burning be
permitted to distribute ash, embers, or partially burned materials beyond the
property of the person conducting the burning;
   D.   All burning shall be supervised at all times when flames are present by
an adult not under the influence of drugs or alcohol, equipped with an adequate
means of extinguishing the fire (consisting of either a charged fire
extinguisher, a reasonable water supply, or other approved means);
   E.   No burning, including use of barbecues, open flame cooking devices or
grills, shall be permitted on outdoor wooden decks or other wooden structures,
nor on a patio/balcony/porch of any residential structure other than a ground
level, nonflammable patio (e.g., dirt, grass, stone or concrete), regardless of
whether an enclosure, barbecue, grill or fire pit is utilized. No wood or
charcoal burning grill may be utilized on or within any flammable structure
(including, but not limited to, wooden decks, balconies, within a structure,
garage or outbuilding, etc.);
   F.   No burning shall be conducted that creates a harmful or unreasonably
offensive odor;
   G.   No gasoline, diesel fuel or other accelerants shall be permitted in the
ignition of said fire (except, that a reasonable amount of lighter fluid may be
utilized to ignite charcoal for use within a grill for cooking purposes);
   H.   No burning shall occur or be permitted to occur on any public property
(including parkway areas between streets and sidewalks), nor on any property
other than property owned by the person responsible for the fire;
   I.   No buildings, sheds, fences or other structures shall be burned; and
   J.   No burning shall occur within the confines of any building or
structure, except within an approved fireplace that meets all applicable
building code or other codes and requirements. (Ord. 2010-01, 1-18-2010)
5-6-3: PERMITTED BURNING:
   A.   The open burning of tree limbs, twigs or nontreated wood building
materials for domestic fireplaces, campfires, cooking or religious purposes
shall be allowed, subject to the provisions of section
5-6-2 of this chapter.
   B.   The open burning of leaves shall be permitted, subject to the
provisions of section
5-6-2 of this chapter, between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) P.M.
   C.   Any person who has submitted for and received approval from the village
and village engineer to have and maintain a prairie grass or naturalized area
of landscaping which requires annual or semiannual burning to maintain, may
conduct such burning, but only after obtaining the written prior approval of
the village police department and the Pingree Grove/Countryside fire protection
district, and after submitting to any conditions or requirements imposed by
either entity. No area that has not been permitted and approved by the village
as a prairie grass or naturalized area shall be eligible for burning under this
subsection.
   D.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained herein shall prohibit
the use of an enclosed electric, propane or natural gas powered grill, used for
the cooking of food for personal consumption on the premises, at ground level;
provided, that adequate setbacks are maintained between such grill and any
surrounding structures to prevent damage by heat or flame.
   E.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the village may permit itself or any
other governmental entity (including, but not limited to, forest preserve
districts, park districts, or fire protection districts) to engage in burning
activities as deemed appropriate by the village from time to time (e.g., fire
department training, village conducted bonfire, or other conduct determined to
be appropriate by the village manager, and subject to such restrictions as he
shall impose). (Ord. 2010-01, 1-18-2010)
CHAPTER 7
FOOD SERVICE
SECTION:
5-7-1: Licenses And Inspections Required
5-7-2: Spoiled, Tainted Food Prohibited
5-7-3: Penalties
5-7-1: LICENSES AND INSPECTIONS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to operate any establishment, machine or enterprise that serves,
prepares, or offers for sale any food, including, but not limited to,
beverages, prepared foods, snacks, or related items, which is required to
obtain any form of food service license from the county health department,
without first having obtained all requisite licenses and inspections. Any such
establishment or enterprise which is required to obtain a license or inspection
relating to the preparation or service of any food item shall prominently
display a copy of its current license(s) and inspection(s). (Ord. 2009-16, 6-
15-2009)
5-7-2: SPOILED, TAINTED FOOD PROHIBITED:
No food service establishment shall offer for sale, or keep for the purpose of
selling or offering for sale, any food of any kind intended for human
consumption which is spoiled, tainted or is unwholesome and unfit for human
consumption for any reason. (Ord. 2009-16, 6-15-2009)
5-7-3: PENALTIES:
Any violation of this chapter shall be a village ordinance violation,
punishable by a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) and not
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per occurrence, per day, for a
first offense; a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and
not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a second offense; and a
fine of not less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a third or
subsequent offense. For purposes of this chapter, each day on which a violation
is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense for purposes of
calculating fines. In addition, should any person be stopped and issued a
citation for a violation of this chapter, a second or successive violation
occurring more than ten (10) minutes after the first citation has been
completed shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2009-16, 6-15-2009)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Department Created
6-1-3: Hiring Standards; Probation; Training
6-1-4: Chief Of Police
6-1-5: Additional Officers
6-1-6: General Duties Of Police Officers
6-1-7: Compensation
6-1-8: Serving Processes
6-1-9: Conduct Of Members
6-1-10: Discharge Or Discipline Of Officers
6-1-11: Civilian Employees
6-1-12: Emergency Lights In Personal Vehicles
6-1-13: Rules And Regulations
6-1-14: Obedience To Police Required
6-1-15: Part Time Police Officers Authorized
6-1-16: Administrative Procedure To Determine Eligibility Under The Public
Safety Employee Benefit Act And Establish Definitions And Procedures For The
Maintenance Of Such Benefits After Their Award
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
MEMBER: Any person in the employ of the police department of the village who is
not sworn and commissioned to perform police duties.
POLICE OFFICER: Any employee of the police department of the village sworn and
commissioned to perform police duties, and includes the chief of detectives,
captains, lieutenants, sergeants, plain clothes officers and patrol officers.
The term does not include special police officers, auxiliary police officers,
night watchmen, temporary employees, clerks or other civilian employees of the
police department, traffic guards, civilian parking meter and parking
facilities personnel or so called auxiliary police officers specially appointed
to aid or direct traffic at or near schools or public functions or to aid in
civilian defense, or special police officers temporarily employed or
commissioned as police officers. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006)
6-1-2: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a police department for the village, being an executive
department of the village. The department shall consist of the chief of police,
deputy chief of police, if selected, and of such number of captains,
lieutenants, sergeants and patrol officers as may be provided from time to time
by the village board. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
6-1-3: HIRING STANDARDS; PROBATION; TRAINING:
   A.   Hiring Standards: Any person of good character who meets the
qualifications and standards for being a police officer as prescribed by state
statute, village ordinance and rules of the department as prescribed from time
to time by the village manager, chief of police or board of trustees may be
employed as a police officer for the village. No applicant for a position with
the police department of the village shall be excluded by reason of race,
creed, color, religion, sex, station in life, national origin, age, disability,
familial status or sexual orientation. The police department shall be an equal
opportunity employer and, as such, shall comply with applicable state and
federal statutes and regulations pertaining to employment practices. (Ord.
2007-42, 2-5-2007; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Probationary Period: All persons employed as police officers shall be
probationary employees for a period of one year from the date of their
employment. The probationary period may be extended up to an additional one
hundred eighty (180) days at the discretion of the chief of police. A police
officer may be discharged without cause during said probationary period.
Thereafter, a police officer, other than the chief of police, may be discharged
in accordance with section
6-1-10 of this chapter.
   C.   Training For Part Time Officers: Any police officers other than those
officers who shall be employed on a full time basis shall be qualified to enter
and successfully complete any training mandated by the Illinois law enforcement
training standards board. (Ord. 2007-42, 2-5-2007)
6-1-4: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created the office of chief of police.
(Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006)
   B.   Appointment: The chief of police shall be appointed by the village
president, with the advice and consent of the village board. The president may
make an interim appointment to chief of police, from time to time. The
appointment of the chief of police or an interim appointment shall not be made
by the Board of Police Commissioners. The chief of police need not be from the
lower ranking officers of the police department. (Ord. 2015-O-20, 7-6-2015)
   C.   Oath And Bond: Before entering upon the duties of office, such person
shall take the oath of office prescribed for village officers and execute a
bond to the village in such amount as determined by the board of trustees.
   D.   Compensation: The chief of police shall receive compensation as
directed by the board of trustees from time to time. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006)
   E.   General Duties:
      1.   Supervision: The chief of police shall be the head of the police
department, shall have supervision over all of the police officers and members
thereof and shall be held directly responsible for the conduct and efficiency
of all police officers and members of the department. All persons who are
members of the department shall serve subject to the orders of the chief of
police.
      2.   Status Reports: The chief of police shall submit a report to the
village board of trustees detailing the operations of the police department at
each regular board meeting.
      3.   Familiarity With Village: The chief of police shall familiarize
himself/herself with all sections of the village and its operation.
      4.   Hours: The chief of police shall maintain regular hours of duty.
      5.   Familiarity With Police Business From Shift To Shift: When coming on
duty, the chief of police shall immediately familiarize himself/herself with
all police business transacted since his/her last tour of duty, and it shall be
his/her duty to inform or provide for the transference of information so as to
inform each shift of police officers and members of the department going on
duty of all important matters which have occurred or which may require
attention.
      6.   Conduct Of Police Officers: The chief of police shall immediately
and diligently inquire into all complaints and charges of laxity and misconduct
by police officers or members of the police department in the performance of
their duties and shall take such steps as set forth in this chapter, or as he/
she may deem necessary when not in conflict with this chapter or state statute,
so as to properly deal with said complaints, charges and misconduct.
      7.   Custody Of Books, Records And Equipment: The chief of police shall
have custody and control of all books, records, machines, tools, apparatus and
equipment of every kind and nature necessary for use by the police department.
      8.   Records And Reports: The chief of police shall keep such records and
make such reports concerning the activities and operations of the police
department as may be required by state statute, ordinances of the village or
the board of trustees which will facilitate proper law enforcement and protect
due process requirements.
      9.   Custody Of Lost, Abandoned, Stolen Property: The chief of police
shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or stolen property found or
recovered in the village. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
      10.   Interdepartmental Cooperation And Agreements: The chief of police
is and shall be authorized to enter into one or more agreements or
intergovernmental agreements with other law enforcement agencies or
governmental agencies, for the shared use of available resources, shared law
enforcement or prosecutorial activities, joint operations, training operations
or initiatives, co-policing initiatives, integration of command, mutual aid
arrangements, and similar law enforcement operations including utilization of
sworn peace officers from other agencies to supplement or temporarily serve in,
with or under the village's standing complement of police officers. Said
agreements may cover any terms related to such operations, including the
indemnification or insuring of officers involved, chain of command issues, use
of village resources, or related topics. Any agreement which requires the
appropriation or use of unbudgeted funds shall require the approval of the
village board for that budgetary amendment, prior to approval by the chief of
police. (Ord. 2014-09, 4-21-2014)
      11.   Part Time Employees: The chief of police shall be authorized to
administer tests, conduct background checks, and take all steps necessary to
evaluate candidates for hire as part time police officers for the village of
Pingree Grove and, upon satisfactory conclusion of all such tests, shall have
the authority to hire such officers for the village of Pingree Grove, provided
that the costs of their employment are included within the then current budget
for the village. (Ord. 2014-O-12, 5-19-2014; amd. Ord. 2019-O-19, 12-6-2021)
6-1-5: ADDITIONAL OFFICERS:
The police department shall have such other officers, in such other ranks and
positions, as the corporate authorities of the village may approve from time to
time. (Ord. 2015-O-20, 7-6-2015)
6-1-6: GENERAL DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the police department to
see to the enforcement of all of the ordinances of the village and all statutes
applicable thereto; and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law
and arrest violators thereof. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006)
   B.   The chief of police and all officers of the department shall have the
power and authority of a constable at common law and such other powers as
granted to municipal police officers under the statutes of the state and as set
forth in the ordinances of the village.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the chief of police and police officers of the
department to enforce all of the ordinances of the village and state and
federal statutes applicable therein and to preserve order, prevent violation of
the law and to arrest violators thereof. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006; amd. Ord.
2015-O-20, 7-6-2015)
   D.   Every police officer and member of the department shall appear as a
witness whenever necessary for the prosecution of any violation of a village
ordinance or state or federal statute. All witness fees received by an officer
for testimony shall be delivered to the village finance director. (Ord. 2006-
25, 10-2-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
6-1-7: COMPENSATION:
Salaries and wages of the police officers and members of the police department
shall be as established and determined from time to time by the board of
trustees. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006)
6-1-8: SERVING PROCESSES:
The chief of police and police officers of the department shall serve processes
upon proper application or request therefor. No member of the police
department, except the chief, shall serve any process except on command or
direction of the chief of the police department. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006; amd.
Ord. 2015-O-20, 7-6-2015)
6-1-9: CONDUCT OF MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of every member of the police department to conduct
himself or herself in a proper and law abiding manner at all times and to avoid
the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the department shall obey the
orders and directions of his/her superior. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006)
6-1-10: DISCHARGE OR DISCIPLINE OF OFFICERS:
Officers other than probationary officers may be discharged or disciplined in
accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed by the board of trustees,
village manager or chief of police. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006)
6-1-11: CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES:
The village manager may employ civilians who are not officers of police to
perform duties of a nonenforcement nature for the police department when funds
for such purposes are budgeted by the board of trustees. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-
2006)
6-1-12: EMERGENCY LIGHTS IN PERSONAL VEHICLES:
The village, as a competent authority pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/12-215(a)(2), hereby authorizes any sworn officer of the village
police department to possess and operate, in accordance with state statute,
emergency lights in his/her personal vehicles. Each officer shall only be
permitted to utilize said emergency lights in one personal vehicle of his or
her own at a time. Each officer so authorized shall exercise reasonable control
over such lights so as to assure that only the sworn officer has the ability to
use said emergency lights, and no other person with access to such personal
vehicles may utilize said emergency lights. The chief of police is hereby
authorized to enact such additional policies, conditions or limitations on the
use of said lights as he/she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this
section, and may, in his/her sole discretion, prohibit such lights in any or
all personal vehicles. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006)
6-1-13: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The chief of police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations
for the conduct and guidance of the members of the police department as he/she
shall deem advisable, and such rules shall be binding on members of the police
department.
   B.   The respective rank and grade of the members of the police department
may be prescribed by regulation of the chief of police.
   C.   All rules adopted by the board of trustees or the village manager shall
supersede any conflicting rule prescribed by the chief of police.
   D.   Acceptance of a position with the police department shall constitute
acceptance of and shall be an agreement to abide by the rules and regulations
as may from time to time be adopted. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006)
6-1-14: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order, signal or direction of a police officer. (Ord. 2006-25, 10-2-2006)
6-1-15: PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Employment: The village of Pingree Grove may employ part time police
officers from time to time as it deems necessary, and as authorized by the then
current village budget.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Pingree Grove police department, but the number of hours
a part time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full time police
officers. Part time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
said employment, and may be removed by the village chief of police at any time.
Part time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general
orders issued by the police department. (Ord. 2012-O-19, 10-2-2012)
 
Notes
1 1 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
6-1-16: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE TO DETERMINE ELIGIBILITY UNDER THE PUBLIC
SAFETY EMPLOYEE BENEFIT ACT AND ESTABLISH DEFINITIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR THE
MAINTENANCE OF SUCH BENEFITS AFTER THEIR AWARD:
The purpose of this Section
6-1-16 is to provide a fair and efficient method of determining the eligibility
of full-time Pingree Grove police officers to the benefits enumerated under the
Public Safety Employee Benefits Act (“PSEBA” or “Act”) through an
administrative process, including, if necessary, an administrative hearing. All
benefits shall be consistent with PSEBA and be no lesser than nor greater than,
those provided by the Act and this Section
6-1-16.
   A.   Not A Contract: The administrative procedure provided in Section
6-1-16 is not a contract that bestows a benefit or entitlement on any
particular individual and may be modified or amended by the Village at any
time.
   B.   Definitions:
 
BASIC LEVEL  The lowest-cost plan available to the Village’s regular, full-time employees
INSURANCE:   as determined by total annual premium.
CATASTROPHIC Shall have the meaning established by the Illinois courts or legislation,
INJURY:      including one or more of the circumstances set forth in 820 ILCS 320/10(b),
             whichever is more restrictive.
DEPENDENT
CHILD AND    Shall both be defined as a dependent child according to the Village’s health
DEPENDENT    insurance plan.
FOR SUPPORT:
DIRECTOR:    The highest-level employee in the Village’s department responsible for
             administering employee benefits, or their designee.
EMERGENCY:   The meaning established by Illinois courts or legislation, whichever is more
             restrictive.
POLICE       For purposes of this Section
OFFICER:     6-1-16 shall mean a full-time law enforcement officer of the Village of
             Pingree Grove on duty at the time of his/her catastrophic injury.
SPOUSE OF
THE INJURED  Shall be defined by the Village’s health insurance plan.
POLICE
OFFICER:
 
   C.   PSEBA Initial Qualification: Any police officer who, after November 14,
1997, suffers a catastrophic injury or is killed in the line of duty, may apply
for health insurance benefits under PSEBA in strict conformance with the
standards set forth in this Section
6-1-16. The same benefits may be extended to a spouse and eligible dependent
children (hereinafter “applicant’s beneficiaries”), provided that all terms and
conditions as established in PSEBA and this Section are fully satisfied.
   D.   Application Procedure: A PSEBA application shall be filed by a PSEBA
applicant no later than sixty (60) days from the date a permanent duty-related
disability pension claim is awarded. Any police officer who is not subject to
the jurisdiction of the police pension board shall submit a completed PSEBA
application within six (6) months of sustaining the alleged catastrophic
injury.
The Director shall provide the applicant with a copy of this Section at the
time the PSEBA application is provided. In the event that an employee is
receiving PSEBA as of the date of adoption of this Section, such employee's
receipt of such benefit shall be grandfathered as to the original application,
but not as to the extension application as required in Section
6-1-16.
      1.   The application shall include the name of the employee; the full
name of the applicant’s spouse, date of marriage, with marriage license
attached; birth certificates or adoption orders for all dependent children, and
any and all other documents establishing that the child is “dependent” as set
forth in the Village’s health insurance plan document; the date of hire;
detailed information regarding the incident including date, time, place and
nature of injury, and any other factual circumstances surrounding the incident
giving rise to said claim; the identities of witnesses to the incident, the
names of witnesses the applicant may call at a PSEBA hearing and the names and
addresses of the employee’s medical providers; information and supporting
documentation filed with the pension board by the applicant and all exhibits on
file with the pension board; any and all rulings or determinations by the
pension board; any and all documents supporting the PSEBA eligibility
requirement for applicant’s beneficiaries, including: proof of active school
enrollment and employment. Failure to file a fully complete application, along
with submittal of all supporting documents, shall result in a forfeiture of
PSEBA benefits until the next date of open enrollment for the insurance.
      2.   Medical Release Required: The Village shall secure medical records.
Medical releases provided by the Director, authorizing the collection of
medical information by the Village related to the incident, including, but not
limited to, disability pension proceedings, workmen’s compensation records and
medical records shall be signed by the applicant and submitted with the PSEBA
application. The PSEBA medical releases shall specify the name, address, email
and phone information for pertinent health care providers and hospitals, along
with the applicant’s signature and a witness’s signature. The medical releases
shall comply with HIPAA standards. Medical records shall be considered
“supporting documents” as required above.
      3.   Additional Information: The Village Manager shall, at any time, have
the authority to modify the PSEBA application form, or seek additional
information from an applicant or other source of relevant information, to
better enable the Village to ascertain the applicant’s qualifications.
      4.   No review until complete application filed. The Village’s initial
review of the PSEBA application will not occur until all required information,
including the supporting documents, are submitted to the Director.
      5.   Sworn Application: Any application for PSEBA benefits shall be sworn
to by the applicant and notarized. All supporting documents filed for PSEBA
qualification shall be verified under oath by the applicant and notarized.
   E.   Application Review By Village Manager (Notification): Upon receipt of a
timely and fully completed and filed PSEBA application, the Village Manager
shall have thirty (30) days to review the application and supporting documents
and make an initial determination as to whether a PSEBA qualification hearing
is required, or if a determination can be made without a hearing.
      1.   Additional Information: The Village Manager may require other
information necessary to decide as to PSEBA eligibility and as to whether a
qualification hearing is required, including, but not limited to, health
insurance benefits the applicant is currently receiving or is eligible to
receive or any other health insurance benefits the applicant’s beneficiaries
are otherwise entitled to. If the Village Manager requests additional
information that was not otherwise required, the request for additional
information shall not be used to deem the application untimely or incomplete,
as long as the applicant provides the additional information within thirty (30)
days of the Village Manager's request.
      2.   PSEBA Approval: If the Village Manager determines that all PSEBA
requirements have been satisfied, the Village Manager may grant the PSEBA
benefits. Upon such grant, the applicant will be notified and required to
contact the Director within thirty (30) calendar days for benefit explanation
and processing.
      3.   PSEBA Denial: If the Village Manager denies the application, the
applicant will receive notice of such denial and the applicant shall have the
right to request, in writing, a qualification hearing, which shall be served on
the Village Manager not later than thirty (30) calendar days after being served
with a written notice of initial denial.
      4.   Request PSEBA Hearing: In the event of a denial, if the applicant
fails to request a PSEBA qualification hearing within thirty (30) days, the
applicant shall contact the Director to discuss other potential health
insurance options. Failure to request an administrative hearing when thirty
(30) days after being served with a written notice of denial by the Village
Manager, shall result in a forfeiture of PSEBA benefits for that plan year. The
Village Manager may also request an administrative hearing if there is
insufficient evidence to determine whether the PSEBA benefits should be
approved or denied.
      5.   Setting Initial Date: If the applicant requests an administrative
hearing, the Village Manager will refer the matter to an administrative hearing
officer within thirty (30) days of the request. The administrative hearing
officer shall set the first date of the administrative hearing within thirty
(30) calendar days of being appointed.
   F.   Administrative Hearing Officer/Administrative Hearing:
      1.   Appointment of Administrative Hearing Officer: The Village Manager
is hereby authorized to appoint one or more persons to hold the position of
administrative hearing officer for any Village PSEBA administrative hearing. In
making this selection, the Village Manager shall consider all pertinent
information, including at a minimum:
         a.   The candidate’s ability to completely perform the services;
         b.   The candidate’s background, service, and performance data on file
with the Village or otherwise obtained by the Village; and
         c.   The candidate shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in
the State of Illinois for at least three years prior to appointment and have
knowledge of and experience in employment and labor law, general civil
procedure, the rules of evidence and administrative practice.
      2.   Power of the Hearing Officer: The administrative hearing officer
shall have all the powers granted under common law relative to the conduct of
an administrative hearing, including the power to:
         a.   Preside over PSEBA administrative hearing(s);
         b.   Administer oaths;
         c.   Hear testimony under oath or affirmation and accept evidence that
is relevant to the issue of PSEBA eligibility;
         d.   Issue subpoenas to secure attendance of witnesses in the
production of relevant papers or documents upon request of the parties or their
representatives;
         e.   Rule upon objections and the admissibility of evidence and other
motions;
         f.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the administrative
hearing and all exhibits in evidence introduced at the administrative hearing;
and
         g.   Issue written factual findings and a decision based on each
element required under the Act to establish the applicant's qualifications; the
evidence presented at the administrative hearing; the law; and after
entertaining (oral or written) arguments, as directed by the administrative
hearing officer.
         h.   For administrative hearings for police officers who are not
subject to the jurisdiction of the police pension board, the administrative
hearing officer shall also make a determination of whether the applicant
sustained a catastrophic injury, following the same law and making factual
inquires as if the police officer was subject to the jurisdiction of a police
pension board. All provisions of this Section shall be followed by the
administrative hearing officer in this type of hearing.
   G.   Administrative Hearing:
      1.   The administrative hearing shall be held to adjudicate and determine
whether the applicant is eligible for PSEBA benefits consistent with the Act
and this Section
6-1-16 and as follows:
         a.   Time and date: Hearing shall be held on the date, time and place
established by the administrative hearing officer with appropriate notice
served upon the applicant.
         b.   Hearing transcription: The Village shall secure the attendance of
a certified court reporter to make a transcript of all hearings. The Village
and the applicant shall split equally the cost of the court reporter’s
appearance fee and the cost of one transcript for the administrative hearing
officer. If the Village or the applicant requests his/its own copy of the
transcript, the requesting party shall bear the entire cost of his/its own
copy.
         c.   Normally, the transcript shall be prepared based on the court
reporter's standard, non-expedited time schedule. If one party requests an
expedited transcript, that party shall bear the entire amount of the increased
cost for the expedited transcripts, including the extra cost of all copies of
the expedited transcripts.
         d.   Procedures: The Village and the applicant shall be entitled to
representation by counsel at said administrative hearing and may present
witnesses, testimony, and documents, cross-examine witnesses, request the
issuance of subpoenas to compel appearances of witnesses and the production of
relevant documents. Each party shall bear its own costs of counsel and
witnesses.
         e.   Evidence: The Illinois Rules of Evidence shall apply to the
extent practicable unless the administrative hearing officer determines that
application of a rule would be an injustice or preclude the introduction of
evidence of the type commonly relied upon by a prudent person in the conduct of
their affairs. Such determination shall be in the sole discretion of the
administrative hearing officer, but the administrative hearing officer shall
state on the record the reason for that determination.
         f.   Burden of proof: The applicant shall have the burden of
proceeding and the burden of proof to establish that the applicant and
applicant's beneficiaries are qualified to receive PSEBA benefits.
         g.   Final determination: The determination of the applicant’s
eligibility for PSEBA benefits shall constitute a final administrative
determination for purposes of judicial review.
         h.   Administrative records: All records pertaining to the
administrative hearing process will be held in a separate file in the
applicant's name in the Village's department responsible for administering
employee benefits.
   H.   Administrative Review: The administrative hearing officer’s
determination shall be subject to a common law writ of certiorari by the
applicant or the Village.
   I.   Health Insurance Benefits: Upon qualification for PSEBA benefits, the
beneficiary shall be entitled to the Village's basic level insurance. An
applicant may choose to enroll in any other health insurance plan offered by
the Village different from the basic level insurance but shall pay the
difference in insurance premium between the Village's basic level insurance and
the selected non-basic level plan. Failure of the PSEBA beneficiary to timely
pay the difference in the insurance premium's non-basic level plan shall result
in coverage in the basic level plan. Open Enrollment. PSEBA beneficiaries shall
annually complete a PSEBA extension application provided by the director no
later than thirty (30) days prior to the end date of all village open
enrollment periods.
   J.   Other Health Insurance Benefits:
      1.   Other Benefits: Health insurance benefits payable from any other
source will reduce the benefits payable to a PSEBA beneficiary from the
Village. Each PSEBA beneficiary shall sign an affidavit attesting that the
PSEBA beneficiary is not eligible for insurance benefits from any other source
unless there is another source. If there is another source, the PSEBA
beneficiary shall notify the Village of that source no later than five business
days from that source becoming available to the PSEBA beneficiary or the
applicant’s beneficiaries.
      2.   Disclosure Of Health Insurance Coverage: The PSEBA beneficiary has
an on-going obligation and shall update health insurance coverage information
provided and failure to do so may result in the denial of benefits and/or
reimbursement to the Village for duplicate coverage. If duplicate coverage has
been received by a PSEBA beneficiary, further PSEBA benefits will be denied
until the Village has been fully reimbursed by the PSEBA beneficiary for what
it would have been credited if it had known about other coverage or it
otherwise recovers the value of duplicative coverage through any other means
available at law.
      3.   Reimbursement: Receipt by the PSEBA beneficiary or the applicant’s
beneficiaries of health insurance benefits from other sources without notice to
the Village shall require the PSEBA beneficiary to reimburse the Village for
the value of those benefits.
      4.   Medicare Eligibility: The PSEBA beneficiary shall notify the Village
when the PSEBA beneficiary or applicant’s beneficiaries become Medicare
eligible regardless of the status of the enrollment period, so the village may
assist with the transition to Medicare coverage and/or adjust health insurance
benefits or PSEBA benefits accordingly. (Ord. 2022-O-04, 2-22-2022)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE A. EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Created; Purpose; Composition
6-2A-2: Coordinator
6-2A-3: Oath Of Office
6-2A-4: Functions
6-2A-5: Service As Mobile Support Team
6-2A-6: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
6-2A-7: Emergency Action
6-2A-8: Compensation
6-2A-9: Reimbursement By State
6-2A-10: Purchases And Expenditures
6-2A-11: Office
6-2A-12: Appropriation; Tax Levy
6-2A-13: Continuity In Office
6-2A-14: Emergency Locations For Village Government; Governmental Powers
6-2A-1: CREATED; PURPOSE; COMPOSITION:
There is created an established local organization for emergency management for
the village to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage
resulting from explosion of atomic or other means from without or by means of
sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake,
telecommunications failure or other natural or technological causes, in
accordance with the Illinois emergency management agency act 1 . The emergency
services and disaster agency shall consist of the coordinator and additional
members to be selected by the coordinator. (1990 Code §9.001; amd. 2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
6-2A-2: COORDINATOR:
   A.   Appointment; Term: The coordinator of the municipal emergency services
and disaster agency shall be appointed by the village president, with the
consent of the board of trustees, and shall serve until removed by the same.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The coordinator shall have direct responsibility for
the organization, administration, training and operation of the emergency
services and disaster agency, subject to the direction and control of the
village president as provided by statute.
   C.   Vacancy: In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or inability
to serve of the coordinator, the village president or any person designated by
him shall be and act as coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided
in this article. (1990 Code §9.003; amd. 2011 Code)
6-2A-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the municipal emergency
services and disaster agency shall, before entering upon the duties, subscribe
to the following oath, which shall be filed with the coordinator: (1990 Code
§9.002; amd. 2011 Code)
I,                      , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; and I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government
of the United States or of the State by force or violence; and that during such
time as I am affiliated with the municipal Emergency Services and Disaster
Agency, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence.
(1990 Code §9.002)
6-2A-4: FUNCTIONS:
   A.   The local emergency services and disaster agency shall perform such
emergency management functions within the village as shall be prescribed in and
by the state emergency operations plan and program prepared by the governor,
and such orders, rules, and regulations as may be promulgated by the governor,
and in addition, shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may
be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other municipality or
quasi- municipality entered into as provided by the Illinois emergency
management agency act.
   B.   The local emergency services and disaster agency shall also, when
called upon by the village president, take whatsoever steps that can be taken
to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting from any
explosion, accident or other event of disastrous extent in the village in
addition to rendering such service in the event of disaster due to explosion of
atomic or other means from without or by means of sabotage or other disloyal
actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake, telecommunications failure or
other natural or technological causes. (1990 Code §9.004; amd. 2011 Code)
6-2A-5: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
   A.   Members Designated: All or any member of the municipal emergency
services and disaster agency may be designated as members of a mobile support
team created by the state director as provided by law.
   B.   Team Leader: The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated
by the coordinator of the municipal emergency services and disaster agency.
(1990 Code §9.005; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Compensation; Powers And Duties: Any member of a mobile support team
who is a municipal employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the
governor shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights,
and immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is
not a paid officer or employee of the village while so serving shall receive
from the state reasonable compensation as provided by law. (1990 Code §9.005)
6-2A-6: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The coordinator of the emergency services and disaster agency may negotiate
mutual aid agreements with other municipal corporations or political
subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be effective until it
has been approved by the board of trustees and by the state director of
emergency management. (1990 Code §9.006; amd. 2011 Code)
6-2A-7: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor declares that an emergency exists, it shall be the duty of the
municipal emergency services and disaster agency to cooperate fully with the
state emergency management agency and with the governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law. (1990 Code §9.007; amd. 2011 Code)
6-2A-8: COMPENSATION:
Members of the emergency services and disaster agency who are paid employees or
officers of the village, if called for training by the state director of
emergency management, shall receive for the time spent in such training the
same rate of pay as is attached to the position held; members who are not such
municipal employees or officers shall receive for such training time such
compensation as may be established by the board of trustees. (1990 Code §9.008;
amd. 2011 Code)
6-2A-9: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The finance director may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the emergency services and disaster agency as prescribed by the
state director, compensation for services and expenses of a mobile support team
while serving outside the village in response to a call by the state emergency
management agency, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to
emergency management activities as provided by law. (1990 Code §9.009; amd.
2011 Code)
6-2A-10: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   The board of trustees may, on recommendation of the coordinator of the
municipal emergency services and disaster agency, authorize any purchases or
contracts necessary to place the village in a position to combat effectively
any disaster from natural causes, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster.
   B.   In the event of any disaster due to explosion of atomic or other means
from without or by means of sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or from
fire, flood, earthquake, telecommunications failure or other natural or
technological causes, where the disaster has resulted in the governor declaring
a disaster to exist in the village, or is of such proportion as to amount to
such a disaster as would warrant such declaration by the governor, the local
coordinator of the emergency services and disaster agency is authorized, on
behalf of the village, to procure such services, supplies, equipment, or
materials as may be necessary to meet the emergency, without regard to the
statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law as a necessary
prerequisite to incurring any indebtedness against a village, as authorized by
the Illinois emergency management agency act; provided, that if the board of
trustees meets at such time, he shall act subject to the directions and
restrictions imposed by that body. (1990 Code §9.010; amd. 2011 Code)
6-2A-11: OFFICE:
The village manager is authorized to designate space in the village hall, or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the board of trustees, for the emergency
services and disaster agency as its office. (1990 Code §9.012; amd. 2011 Code)
6-2A-12: APPROPRIATION; TAX LEVY:
The board of trustees may make an appropriation for emergency services and
disaster purposes, and may levy therefor a tax not to exceed twenty five cents
($0.25) per capita in addition to all other taxes, as provided by the Illinois
emergency management agency act. (1990 Code §9.011; amd. 2011 Code)
6-2A-13: CONTINUITY IN OFFICE:
In the event that at the time or as a consequence of any disaster or occurrence
described in section
6-2A-1 of this article, the incumbent of any municipal office, position, or
place of employment is killed or rendered incapable of performing the duties of
such office or position, such office or position shall be filled, until such
time as a successor can be selected, in the manner prescribed by law, in the
following manner: (1990 Code §9.013)
   A.   Any such vacancy shall for the emergency period be filled by
appointment in the following order of preference:
      1.   Village manager.
      2.   Village president.
      3.   Remaining members of the board of trustees.
      4.   Village clerk.
      5.   Coordinator of the emergency services and disaster agency. (1990
Code §9.013; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   The person appointed in the manner prescribed herein to fill any such
office or position shall exercise all the duties and powers of that position
during the emergency and until such time as a successor can be appointed or
selected in the manner provided by law. (1990 Code §9.013)
6-2A-14: EMERGENCY LOCATIONS FOR VILLAGE GOVERNMENT; GOVERNMENTAL POWERS:
   A.   Whenever, due to an emergency resulting from the effects of an enemy
attack or the anticipated effects of a threatened enemy attack, it becomes
imprudent, inexpedient, or impossible to conduct the affairs of local
government at the regular or usual place or places thereof, the board of
trustees may meet at any place within or without the village limits on the call
of the presiding officer or any two (2) members of such governing body, and
shall proceed to establish and designate, by ordinance, resolution or other
manner, alternate or substitute sites or places as the emergency location or
locations of government where all or any part of the public business may be
transacted and conducted temporarily during the emergency situation. Such sites
or places may be within or without the territorial limits of the village and
may be within or without this state.
   B.   During the period when the public business is being conducted at the
emergency temporary location or locations, the governing body and other
officers of the village shall have and possess and shall exercise, at such
location or locations, all of the executive, legislative, and judicial powers
and functions conferred upon such body and officers by or under the laws of
this state. Such powers and functions may be exercised in light of the
exigencies of the emergency situation without regard to or compliance with time
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law and pertaining thereto,
and all acts of such body and officers shall be valid and binding as if
performed within the territorial limits of the village. (1990 Code §9.014)
ARTICLE B. CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
6-2B-1: Definitions
6-2B-2: Declaration Of Emergency
6-2B-3: Curfew
6-2B-4: Executive Orders
6-2B-5: Duration Of Emergency; Extension
6-2B-6: Notice Requirements
6-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
CIVIL EMERGENCY: Includes a "state of emergency", as set forth in 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-1-6, and a "disaster" and "public health emergency", as
set forth in 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3305/1 et seq., as defined to be:
   A.   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force or
violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to
execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
   B.   Any act of terrorism, a public health emergency, or any natural
disaster or manmade calamity, including flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado,
earthquake or explosion, within the corporate limits of the village, resulting
in the death or injury of persons, or the destruction of property, to such an
extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing, or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village,
excepting officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated
to duty with reference to said civil emergency. (1990 Code §8.001; amd. 2011
Code)
6-2B-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
Whenever an emergency, as defined in section
6-2B-1 of this article, exists, the village president shall declare the
existence by means of a written declaration setting forth the facts which
constitute the emergency. (1990 Code §8.002)
6-2B-3: CURFEW:
After proclamation of a civil emergency by the village president, he may order
a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village or to the
village as a whole as deemed advisable and applicable during such hours of the
day or night as deemed necessary in the interest of the public safety and
welfare. (1990 Code §8.003)
6-2B-4: EXECUTIVE ORDERS:
After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the village president may also, in
the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following
executive orders: (1990 Code §8.006)
   A.   Order the closing of retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof, wherein the consumption of alcoholic
beverages is permitted. (1990 Code §8.006; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.
   C.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing, or
giving of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
   D.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away of
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   E.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property. (1990 Code §8.006)
6-2B-5: DURATION OF EMERGENCY; EXTENSION:
The proclamation authorized in this article shall be effective for a period of
forty eight (48) hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the
village president indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The
village president shall have the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil
emergency at the end of each forty eight (48) hour period during the time the
civil emergency exists. However, the power to proclaim the existence of a local
disaster emergency shall further have a maximum limitation of seven (7) days,
except by or with the consent of the board of trustees; and the declaration of
a state of emergency shall expire not later than the adjournment of the first
regular meeting of the corporate authorities after the state of emergency is
declared. (1990 Code §8.003)
6-2B-6: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Upon issuing the proclamation authorized in this article, the village president
shall notify appropriate news media and shall cause three (3) copies of the
proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places within the village: (1990 Code §8.004)
Pingree Grove fire barn
Police department
Village hall
(1990 Code §8.004; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Animal Control Officer
6-3-3: Kennels, Pet Shops And Animal Shelters
6-3-4: Dog And Cat Licensing Requirements; Exemptions (Rep. by Ord. 2015-O-23,
7-20-2015)
6-3-5: Rabies Inoculation Required; Animal Bites
6-3-6: Number Of Dogs And Cats
6-3-7: Running At Large Prohibited; Restricted Areas
6-3-8: Impoundment, Redemption And Disposal Requirements
6-3-9: Nuisance Animals
6-3-10: Fowl And Livestock
6-3-11: Care And Treatment Of Animals
6-3-12: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
6-3-13: Injured Or Dead Animals
6-3-14: Extermination Of Pests
6-3-15: Hindering Enforcement Prohibited
6-3-16: Penalty
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
ALTERED ANIMAL: An animal which has been spayed or neutered by a licensed
veterinarian and which has thereby been rendered incapable of reproduction.
ANIMAL: Any living, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, not including man.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facilities operated, owned or maintained by a duly
incorporated Humane Society, animal welfare society or other nonprofit
organization whose purpose is to provide for and promote the welfare,
protection and humane treatment of animals.
CAT: Any animal of the family Felidae.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal which, without provocation, attacks or injures a
person who is peaceably conducting himself in any place where he lawfully may
be. Dangerous animals shall also include any animal which, because of its size,
vicious propensity or other characteristic, would constitute a danger to human
life, property or domestic animals if not restrained or kept in a safe manner.
DOG: Any animal of the family Canidae.
FOWL: Any domesticated birds, poultry or waterfowl.
HUMANE DISPATCH: Disposal by euthanasia.
KENNEL OPERATOR: Any person who operates an establishment, other than a pound
or animal shelter, where dogs and/or cats are maintained for boarding, training
or similar purposes for a fee or compensation; or who sells, exchanges, or
offers for adoption, with or without charge, dogs and/or cats which he has
produced or raised. A person who owns or harbors three (3) or fewer animals
shall not be considered a kennel operator.
LIVESTOCK: Any cattle, calves, sheep, swine, horses, mules, goats or other
animals, other than fowl, which can or may be used in and for the preparation
of meat or meat products for consumption by human beings or animals.
OWNER: Any person who has a right of property in an animal, who keeps or
harbors an animal, who has an animal in his care, who acts as custodian of an
animal, or who knowingly permits any domestic animal to remain on or about any
premises occupied by him.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other legal
entity.
PET SHOP OPERATOR: Any person who operates an establishment, other than a pound
or animal shelter, where animals are sold, offered for sale, exchanged, or
offered for adoption with or without charge. A person who sells, offers to
sell, exchanges or offers for adoption only such animals that he has produced
and raised shall not be considered a pet shop operator.
POUND: Any facility owned by, or operated under contract with, the village for
the purpose of impounding, housing or harboring seized, stray, homeless,
abandoned or unwanted animals.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any animal or animals which: a) chase passersby or passing
vehicles; b) attack other animals; c) is at large three (3) or more times
within a year's time; d) damages private or public property; or e) bark, howl,
cry, or run at large, so as to disrupt the peace of the neighborhood.
RESTRAINT: An animal shall be deemed under restraint if:
   A.   It is under the control of its owner or other responsible person by
means of a leash, cord, rope, strap, chain or lead held by such owner or person
and securely fastened to the collar or harness attached to the animal; or
   B.   It is securely enclosed, confined or restrained on the premises where
it lawfully may be so as to be unable to enter upon the public way or to molest
persons lawfully using the public way.
RUNNING AT LARGE: Any animal that is free of restraint off the premises of the
owner.
WILD ANIMALS: All naturally wild animals native to the state of Illinois. (Ord.
2006-27, 10-2-2006; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2016-O-14, 5-16-2016)
6-3-2: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The animal control officer is an officer designated by the board of trustees
and authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter including the
impoundment, redemption and disposal of animals. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006)
6-3-3: KENNELS, PET SHOPS AND ANIMAL SHELTERS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of pet shop
operator, kennel operator, animal shelter or any combination thereof without a
license therefor issued by the state of Illinois in accordance with the
Illinois animal welfare act 1 . Only one license shall be required for any
combination of businesses at one location.
   B.   Sanitary And Health Conditions: All kennel operators, pet shop
operators and animal shelters shall:
      1.   Maintain sanitary conditions in areas where animals are kept for any
period of time.
      2.   Provide sufficient and proper ventilation in all areas where animals
are kept for any period of time.
      3.   Provide adequate nutrition for all animals.
      4.   Take reasonable care to prevent the transmission of disease
including necessary veterinary care. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
6-3-4: DOG AND CAT LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; EXEMPTIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2015-O-23, 7-20-2015)
6-3-5: RABIES INOCULATION REQUIRED; ANIMAL BITES:
   A.   Inoculation Required: All persons who are the owners of any dog or cat
over four (4) months of age within the village shall have such animal
vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian so as to provide immunity from rabies for
one to three (3) years.
   B.   Animal Bites: The animal control officer shall investigate reports of
animal bites. If an animal has bitten a person, the animal control officer
shall notify the owner of the animal, and the animal shall be delivered
promptly to a licensed veterinarian who shall confine or cause to be confined
such animal as provided in the animal control act of the State of Illinois 1 .
If the owner is not known, the animal control officer shall take such animal to
a licensed veterinarian to be confined, as provided in said Animal Control Act.
(Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
6-3-6: NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS:
The number of dogs and cats that a person may keep on his property in the
Village is limited to a maximum of no more than three (3) dogs and no more than
three (3) cats, with the exception that a litter may be kept for a period of
time not exceeding four (4) months from birth. To otherwise exceed this maximum
shall be unlawful. The provisions of this section shall not apply to persons
who are licensed to engage in the businesses of pet shop operator, kennel
operator or animal shelter. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006)
6-3-7: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; RESTRICTED AREAS:
   A.   No person shall cause or permit any dog, cat, or other animal owned or
kept by him to run at large within the Village. Dogs, cats or other animals
which are on any street, alley or sidewalk, or any other public place, without
being held securely on a leash, shall be deemed to be running at large. It
shall be unlawful to permit any dog, cat or other animal to run at large on the
property of anyone but the owner thereof without the permission of the owner of
the aforementioned property. (Ord. 2008-32, 10-20-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Furthermore, no person shall cause or permit any dog, cat or other
animal owned or kept by him to enter upon any portion of any public park which
is utilized and/or improved as an athletic field (e.g., baseball diamond,
soccer field, basketball court), regardless of whether such animal is being
held securely on a leash or is at large, and no person shall cause or permit
any dog, cat or other animal owned or kept by him to run at large within any
public area that is fenced, or any other fenced area other than one owned by
the person with the animal. This prohibition shall also apply and extend to any
curtilage or areas in proximity to Village fields, including but not limited to
the area surrounding the Village's baseball fields at Wester Boulevard and
Emerald Drive.
   C.   Further, the Public Works Director is authorized and directed to
designate other Village owned or maintained parks and open spaces as being
prohibited areas for pets to enter upon, and to install appropriate signage so
designating the areas in question. The Public Works Director shall maintain a
current list of all parks so-designated and shall provide it to the public upon
request. The Public Works Director is authorized and directed to install
signage in any areas where deemed necessary or helpful to advise of the
requirements of this section. Any person who seeks to enter upon a Village
owned or operated park shall adhere to all posted regulations including those
pertaining to pets. (Ord. 2018-O-15, 7-2-2018)
6-3-8: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Authority To Impound: Unrestrained animals, abandoned animals, animals
running at large and animals maintained in violation of this chapter shall be
taken by the animal control officer and confined in a humane manner. (Ord.
2006-27, 10-2-2006)
   B.   Records Kept: The animal control officer shall maintain a record of all
impounded animals, including, if known, the name and address of the animal's
owner, description of the animal, sex of the animal, date of impoundment and
the date and manner of notice to the owner of the animal's impoundment. (Ord.
2006-27, 10-2-2006; amd. Ord. 2015-O-23, 7-20-2015)
   C.   Notice Of Impoundment: Where an animal is impounded, the animal control
officer shall notify the owner by telephone or other means of the impoundment
and of the procedure to regain custody of the animal. In the event the owner
cannot be contacted on the first day of impoundment, a written notice will be
forwarded by certified mail, return receipt requested, advising the owner that
the animal will be disposed of if not claimed within seven (7) days of when the
notice was mailed. Where the owner cannot be located, the Police Department may
utilize an alternate or shortened time frame. (Ord. 2016-O-14, 5-16-2016)
   D.   Redemption Of Impounded Animals:
      1.   Unidentified Animal: An unidentified animal may be redeemed by the
owner before disposal of the animal.
      2.   Identified Animal: An identified animal may be redeemed by the owner
on or before the seventh day after notice of impoundment was mailed to the
owner in accordance with this chapter, or before disposal of the animal.
      3.   Fees: The owner of an impounded animal shall pay a redemption fee of
fifteen dollars ($15.00); provided, however, that the redemption fee for the
first impoundment shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for dogs and/or cats wearing a
current dog and/or cat license tag. The owner shall also pay six dollars
($6.00) for each day the animal was impounded for the cost of boarding the
animal. The animal shall not be released to the owner until these fees are
paid. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006)
      4.   Inoculations Required: Any person redeeming or claiming a lost cat
or dog shall provide proof of the animal's current rabies inoculation in a form
acceptable to the Police Department. (Ord. 2016-O-14, 5-16-2016)
   E.   Humane Disposal: Any animal not redeemed in accordance with this
section may be offered for adoption, humanely dispatched or offered to an
animal shelter. If accepted by an animal shelter, the animal shelter may offer
the animal for adoption or humanely dispatch the animal.
   F.   Interference With Impoundment Or Disposal Prohibited: No person shall
prevent or interfere with the impounding or disposal of any animal in
accordance with this section. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006)
6-3-9: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   B.   Any dog or cat which habitually barks, howls, yelps, cries, or runs at
large so as to disrupt the peace and quiet of the neighborhood or as to
materially disturb or annoy persons in the neighborhood is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006)
6-3-10: FOWL AND LIVESTOCK:
   A.   Zoning: The raising of poultry, rabbits and other small animals, up to
a total of five (5), for private, noncommercial use, exclusive of domestic
family pets kept inside a residence, shall only be permitted on a tract of land
of one acre or more and provided said poultry, rabbits and other small animals
are housed no closer than one hundred feet (100') from any residence other than
that of the owner or occupant of the tract of land of the property. No
roosters, or any pea-fowl or guinea fowl, may be kept on a tract of land less
than five (5) acres in size. Except for a domestic family pet kept inside a
residence, poultry, rabbits and other small animals shall be housed in
accordance with subparagraph B, Housing, below.
   B.   Housing:
      1.   All poultry, rabbits and other small animals, exclusive of domestic
family pets kept inside a residence, shall be kept within a pen, coop, building
or other enclosure sufficient in size and strength to confine such animals to
the owner's property; except, that any such animal may be tethered securely to
a fixed object outside the enclosure, but only if the animal is so confined to
the owner's property.
      2.   No pen, coop, building or other enclosure used for the purpose of
housing poultry (with the exception of homing pigeons) shall be erected or
maintained within one hundred feet (100') of any occupied residence other than
that of the owner.
      3.   Every person maintaining a pen, coop, building, yard or enclosure
for fowl or livestock shall keep such area clean, sanitary and free from all
refuse, and the dirt and refuse shall be disposed of in a clean and sanitary
fashion.
   C.   Feed Storage: All feed for poultry, rabbits and other small animals,
exclusive of domestic family pets kept inside a residence, shall be kept in
containers that are rodentproof until put out for consumption by such poultry,
rabbits and other small animals.
(Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006; amd. Ord. 2024-O-05, 4-15-2024)
6-3-11: CARE AND TREATMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall cruelly treat, beat, torment, overload, overwork or
otherwise abuse any animal. No owner of an animal shall fail to provide such
animal with sufficient and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and
protection from the weather, veterinary care when necessary to prevent
suffering, and humane care and treatment.
   B.   No person shall cause any animal to be subjected to cruel or inhumane
treatment, including, but not limited to:
      1.   The unnecessary separation of a female animal from its offspring
before such time as the offspring can survive such separation.
      2.   Painting, dyeing or otherwise coloring any animal as a novelty or
offering such animal for sale, exchange or adoption. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006)
      3.   Giving an animal as a prize or inducement to any person to enter any
competition, contest or place of amusement.
      4.   Offering to give an animal as an inducement for the purpose of
attracting trade. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
      5.   Promoting, inciting or conducting animal fights or the intentional
killing of animals for wagering or entertainment.
      6.   Keeping an animal in any container or other enclosed area without
sufficient food, water, light, ventilation and care for an unreasonable length
of time so as to cause undue discomfort or suffering.
      7.   Offering baby chicks, ducklings or goslings for sale, barter or to
be given away as pets or novelties.
      8.   Holding a greased pig contest.
      9.   The unnecessary killing of any species of animal except a rat,
mouse, mole or vole.
      10.   The transporting of any living animal on the running board,
fenders, hood or other outside part of any vehicle unless suitable harness,
cage or enclosure is provided so as to protect such animal from falling or
being thrown therefrom.
      11.   Keeping any animal in any place which is hazardous, unclean or
unwholesome. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006)
6-3-12: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Unwanted Animals: No owner may abandon an animal. Unwanted animals
shall be offered to responsible persons for adoption or to an animal shelter or
pound. If an unwanted animal is not accepted by either an animal shelter or
pound, the animal shall be humanely dispatched by a licensed veterinarian.
   B.   Keeping Wild Animals:
      1.   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his premises any wild
animal as a pet or for display or exhibition purposes unless he has obtained a
state permit. This subsection B1 shall not apply to zoological parks performing
animal exhibitions or circuses.
      2.   The animal control officer shall have the power to release or order
the release of any wild animal capable of surviving in the wild and/or turn
same over to an agency with a state permit to house wildlife.
   C.   Excrement: It is unlawful for any owner to permit his dog or cat to
discharge such animal's excrement upon any public or private property within
the village, other than the owner's property, if such owner does not
immediately thereafter remove and clean up such animal's excrement from the
public or private property. This subsection shall not apply to an owner who is
visually handicapped if such owner's dog is a seeing eye guide dog.
   D.   Keeping Dangerous Animals:
      1.   Whenever an animal control officer determines, upon personal
observation and investigation, that an animal is a "dangerous animal", as
defined in section
6-3-1 of this chapter, the officer shall notify the owner of the animal in
writing of his determination, the reasons for his determination, the
requirements of this chapter regulating the keeping of dangerous animals, and
the procedures to appeal the determination of the officer. Notification shall
be by personal service or certified mail, return receipt requested.
      2.   Any owner of an animal which has been determined dangerous as set
forth in this subsection may appeal that determination in writing to the
village president or his designee within seven (7) days of service of the
notice. The village president or his designee, within seven (7) days of receipt
of a written appeal, shall hold a hearing on whether or not the animal is
dangerous, as defined in section
6-3-1 of this chapter. The village president or his designee shall render a
decision within seven (7) days of the close of the hearing.
      3.   No owner shall permit any dangerous animal to be on any private or
public property, other than the owner's property, unless such animal is
securely muzzled or caged. Adequate safeguards shall be taken to prevent
unauthorized access to a dangerous animal on the owner's premises by persons
lawfully on the premises.
      4.   Any dangerous animal running at large which constitutes a danger to
persons or property and which cannot safely be taken or impounded may be
destroyed by the animal control officer or any person authorized by the
village; provided, however, that in all cases where the animal has seized or
bitten any person or animal with its teeth or jaws so as to cause a puncture or
abrasion of the skin, or where the animal is suspected to be rabid, no injury
should be done to the head of the animal, and it is the duty of the person
slaying said animal to immediately deliver the carcass to the animal control
officer or a licensed veterinarian.
   E.   Diseased Animals: It shall be unlawful for an owner to permit a
domestic animal afflicted with a contagious disease to run at large or to be
exposed in any public place whereby the health of any other animal or man may
be affected.
   F.   Hunting And Training: It shall be unlawful to hunt or trap game animals
within the village limits, and it shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
killing any animal other than as prescribed by law in the village.
   G.   Proper Restraint:
      1.   Persons who utilize invisible fencing shall be required to
prominently display signs on their property immediately adjacent to any rights
of way that abut or cross their property indicating that the dog(s) thereon is
controlled by an invisible fence. All invisible fencing must be set back at
least forty eight inches (48") from any public right of way or easement.
      2.   Persons who utilize ropes, cables, chains or other similar devices
to restrain their dog(s) shall be required to utilize such devices configured
in such a fashion as to prevent the dog(s) from entering upon any public right
of way or easement, public property or private property not owned by the person
who owns, controls or possesses the dog(s).
      3.   At any time when a dog is not contained in a fully enclosed
structure and is not contained by a fence, rope or invisible fence under the
provisions of subsection G1 of this section, such dog must at all times be
securely connected to a leash that is held by a person of sufficient strength
and capability to restrain the dog.
      4.   No dog may be permitted to enter upon private property without the
consent of the property owner unless such dog is restrained by a leash in
accordance with subsection G2 of this section and unless such dog is confined
to a public right of way.
      5.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to dogs leading
blind persons. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006)
   H.   Tag Removal: (Rep. by Ord. 2015-O-23, 7-20-2015)
   I.   Animals In Heat: The owner of any animal in heat shall not keep, harbor
or otherwise maintain such animal in the village unless the same is confined in
a kennel or veterinary hospital or in an enclosed building on the owner's
property during the entire period such animal is in heat. Any animal in heat
which is not confined is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be
apprehended and impounded upon the order of the village manager. (Ord. 2006-27,
10-2-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
   J.   Muzzles: Whenever the village president, by proclamation, shall declare
that danger from rabies is great, it shall be unlawful to permit or allow any
dog upon the public streets, alleys, or sidewalks or other places unless such
dog is securely muzzled. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006)
6-3-13: INJURED OR DEAD ANIMALS:
   A.   Any person who knowingly causes an animal to be injured or killed shall
immediately attempt to notify the owner of such injury or death. If the owner
cannot be located, the person shall immediately notify the animal control
officer of the incident.
   B.   If the animal control officer locates an injured animal, he shall
attempt to locate the owner of such animal. If the owner of an injured animal
cannot be located, the animal control officer shall deliver the injured animal
to a licensed veterinarian for veterinary care including humane dispatch if
appropriate. The owner is responsible for paying for veterinary services
provided to his animal and shall pay for such services before the animal is
released. In the event that the owner refuses to claim the animal, or if the
animal dies before claimed by the owner, he is still responsible for said
veterinary services.
   C.   The animal control officer locating a mortally wounded animal may
humanely dispatch the animal if the owner cannot be located. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-
2-2006)
6-3-14: EXTERMINATION OF PESTS:
This chapter does not affect the extermination of rats, mice, moles or voles.
(Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-2006)
6-3-15: HINDERING ENFORCEMENT PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to hinder or molest the animal control officer or any
other person charged in the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-2-
2006)
6-3-16: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
2006-27, 10-2-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, SAFETY AND MORALS
SECTION:
6-4-1: State Criminal Code And Village Regulations Adopted; Citation Options
6-4-2: Fighting
6-4-3: Disorderly Conduct Prohibited
6-4-4: Alcohol Without Liquid (AWOL) Machines Prohibited
6-4-5: Disorderly House
6-4-6: Sound Apparatus
6-4-7: Open Container
6-4-8: Noise In Public Places
6-4-9: Boxing
6-4-10: Firearms And Air Guns
6-4-11: Burglars' Tools
6-4-12: Bows And Arrows, Crossbows
6-4-13: Interference With Public Property
6-4-14: Playing Upon Railroad Cars
6-4-15: Drugs
6-4-16: Synthetic Alternative Drugs
6-4-17: Emergencies
6-4-18: Barbed Wire Fences
6-4-19: Noise Control Regulation
6-4-20: Electronic Sound Systems
6-4-21: Theft Of Village Property
6-4-22: False Fire Alarms And Emergencies
6-4-23: Curfew
6-4-24: Assault
6-4-25: Battery
6-4-26: Criminal Damage To Property
6-4-27: Criminal Trespass To Real Property
6-4-28: Graffiti Defacement
6-4-29: Retail Theft
6-4-30: Public Elimination
6-4-31: Theft
6-4-32: Fireworks
6-4-33: Parental Responsibility
6-4-34: Tobacco Use, Consumption, Possession By Minors
6-4-35: Nuisance Gatherings
6-4-36: Alcoholic Liquor Related Offenses
6-4-37: Windows, Stairways, Exits
6-4-38: Solicitors
6-4-39: Possession Of Cannabis Or Drug Paraphernalia
6-4-40: Penalties
6-4-1: STATE CRIMINAL CODE AND VILLAGE REGULATIONS ADOPTED; CITATION OPTIONS:
   A.   The Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et
seq., and any and all amendments thereto which may hereinafter be enacted by
the general assembly of the state of Illinois, is hereby expressly adopted and
incorporated in its entirety by reference as the criminal code for the village.
Reference to any provision contained in said criminal code shall be made by
referring to the same section number for each such section as contained in the
Illinois criminal code and denoting the nature of the charge as indicated in
subsection B of this section.
   B.   In supplement to the adoption of the Illinois criminal code, the
miscellaneous regulations set out in the balance of the municipal code are
hereby adopted and shall remain in full force and effect unless otherwise
amended or repealed by further ordinance. The village shall have the option of
charging any offense under either the Illinois criminal code as a state charge,
the Illinois criminal code as a local charge, or a local ordinance as a local
charge, and shall so designate on any citation or charging instrument. (Ord.
2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-2: FIGHTING:
No person shall physically fight with another person without legal
justification. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT PROHIBITED:
   A.   A person commits disorderly conduct when that person knowingly:
      1.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace; or
      2.   Transmits in any manner to a fire department or police department a
false alarm of fire or emergency, knowing at the time of such transmission that
there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such fire or emergency
exists; or
      3.   Interferes with any fire apparatus, signal or mechanism used as a
fire defense, or injures any wire connected with any firebox, of which is a
part of an electric circuit connected with any fire alarm in the village; or
      4.   Transmits in any manner to another, a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such bomb or explosive
is concealed in such place; or
      5.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or
other employee of the village, a report to the effect that an offense,
statutory or otherwise, has been committed, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such an
offense has been committed; or
      6.   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it; or
      7.   Transmits in any manner to the police department or fire department
of any municipality or fire protection district, or any privately owned and
operated ambulance service, a false request for an ambulance, emergency medical
technician-ambulance or emergency medical technician-paramedic knowing at the
time there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such assistance is
required.
      8.   Carries, displays, brandishes or implies the possession or use, in a
threatening or menacing manner, without authority of law, any: a) firearm,
rifle, shotgun, machine gun, pistol, revolver, dagger, razor, dangerous knife,
stiletto, knuckles, slingshot, billy, stun gun or taser, crossbow, common or
compound bows, underwater speargun, blackjack, sand club, sandbag, throwing
star, nunchakus, or any broken bottle or other piece of glass; b) any air gun,
air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, BB gun, paintball gun, pellet gun or any
implement that is not a firearm which impels a breakable paintball containing
washable marking colors, or a pellet constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead
or other hard materials with a force that reasonably is expected to cause
bodily harm; or c) any look alike weapon which by its appearance, including
shape, color, size, markings or lack thereof, or any other identifying physical
characteristics, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the object is a
weapon which could cause bodily harm, an object containing noxious or
deleterious liquid, gas or substance or other dangerous weapon. A person also
commits disorderly conduct when the person is in possession of any item
described in item b or c of the preceding sentence while committing any other
violation of this code or federal or state law.
   B.   A sworn peace officer of the village of Pingree Grove shall be
authorized to sign a complaint for disorderly conduct where the officer
observes the violation as outlined above. Where a violation is based upon a
breach of the peace, provided that the officer is able to establish, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that the officer observed the impact upon a
third party (i.e., the occurrence of a breach of the peace or imminent
probability of the same as contemplated by subsection A1 of this section), the
officer may sign a complaint for disorderly conduct. Where possible, the
complaining witness shall be a third party and/or an off duty police officer
who observed and was subject to the conduct at issue. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-
2016)
6-4-4: ALCOHOL WITHOUT LIQUID (AWOL) MACHINES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definition: "Alcohol without liquid (AWOL) machine" means a device
designed, manufactured, marketed or used for the purpose of mixing alcoholic
liquor with oxygen, air or another gas to produce a mist or vapor for
inhalation or snorting for nonmedicinal purposes. It shall not include such
medical devices as inhalers, nebulizers, atomizers or other devices properly
prescribed by a physician and being used to dispense a prescribed medication to
the holder of such prescription.
   B.   Use Of AWOL Machine Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to possess, sell,
transfer or use an alcohol without liquid (AWOL) machine or device within the
village of Pingree Grove.
   C.   Use Of Medical Device For Mixing Alcohol Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful to use a medical device such as an inhaler, nebulizer, atomizer or
other device properly prescribed by a physician for the purpose of mixing
alcoholic liquor with oxygen, air or another gas to produce a mist or vapor for
inhalation or snorting for nonmedicinal purposes within the village of Pingree
Grove.
   D.   Seizure: The AWOL machine or device is subject to immediate seizure by
the police department and destruction, upon order of the circuit court. (Ord.
2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-5: DISORDERLY HOUSE:
   A.   Disorderly House; Business: No person shall keep or maintain any place
of business where any person is allowed or permitted to make any loud or
raucous noise clearly audible from fifty feet (50') or more from the place of
business; or to alarm or disturb another so as to create a breach of the peace;
where any minor is permitted to consume intoxicating drinks of any kind; or
where any person is permitted to consume or possess marijuana in violation of
this code.
   B.   Disorderly House; Residential: No person, whether such person is an
owner, renter, or otherwise responsible for, in custody of, or entrusted with a
given dwelling unit or residential property, is allowed or shall be permitted
to make any loud or raucous noise clearly audible from fifty feet (50') or more
from the residence; or to alarm or disturb another so as to create a breach of
the peace; or where any minor is permitted to consume intoxicating drinks of
any kind; or where any person is permitted to consume or possess marijuana in
violation of this code. For purposes of this section, the following persons may
be cited for a violation: 1) the owner of an owner occupied residence; 2) the
renter or tenant of a rental property; 3) in the absence of the owner or
renter, any person within a residential dwelling unit where such unit is in
violation of this section; 4) any person permitted by the owner or renter of a
residential dwelling unit to utilize such space at a time when such unit is in
violation of this section.
   C.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CHIEF OF POLICE: The chief of police of the village of Pingree Grove or a
designee thereof.
   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY: Property upon which two (2) or more nuisance
activities within a rolling twelve (12) month period have occurred as a result
of any three (3) separate factual events that have been reported to, discovered
by, or investigated by any law enforcement agency and have been determined by
such agency to constitute a "nuisance activity", as defined herein, whether or
not any person is charged with or convicted of a nuisance activity. Once a
property is identified as a chronic nuisance property, it shall remain as the
same for a period of twenty four (24) months from the latest of: 1) the date on
which a qualifying "nuisance activity" (as defined herein) occurs; or 2) the
date on which a property is identified as a chronic nuisance property.
   CONTROL: The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract, or govern
conduct that occurs on that property.
   NUISANCE ACTIVITY: Any of the following activities, behaviors, or conduct,
as defined by federal, state, or village ordinance, code or statute. In the
case of any nuisance activity described below for which a specific statutory
citation is provided, any activity which violates an applicable federal, state
or village code or ordinance which regulates or prohibits substantially the
same behavior shall be deemed to be a nuisance activity. Nuisance activities
include:
      1.   Disorderly conduct as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
26-1.
      2.   Unlawful use of weapons as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/24-1 et seq.
      3.   Mob action as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1.
      4.   Discharge of a firearm as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/24-1.2 and 1.5.
      5.   Gambling as defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1.
      6.   Possession, manufacture, or delivery of controlled substances as
defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/401 et seq.
      7.   Public indecency as defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
30.
      8.   Assault or battery or any related offense as defined in 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/12-1 et seq.
      9.   Sexual abuse or related offense as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-1.50 et seq.
      10.   Prostitution as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14
et seq.
      11.   Criminal damage to property as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-1 et seq.
      12.   Possession, cultivation, manufacture, or delivery of cannabis as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq.
      13.   Illegal consumption or possession of alcohol as defined in 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.
      14.   Criminal housing management defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/12-5.1.
      15.   Structure unfit for human occupancy as defined in the village's
property maintenance code.
      16.   Unsafe structure as defined in the village's property maintenance
code.
      17.   Unlawful structure as defined in the village's property maintenance
code.
      18.   Multiple and serious violations of the village's property
maintenance code continuing after written notice has been dispatched to the
property owner or an occupant of the property.
      19.   Activity that constitutes a felony or class A misdemeanor pursuant
to a federal or Illinois statute.
      20.   A violation of any village code pertaining to the care, restraint,
permitted number of, or cleanup after domestic or nondomestic animals.
      21.   A violation of any applicable state or village regulation or
statute pertaining to loud noise, loud music, breach of the peace, disturbing
the peace, any conduct which has been defined by the village as a nuisance, or
any violation of this code.
   OWNER: Any person, partnership, land trust, or corporation having any legal
or equitable interest in the property. Owner includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   A mortgagee in possession in who is vested:
         a.   All or part of the legal title to the property.
         b.   All or part of the beneficial ownership and the rights to the
present use and enjoyment of the premises.
      2.   An occupant who can control what occurs on the property.
      3.   Any person acting as an agent of an owner as defined herein.
   PERMIT: To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act.
   PERSON: Any natural person, association, partnership, corporation, or other
entity.
   PERSON IN CHARGE: Any person in actual or constructive possession of a
property, including, but not limited to, an owner or occupant of property under
his or her ownership or control.
   PROPERTY: Any real property, including land and that which is affixed,
incidental, or pertinent to land, including, but not limited to, any premises,
room, house, building, or structure, or any separate part or portion thereof,
whether permitted or not.
   D.   Violations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any property within the village to become
or remain a chronic nuisance property in violation of this section.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person or person in charge to permit a
property to become or remain a chronic nuisance property.
      3.   Each calendar day that a violation of this section occurs, or each
day upon which any of the activities defined herein as nuisance activities
occurs, shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
   E.   Procedure: When the chief of police of the village receives one or more
reports documenting the occurrence of a nuisance activity on or within a
property, the chief of police shall independently review such reports to
determine whether they describe nuisance activities. Should the chief of police
determine that the reports describe two (2) or more nuisance activities as
described in this section, the chief of police may:
      1.   Notify the person in charge in writing that the property is in
danger of becoming a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the
following information:
         a.   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the property.
         b.   A statement that the Pingree Grove police department has
information that the property may be a chronic nuisance property, with a
concise description of the nuisance activities that may exist or that have
occurred, and a copy of this section.
         c.   Service shall be made by posting a copy of this notice, and all
required documentation hereunder, on the door of the property, by personal
service, or by first class mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested,
addressed to the property believed to be a chronic nuisance property, or such
other place which is likely to give notice of the determination by the chief of
police.
         d.   A copy of the notice shall be served on the taxpayer of record at
such address as shown on the tax rolls of the county and/or the occupant, at
the address of the property, if these persons are different from the person in
charge, and shall be made either personally or by first class mail, postage
prepaid, and said notice shall indicate that it shall be immediately forwarded
to the owner of the property, if different from the taxpayer of record.
         e.   The failure of any person to receive notice that the property may
be a chronic nuisance property shall not invalidate or otherwise affect the
proceedings under this section.
      2.   No person may be charged with violation of this section relative to
any specific property before the date which is two (2) business days after
dispatch of the notice described above.
      3.   Any person receiving notice that a property has been identified as a
chronic nuisance property may appeal the finding of the chief of police
regarding the property to the president of the village of Pingree Grove by
submitting a letter to the president at the village hall within fourteen (14)
days of the date on which the notice was dispatched to the person. The
president shall review the documentation considered by the chief of police
which may be released to him, along with any written materials submitted by the
person seeking review in their letter to the president. The determination by
the village president shall be made within seven (7) business days of receipt
of the written appeal, and shall be the final level of village review.
   F.   Enforcement:
      1.   Ordinance Violation: The village may prosecute any chronic nuisance
property as an ordinance violation in the appropriate court of the Kane County
circuit courts. Upon a finding of guilty, the court shall enter a fine of not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per day for a first offense, not
less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day for a second offense, and not
less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per day for a third or
subsequent offense, with the maximum per day fine being not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
      2.   Abatement Of Nuisance: The village may commence an action to abate a
chronic nuisance property. Upon being satisfied by affidavits or other sworn
evidence that an alleged chronic nuisance property exists, the court may enter
a temporary restraining order or a preliminary injunction to enjoin any
defendant from maintaining such nuisance, may enter an order restraining any
defendant from removing or interfering with all property used in connection
with the chronic nuisance property, and may enter an order establishing a civil
penalty for violation of this section (in accordance with subsection F1 of this
section), or impose other monetary damages against the defendant(s). In any
such action, the village shall also file a claim for reimbursement of any
attorney fees, legal costs, or other costs incurred by the village in enforcing
this section, whatsoever, which costs may be taxed to the defendant upon order
of court. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-6: SOUND APPARATUS:
   A.   No person shall play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or
operated, any radio or other device for receiving broadcast sound, reproducing
recorded sound or amplifying sound if the device is located:
      1.   In any motor vehicle on the public way; and if the sound generated
by the device is clearly audible to a person with normal hearing at a distance
greater than fifty feet (50') from the device.
      2.   On any private property, where the sound generated by the device or
motor vehicle is clearly audible to a person with normal hearing at a distance
greater than fifty feet (50') from the device.
   B.   This section shall not apply to: 1) any person participating in a
parade or public assembly for which a permit has been obtained from the village
during the duration of such event; 2) a person with any other village issued
permit for outdoor entertainment or which authorizes the sound amplifying
device, during the duration of the permitted event; 3) an event conducted by a
homeowners' association for any residential component of the village; or 4) to
an event conducted after issuance of written approval by the chief of police,
if conducted within the specifications approved by the chief. The chief of
police shall be authorized to establish a procedure for application and review
of such permit requests. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-7: OPEN CONTAINER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on any street, alley, park or
other public way (including sidewalks and rights of way) an open container of
any beverage containing any alcohol or alcoholic liquors, unless such public
area is a permitted area under the terms of a then valid village issued liquor
license. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-8: NOISE IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any reason within the village to ring any bell, sound
any gong or blow any whistle or horn other than a musical instrument used in
connection with a band, or use any sound signal upon a vehicle except as a
danger signal, or to make any other or unusual noise upon any street or other
place in close proximity thereto. This shall not apply to fire apparatus,
ambulances, police motorcycles, or whistles used by police or by factories for
time signals. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-9: BOXING:
No person shall permit, engage or participate, within the village, in any
boxing or sparring exhibition, match or contest whether as proprietor,
promoter, manager, spectator, principal or otherwise, without a permit issued
by the village chief of police or designee, on terms and conditions acceptable
to the chief of police. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-10: FIREARMS AND AIR GUNS:
   A.   Discharge: No person shall discharge any rifle, shotgun, pistol,
revolver or similar firearm, instrument or weapon, or any prohibited projectile
weapon, within the village. No person shall carry any prohibited projectile
weapon, except unloaded and within a case, when on any public street, sidewalk
or other public property, or when upon any private property not owned by such
person.
   B.   Unlawful Carrying: No person shall carry concealed upon or about one's
person within the village, any pistol, revolver, derringer, bowie knife,
switchblade knife, razor, slingshot, metallic knuckles or any other weapon.
   C.   Exception: This section shall not apply to any peace officer in the
village in the discharge of official duties.
   D.   Confiscation Of Weapons: Any weapon adjudged by any court to have been
worn or carried by any person in violation of the provisions of this section
shall be forfeited or confiscated to the village of Pingree Grove and shall be
thereafter destroyed by order of the court.
   E.   Definition: For purposes of this section, a "prohibited projectile
weapon" shall include any air gun, BB gun, pellet gun, or other air, compressed
air or spring powered weapon that discharges hard projectiles made of plastic,
metal, or other similar hard materials, regardless of caliber or muzzle
velocity. It shall expressly include any BB gun, slingshot, pellet gun (whether
powered by a spring, pump air system, compressed air, or another mechanical
device), any airsoft gun, and any gun defined as an air rifle under 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 535/0.01. Additionally, a prohibited projectile
weapon shall include: 1) any paintball gun, slingshot or other device that uses
a spring, battery, compressed air, or other mechanism to lob or discharge a
paint, soap, or other liquid or powder filled capsule/bullet/projectile; and 2)
any device that uses an explosive charge to launch, fire or discharge a
projectile of any kind. It shall not include any toy that does not use any
explosive charge and that only discharges a projectile made of soft foam or
another soft substance at a low velocity; and 3) Orbeez gun, such as water
pellet guns, gel blasters, or splatterball guns.
   F.   State Licensed Concealed Carry:
      1.   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing prohibitions or any other
applicable village regulation, the lawful possession, display or use of a
concealed firearm in strict conformity with all applicable then current state
statutes and regulations applicable thereto, by a person who has been issued
and is actually in possession of a valid, current, state issued concealed carry
permit after completion of all required training and after compliance with all
statutory prerequisites, shall not be unlawful under this code. Any violation
of applicable state regulations shall render the immunities of this section
inapplicable.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to display a false, fraudulent, forged,
expired, misleading or otherwise invalid concealed carry permit or to give
false information to a police officer regarding the existence, validity or
other facts relating to the issuance of such a concealed carry permit. It shall
be unlawful to use or attempt to use a concealed carry permit belonging to any
other person. It shall be unlawful to possess a fraudulent, forged or false
concealed carry permit.
      3.   It shall be a violation of this code and unlawful to engage in any
violation of the then current version of the applicable Illinois statute or
statutes which permit the concealed carry of firearms. The then current,
applicable provisions of state law are adopted as a component of this section,
by reference, as if fully restated herein.
(Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016; amd. Ord. 2024-O-18, 9-3-2024)
6-4-11: BURGLARS' TOOLS:
No person shall have in his or her possession in the village any burglars'
instruments or tools unless it is shown that such possession is innocent or for
a lawful purpose. Burglars' instruments or tools include lock picks, any device
designed or intended to defeat a lock or alarm system (including slim jims and
other automobile lock defeat devices), provided that a licensed locksmith,
sworn peace officer, authorized municipal community service officer or tow
truck driver may possess the foregoing items while in the performance of their
official duties. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-12: BOWS AND ARROWS, CROSSBOWS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot any bow, crossbow or other
device designed to shoot arrows in any place within the village at a target or
other object at a distance greater than twenty (20) yards or where any person
or property is likely to be struck, or in any way injured thereby. Only field
tip or target tip arrows may be discharged. An arrow which lands on property
other than the property from which it was discharged, shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of the provisions of this section.
   B.   In addition to the above restrictions, no person under sixteen (16)
years of age may shoot any bow designed to shoot arrows unless under the direct
supervision of an adult twenty one (21) years of age or older. (Ord. 2016-O-06,
4-4-2016)
6-4-13: INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "public property" shall
mean any real or personal property of any kind or description in which the
state of Illinois, the village of Pingree Grove or any other municipality,
local government or other public body has an ownership interest or right to
possession or use.
   B.   Prohibited Conduct:
      1.   Public Property: No person shall injure, deface or destroy any
public property without prior permission of the village president or designee.
      2.   Drainage Systems: No person shall stop or obstruct the passage of
water or other effluent upon any public way or public sewer, culvert, water
pipe, hydrant or other drainage system laid, placed or maintained by any public
authority.
      3.   Streetlights And Utility Wires: No person shall intentionally or
recklessly break, deface, disturb or interfere with, or in any way injure or
destroy any electric light, lamp, globe or any part of or appurtenance thereto,
used in, upon or about any public way. No person shall intentionally or
recklessly break, injure, destroy or interfere with any electric, telephone or
telegraph wire, or any other utility medium, including television cable and gas
transmission media used in, upon or about the public way. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-
2016)
6-4-14: PLAYING UPON RAILROAD CARS:
No unauthorized person shall play upon or get, or attempt to get upon or about
any locomotive, engine, car or train of cars, or any platform or step thereof
in the village. No unauthorized person shall cross a railroad track except at a
designated street crossing. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-15: DRUGS:
   A.   No doctor, druggist or other person shall, in the village, make, sell,
put up, prepare or administer any prescription, decoction or medicine under any
deception or fraudulent name, direction or pretense.
   B.   No person shall, in the village, hold for sale, or sell any poisonous
medicine or substance, except for lawful purposes, nor unless such person is
competent to give the proper directions and precautions as to the use of the
same; nor shall any bottle, box, parcel or receptacle thereof be delivered to
any person unless the same is marked poison, nor to any person who intends it
for any illegal or improper use or purpose. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-16: SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires different meaning:
   MISBRANDED DRUG: The same meaning as found in the Illinois food, drug and
cosmetics act, 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 620/1 et seq.
   PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG: Any product containing a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen, as those terms
are defined herein such as, but not limited to, the examples of brand names or
identifiers listed and incorporated herein.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID: Any laboratory created compound that functions
similar to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC),
including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material,
compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including isomers,
esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor
agonist, such as:
JWH-007 (1-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole)
JWH-015 ((2-Methyl-1-propyl-1H-indol-3-yl)-1- naphthalenylmethanone)
JWH-018 (1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole)
JWH-019 (1-hexyl-3-(naphthalen-1-oyl)indole)
JWH-073 (naphthalen-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3- yl)methanone)
JWH-081 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol- 3-yl)methanone)
JWH-098 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentyl-2- methylindol-3-yl)methanone)
JWH-122 (1-Pentyl-3-(4-methyl-1-naphthoyl)indole)
JWH-164 (7-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol- 3-yl)methanone
JWH-200 (1-(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl)- naphthalen-1-ylmethanone)
JWH-203 (2-(2-chlorophenyl)-1-(1-pentylindol-3- yl)ethanone
JWH-210 (4-ethylnaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3- yl)methanone
JWH-250 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole)
JWH-251 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methylphenylacetyl)indole)
JWH-398 (1-pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1-naphthoyl)indole)
HU-210 ((6aR,10aR)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl- 3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-ol)
HU-211 ((6aS,10aS)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl- 3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-ol)
HU-308 ([(1R,2R,5R)-2-[2,6-dimethoxy-4-(2- methyloctan-2-yl)phenyl]-7,7-
dimethyl-4- bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-3-enyl] methanol)
HU-331 ((3-hydroxy-2-[(1R,6R)-3-methyl-6-(1- methylethenyl)-2-cyclohexen-1-yl]-
5-pentyl-2,5- cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione)
CP 55,940 (2-[(1R,2R,5R)-5-hydroxy-2-(3- hydroxypropyl) cyclohexyl]- 5-(2-
methyloctan-2- yl)phenol)
CP 47,497 (2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]- 5- (2- methyloctan-2-yl)phenol) and
its homologues
WIN 55,212-2 ((R)-(+)-[2,3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4- morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo
[1,2,3-de)-1,4- benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-nepthalenylmethanone)
RCS-4 ((4-methoxyphenyl)(1-pentyl-1H-indol-3- yl)methanone)
RCS-8 (1-(1-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-1H-indol-3-yl)-2- (2-methoxyphenyl)ethanone)
   SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/HALLUCINOGEN: Any compound that mimics the effects of
any federally controlled schedule I substance, including, but not limited to,
any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance and their analog (including salts, isomers, esters,
ethers and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a psychedelic/
hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system and/or brain, such as:
2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-ethylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-E);
2-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-D);
2-(4-Chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-C);
2-(4-Iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-I);
2-(4-(Ethylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-T-2);
2-(4-(Isopropylthio)-2,5- dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-T-4);
2-(2,5-Dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-H);
2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-nitro-phenyl)ethanamine (2C-N);
2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-(n)-propylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-P).
   SYNTHETIC STIMULANT: Any compound that mimics the effects of any federally
controlled schedule I substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDEA, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including
salts, isomers, and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a
stimulant effect on the central nervous system, such as:
3-Fluoromethcathinone
4-Fluoromethcathinone (other name: flephedrone)
3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (other name: methylone, MDMC)
3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (other name: MDPV)
4-Methylmethcathinon (other names: mephedrone, 4- MMC)
4-Methoxymethcathinone (other names: methedrone, bk-PMMA, PMMC)
4-Ethylmethcathinone (other name: 4-EMC)
Ethcathinone
Beta-keto-N-methylbenzodioxyolylpropylamine (other names: butylone, bk-MBDB)
Napthylpyrovalerone (other names: naphyrone, NRG- 1)
N,N-dimethylcathinone (other name: metamfepramone)
Alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: alpha- PPP)
4-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MOPPP)
3,4-methylenedioxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MDPPP)
Alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone (other name: alpha- PVP)
6,7-kihydro-5H-indeno(5,6-d)-1,3-dioxal-6-amine) (other name: MDAI)
Any compound that is structurally derived from 2- amino-1-phenyl-1-propanone by
modification or substitution in any of the following ways:
In the phenyl ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy, alkylenedioxy, haloalkyl,
or halide substituents, whether or not further substituted in the phenyl ring
by one or more other univalent substituents;
At the 3-position with an alkyl substituent;
At the nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialkyl, benzyl, or methoxybenzyl groups;
Or by inclusion of the nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
   B.   Sale Or Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer
for sale or deliver any product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant,
misbranded drug or psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   C.   Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess a
product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant, misbranded drug or
psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   D.   Use: It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant, misbranded drug or psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   E.   Penalties: Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be
guilty of a village ordinance violation for each violation thereof. Each
violation of this section, or every day a violation continues to exist, shall
constitute a new and separate violation. Each violation of this section is
punishable by a fine of not less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per
violation.
   F.   Effect Upon Other Licensure: As noted above, violation of this section
constitutes an ordinance violation punishable by fine. In addition, violation
of this section by any organization, person, business, place, or establishment
which has a license to sell intoxicating liquors pursuant to this code shall
constitute grounds for the village to take action relating to the revocation of
the liquor license separate and apart from the ordinance violation, and the
village may initiate proceedings to suspend or revoke the liquor and/or tobacco
license of the party charged with a violation of this section, and/or seek to
impose a penalty under this code. For purposes of such a proceeding relating to
the liquor and/or tobacco license, a violation of this section shall be
construed as a violation of the licensure requirements and sale restrictions
under this code, which may be prosecuted according to the applicable
requirements of those sections/chapters. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-17: EMERGENCIES:
   A.   State Of Emergency: When both of the following conditions exist, there
exists in the village of Pingree Grove a "state of emergency":
      1.   A group of persons in excess of twenty five (25), either standing
together as a group or fragmented into such a number that the total of the
fragments acting in concert equal in excess of twenty five (25); and
      2.   Wild and violent disorders, or violent breaches of the peace by the
group of persons named in subsection A1 of this section, or a climate where
there exists a clear, present and imminent danger of violence by the group of
persons named in subsection A1 of this section, coupled with the ability to
carry out such violence.
   B.   Statement Of Declaration: Whenever the president shall determine that a
"state of emergency" exists, the president shall sign, under oath, a statement
finding that such standards have been met, setting forth facts to substantiate
such findings, describing the nature of the emergency, and declaring that a
"state of emergency" exists. Such statement shall be filed with the clerk of
the village of Pingree Grove as soon as practicable.
   C.   Time Frame: After declaring a "state of emergency" the president may
declare the "state of emergency" at an end by giving written notice to that
effect to the village clerk, but in no event shall a "state of emergency"
extend beyond the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the village board
of the village of Pingree Grove after the "state of emergency" is declared.
   D.   Curfew: Within thirty (30) minutes after the signing of the declaration
of "state of emergency", there shall exist a curfew in the corporate limits of
the village of Pingree Grove, which shall be in effect until the "state of
emergency" is ended as provided in subsection C of this section.
   E.   Prohibited Activities: When a curfew exists under this section, it
shall be unlawful for any person to be upon the streets, sidewalks, public ways
or public places of the village of Pingree Grove and it shall be unlawful for
any person to sell or offer for sale any intoxicating beverages, gasoline or
any other combustible or flammable liquid or gas. The president may permit the
sale of gasoline for motor vehicle purposes only, but such permission shall be
in writing and filed with the clerk. For the purpose of this section no one
shall be guilty of violating the curfew unless they:
      1.   Intended to be upon the streets, sidewalks, public ways, or public
places. If one is found upon the streets, sidewalks, public ways or public
places, the presumption shall be that he intended to be there unless rebutted;
or
      2.   Intended to sell intoxicating beverages or gasoline or any other
combustible or flammable liquid and did offer to sell or did sell those items.
If one is found offering to sell or selling the items heretofore mentioned, the
presumption shall be that he intended to do so unless rebutted.
   F.   Notice: The president shall cause notice to be given of the calling of
a "state of emergency" and the time at which he or she signed the declaration
by all available means reasonably known to him at the time of calling such a
"state of emergency".
   G.   Exceptions: The following persons shall be excepted from the
application of that part of subsection E of this section making it unlawful to
be on the streets, sidewalks, public ways or public places: the president, the
village board, the village department heads and their authorized employees, the
village attorney, members of the news media possessing proper credentials for
the purpose of identification only, medical personnel acting in their
professional capacity, peace officers and firefighters, and any other persons
who the president may designate. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-18: BARBED WIRE FENCES:
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain anywhere in the village a fence or
wall equipped with or having barbed wire, spikes, broken glass or any similar
device not specifically authorized by the provisions of this code. (Ord. 2016-
O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-19: NOISE CONTROL REGULATION:
   A.   Definitions: All terminology used in this section shall be in
conformance with applicable publications of the American National Standard
Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
   B.   Weighted Sound Level: This means the sound pressure level decibels as
measured on a sound level meter using the "A" weighing network. The level so
read is designated dB(A) or dBA.
   C.   Day Hours: No person shall cause or allow the emission of sound during
daytime hours (7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M.) from any noise source to any receiving
residential land which exceeds sixty (60) dBA when measured at any point within
such receiving residential land, provided, however, that point of measurement
shall be on the property line of the complainant.
   D.   Night Hours: No person shall cause or allow the emission of sound
during nighttime hours (10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M.) from any noise source to any
receiving residential land which exceeds fifty five (55) dBA when measured at
any point within such receiving residential land provided, however, that point
of measurement shall be on the property line of the complainant.
   E.   Variance Permits: Variance permits may be issued by the chief of police
to exceed the noise standards set forth in this section as follows:
      1.   A temporary variance permit may be issued upon request provided that
the work producing such noise is necessary to promote the public health and/or
welfare and reasonable steps are taken to keep such noise at the lowest
possible practical level.
      2.   A permanent variance permit may be issued upon request, following an
investigation into the source of the noise, including what, if any, measures
can be taken to reduce or eliminate the noise; the cost of any such measure;
and an overall evaluation of the request including the severity of the problem
weighted against the cost of remedial measures; the benefit of the public, and
the impact on the noise source.
Any permanent variance may be revoked by the chief of police if there is a
significant change in the facts from the time the original variance was granted
and if, following the same procedures involved in issuing the original permit,
the chief of police should conclude it is in the best interest of the public to
revoke the permit.
   F.   Exemptions:
      1.   Emergency Operations: Emergency short term operations which are
necessary to protect the health and welfare of the citizens, such as, emergency
utility and street repair, fallen tree removal or emergency fuel oil delivery
shall be exempt, provided that reasonable steps shall be taken by those in
charge of such operations to minimize noise emanating from the same.
      2.   Noises Required By Law: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any noise required specifically by law for the protection or safety of
people or property.
      3.   Powered Equipment: Powered equipment such as lawn mowers, small lawn
and garden tools, riding tractors and snow removal equipment which is necessary
for the maintenance of property, is kept in good repair and maintenance, and
which equipment, when new, would not comply with the standards set forth in
this section, shall be exempted.
      4.   Community Events: The term "community events" shall include such
things as parades, festivals, drum corps shows, sports events, 4th Of July
celebrations, sanctioned or sponsored in whole or in part by local governments,
schools or charitable or service organizations. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-20: ELECTRONIC SOUND SYSTEMS:
   A.   The use within a dwelling unit of a stationary or portable electronic
sound reinforcement and/or sound reproduction system, utilizing loudspeakers,
such that loud or raucous sounds radiate from outside the dwelling unit and are
clearly audible from a distance of fifty feet (50') from such dwelling unit
shall be prohibited during the following hours:
Sunday 10:00 P.M. - Monday 7:00 A.M.
Monday 10:00 P.M. - Tuesday 7:00 A.M.
Tuesday 10:00 P.M. - Wednesday 7:00 A.M.
Wednesday 10:00 P.M. - Thursday 7:00 A.M.
Thursday 10:00 P.M. - Friday 7:00 A.M.
Friday 12:00 midnight - Saturday 7:00 A.M.
Saturday 12:00 midnight - Sunday 7:00 A.M.
   B.   No provision of this section shall be construed so as to affect any
other provision of this code. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-21: THEFT OF VILLAGE PROPERTY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
   OBTAIN:
      1.   In relation to property owned by the village of Pingree Grove, to
bring about a transfer of interest or possession, whether to the offender or to
another.
   OBTAIN CONTROL: The phrase "obtains or exerts control" over property owned
by the village of Pingree Grove includes, but is not limited to, the taking,
carrying away, or the sale, conveyance, or transfer of title to, or interest
in, or possession of property owned by the village of Pingree Grove.
   PERMANENT DEPRIVATION: To "permanently deprive" means to:
      1.   Defeat all recovery of the property by the village of Pingree Grove;
or
      2.   Deprive the village of Pingree Grove criminally of the beneficial
use of the property; or
      3.   Retain the property with intent to restore it to the village of
Pingree Grove only if the village purchases or leases it back, or pays a reward
or other compensation for its return; or
      4.   Sell, give, pledge or otherwise transfer any interest in the
property or subject it to the claim of a person other than the village of
Pingree Grove.
   PROPERTY: Property owned by the village of Pingree Grove.
   STOLEN VILLAGE PROPERTY: Property owned by the village of Pingree Grove over
which control has been obtained by theft.
   B.   Theft Of Village Property: A person commits theft of village owned
property when the person knowingly:
      1.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property owned by the
village of Pingree Grove; or
      2.   Obtains by deception control over property of the village of Pingree
Grove; or
      3.   Obtains by threat control over property of the village of Pingree
Grove.
      4.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him to
believe that the property was stolen, and
         a.   Intends to criminally deprive the village of Pingree Grove
permanently of the use or benefit of the property; or
         b.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner
as to deprive the village of Pingree Grove permanently of such use or benefit;
or
         c.   Uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the village of Pingree Grove
permanently of such use or benefit.
   C.   Unauthorized Control Over Property: It shall be prima facie evidence
that a person "knowingly obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property
owned by the village of Pingree Grove" when a lessee of the personal property
of the village of Pingree Grove fails to return to the village of Pingree Grove
within thirty (30) days after written demand from the village of Pingree Grove
for its return. A notice in writing, given after the expiration of the leasing
agreement, addressed and mailed, by certified mail, to the lessee at the
address given by him and shown on the leasing agreement shall constitute proper
demand.
   D.   Theft Of Lost Or Mislaid Village Property: A person who obtains a
control over lost or mislaid property owned by the village of Pingree Grove
commits theft when the person:
      1.   Knows or learns that the village of Pingree Grove is the owner of
the property or is aware of a reasonable method of learning that the village of
Pingree Grove is the owner of the property, and
      2.   Fails to take reasonable measures to restore the property to the
village of Pingree Grove, and
      3.   Intends to permanently deprive the village of Pingree Grove of the
use or benefit of the property. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-22: FALSE FIRE ALARMS AND EMERGENCIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to report a false fire alarm or
emergency within the village of Pingree Grove.
   B.   A person commits reporting a false alarm when the person knowingly
transmits in any manner to 911 or a public safety agency or employee a false
alarm of fire or emergency, knowing at the time of such transmission that there
are no reasonable grounds for believing that such fire exists. (Ord. 2016-O-06,
4-4-2016)
6-4-23: CURFEW:
   A.   Age Restriction; Curfew Hours: It is unlawful for a person less than
seventeen (17) years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street or highway at the following times:
      1.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Saturday;
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Sunday; and
      3.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   B.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that a violation has
occurred and that, based upon any response and other circumstances, none of the
following exceptions apply:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by the minor's parent, legal guardian,
custodian, sibling at least eighteen (18) years of age or a responsible
companion at least eighteen (18) years of age approved by the minor's parent or
legal guardian;
      2.   The minor is engaged in employment that the laws of this state
authorize a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to perform;
      3.   The minor is engaged in an emergency involving the protection of a
person or property from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or
substantial damage;
      4.   The minor is participating in, going to, or returning from an
activity involving the exercise of the minor's right of religious freedom,
freedom of speech or the right to assemble and petition protected under the
first amendment of the United States constitution or article 1, sections 3, 4
and 5 of the constitution of the state of Illinois, or both;
      5.   The minor is participating in, going to, or returning from an
activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that provides
recreation, education, or training under the supervision of at least one adult;
or
      6.   The minor is participating in, going to, or returning from a school
recreational activity, which is organized and/or sponsored by the school in
which the minor is enrolled.
   C.   Permitting Minor To Violate Curfew: It is unlawful for a parent, legal
guardian or other person to knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or
control to violate subsection A of this section. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-24: ASSAULT:
A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, the person engages
in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a
battery. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-25: BATTERY:
A person commits battery if the person intentionally or knowingly without legal
justification and by any means: a) causes bodily harm to an individual; or b)
makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
(Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-26: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   Illegal Act: A person commits an illegal act when the person:
      1.   Knowingly damages any property of another without the owner's
consent; or
      2.   Recklessly by means of fire or explosive damages property of
another; or
      3.   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another without the owner's
consent; or
      4.   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without the owner's
consent; or
      5.   Knowingly damages the property of another without the owner's
consent by defacing, deforming or otherwise damaging such property by the use
of paint or any other similar substance; or
      6.   Knowingly tampers with, alters, removes or damages any gas or water
meter or other utility meter, or the register or reporting device(s) associated
therewith; or
      7.   Removes, changes, moves or alters any stone, stake or post set to
mark the corner of any lot or parcel of land or the grade thereof; or
      8.   Carries away, moves, breaks, defaces, destroys or injures any
monument, tombstone, tree, shrub, flower, railing, fence or other property
belonging to any cemetery or burying ground or the owner or inhabitant thereof.
   B.   Restitution: A person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
responsible for restitution for any damage caused. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-27: CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Prior Notice: A person commits criminal trespass to real property when
the person enters upon the land or a building, other than a residence, or any
part thereof of another, after receiving, prior to such entry, notice from the
owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden, or remains upon the land or in
a building, other than a residence, of another after receiving notice from the
owner or occupant to depart.
   B.   Notice Defined: A person has received notice from the owner or occupant
within the meaning of subsection A of this section if the person has been
notified personally, either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written
notice forbidding such entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the
main entrance to such land or the forbidden part thereof.
   C.   Restitution: A person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
responsible for restitution for any damage caused. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-28: GRAFFITI DEFACEMENT:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER: Any aerosol container that is adapted or made for
the purpose of applying spray paint or other substances capable of defacing
property.
   BROAD TIPPED MARKER: Any felt tip indelible marker or similar implement with
a flat or angled writing surface that, at its broadest, is greater than one-
fourth (1/4) of an inch, containing ink or other pigmented liquid that is not
water soluble.
   ETCHING EQUIPMENT: Any tool, device, or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on any natural or manmade surface.
   GRAFFITI: Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property by any graffiti implement, to the extent that the graffiti was not
authorized in advance by the owner or occupant of the property, or, despite
advance authorization, is otherwise deemed a public nuisance by the village
board.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: An aerosol paint container, a broad tipped marker, gum
label, paint stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush or any other
device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any natural or manmade
surface.
   PAINT STICK OR GRAFFITI STICK: Any device containing a solid form of paint,
chalk, wax, epoxy or other similar substance capable of being applied to a
surface by pressure and leaving a mark of at least one-eighth (1/8) of an inch
in width.
   PERSON: An individual, partnership, cooperative, association, private
corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee, assignee, or any other
legal entity.
   B.   Defacement: It shall be unlawful for any person to apply graffiti to
any natural or manmade surface on any village owned property or, without the
permission of the owner or occupant, on any non-village owned property.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Fines: Any person violating this section shall be punished by a fine
for each offense.
         a.   In the case of a minor, the parents or legal guardian shall be
jointly and severally liable with the minor for payment of all fines.
         b.   Failure of the parents or legal guardian to make payment will
result in the filing of a lien on the parents' or legal guardian's property
that includes the fine and administrative costs.
      2.   Restitution: In addition to any punishment specified in this
section, the court shall order any violator to make restitution to the victim
for damages or loss caused directly or indirectly by the violator's offense in
the amount or manner determined by the court. In the case of minor, the parents
or legal guardian shall be ordered jointly and severally liable with the minor
to make the restitution.
      3.   Community Service: In lieu of, or as part of, the penalties
specified in this section, a minor or adult may be required to perform
community service as described by the court based on the following minimum
requirements:
         a.   The minor or adult shall perform at least fifty (50) hours of
community service.
         b.   Reasonable effort shall be made to assign the minor or adult to a
type of community service that is reasonably expected to have the most
rehabilitative effect on the minor or adult, including community service that
involves graffiti removal.
   D.   Graffiti As Nuisance: The existence of graffiti on public or private
property in violation of this section is expressly declared to be a public
nuisance and, therefore, is subject to the removal and abatement provisions
specified in this section. It is the duty of both the owner of the property to
which the graffiti has been applied and any person who may be in possession or
who has the right to possess such property to at all times keep the property
clear of graffiti.
   E.   Removal Of Graffiti By Perpetrator: Any person applying graffiti on
public or private property shall have the duty to remove the graffiti within
twenty four (24) hours after notice by the village or private owner of the
property involved. Such removal shall be done in a manner prescribed by the
chief of police. Any person applying graffiti shall be responsible for the
removal or for the payment of the removal. Failure of any person to remove
graffiti or pay for the removal shall constitute an additional violation of
this section. Where graffiti is applied by an unemancipated minor, the parents
or legal guardian shall also be responsible for such removal or for the payment
for the removal.
   F.   Removal Of Graffiti By Property Owner Or Village: If graffiti is not
removed by the perpetrator, graffiti shall be removed pursuant to the following
provisions:
      1.   Property Owner Responsibility: It is unlawful for any person who is
the owner or who has primary responsibility for control of property or for
repair or maintenance of property in the village, to permit property that is
defaced with graffiti to remain defaced for a period of more than seven (7)
days after service by first class mail of notice of the defacement. The notice
shall contain the following information:
         a.   The street address and legal description of the property
sufficient for identification of the property;
         b.   A statement that the property is a potential graffiti nuisance
property with a concise description of the conditions leading to the finding;
         c.   A statement that the graffiti must be removed within seven (7)
days after receipt of the notice and that if the graffiti is not abated within
that time the village will declare the property to be a public nuisance,
subject to the abatement procedures; and
         d.   An information sheet identifying any graffiti removal assistance
programs available through the village and private graffiti removal
contractors.
      2.   Exceptions To Property Owner Responsibility: The removal
requirements above shall not apply if the property owner or responsible party
can demonstrate that:
         a.   The property owner or responsible party lacks the financial
ability to remove the defacing graffiti; or
         b.   The property owner or responsible party has an active program for
the removal of graffiti and has scheduled the removal of the graffiti as part
of that program, in which case it shall be unlawful to permit such property to
remain defaced with graffiti for a period of more than fifteen (15) days after
service by first class mail of notice of the defacement.
      3.   Right Of Village To Remove:
         a.   Use Of Public Funds: Whenever the village becomes aware or is
notified and determines that graffiti is located on publicly or privately owned
property viewable from a public or quasi-public place, the village shall be
authorized to use public funds for the removal of the graffiti, or for the
painting or repairing of the graffiti, but shall not authorize or undertake to
provide for the painting or repair of any more extensive an area than that
where the graffiti is located, unless the chief of police, or the designee of
the chief of police, determines in writing that a more extensive area is
required to be repainted or repaired in order to avoid an aesthetic
disfigurement to the neighborhood or community, or unless the property owner or
responsible party agrees to pay for the costs of repainting or repairing the
more extensive area.
         b.   Right Of Entry On Private Property: Prior to entering upon
private property or property owned by a public entity other than the village
for the purpose of graffiti removal the village shall attempt to secure the
consent of the property owner or responsible party and a release of the village
from liability for property damage or personal injury. If the property owner or
responsible party fails to remove the offending graffiti within the time
specified by this section, or if the village has requested consent to remove or
paint over the offending graffiti and the property owner or responsible party
has refused consent for entry on terms acceptable to the village and consistent
with the terms of this section, the village shall commence abatement and cost
recovery proceedings for the graffiti removal according to the provisions
specified below.
      4.   Abatement And Cost Recovery Proceedings:
         a.   Notice Of Due Process Hearing: The chief of police, or the
designee of the chief of police, serving as the hearing officer, shall serve
the property owner of record and the party responsible for the maintenance of
the property, if a person different than the owner, with written notice of the
village's intent to hold a due process hearing at which the property owner or
responsible party shall be entitled to present evidence and argue that the
property does not constitute a public nuisance. If the owner of record cannot
be found after a diligent search, the notice may be served by posting a copy
thereof in a conspicuous place upon the property for a period of ten (10) days.
         b.   Determination Of Hearing Officer: The determination of the
hearing officer after the due process hearing shall be final and not
appealable. If, after the due process hearing, regardless of the attendance of
the owner or the responsible party of their respective agents, the hearing
officer determines that the property contains graffiti viewable from a public
or quasi-public place, the hearing officer shall give written notice in an
eradication order that, unless the graffiti is removed within seven (7) days,
the village shall enter upon the property, cause the removal, painting over (in
such color as shall meet with the approval of the hearing officer), or such
other eradication thereof as the hearing officer determines appropriate, and
shall provide the owner and the responsible party thereafter with an accounting
of the costs of the eradication effort on a full cost recovery basis.
         c.   Eradication Effort: Not sooner than the time specified in the
order of the hearing officer, the public works director, or the designee of the
public works director, shall implement the eradication order and shall provide
an accounting to the owner and the responsible party of the costs thereof.
         d.   Lien: As to such property where the responsible party is the
property owner, if all or any portion of the assessed eradication charges
remain unpaid after thirty (30) days, the portion thereof that remains unpaid
shall constitute a lien on the property that was the subject of the eradication
effort and shall be recorded with the county clerk's office. (Ord. 2016-O-06,
4-4-2016)
6-4-29: RETAIL THEFT:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the words and phrases
defined below have the meanings ascribed to them unless a contrary meaning is
clear from the context.
   CONCEAL: To "conceal" merchandise means that, although there may be some
notice of its presence, that merchandise is not visible through ordinary
observation.
   FULL RETAIL VALUE: The merchant's stated or advertised price of the
merchandise.
   MERCHANDISE: Any item of tangible personal property.
   MERCHANT: An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or any
agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, director, franchisee or
independent contractor of such owner or operator.
   MINOR: A person who is less than nineteen (19) years of age, is
unemancipated and resides with his or her parents or legal guardian.
   PEACE OFFICER: Has the meaning ascribed to that term in section 2-13 of the
Illinois criminal code 1 .
   PERSON: Any natural person or individual.
   PREMISES OF A RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Includes, but is not limited
to, the retail mercantile establishment; any common use area in shopping
centers and all parking areas set aside by a merchant or on behalf of a
merchant for the parking of vehicles for the convenience of the patrons of such
retail mercantile establishment.
   RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where merchandise is displayed,
held, stored or offered for sale to the public.
   SHOPPING CART: Those pushcarts of the type or types which are commonly
provided by grocery stores, drugstores or other retail mercantile
establishments for the use of the public in transporting commodities in stores
and markets and incidentally, from the stores to a place outside the store.
   THEFT DETECTION DEVICE REMOVER: Any tool or device specifically designed and
intended to be used to remove any theft detection device from any merchandise.
   THEFT DETECTION SHIELDING DEVICE: Any laminated or coated bag or device
designed and intended to shield merchandise from detection by an electronic or
magnetic theft alarm sensor.
   UNDER RING: To cause the cash register or other sales recording device to
reflect less than the full retail value of the merchandise.
   B.   Retail Theft Committed: A person commits the offense of retail theft
when he or she knowingly:
      1.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred, any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise; or
      2.   Alters, transfers, or removes any label, price tag, marking indicia
of value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale, in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise personally or in
consort with another at less than the full retail value with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      3.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale, in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in, or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      4.   Under rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full
retail value of the merchandise; or
      5.   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart; or
      6.   Represents to a merchant that he or another is the lawful owner of
property, knowing that such representation is false and conveys or attempts to
convey that property to a merchant who is the owner of the property in exchange
for money, merchandise credit or other property of the merchant; or
      7.   Uses or possesses any theft detection shielding device or theft
detection device remover with the intention of using such device to deprive the
merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of any merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in retail mercantile establishment
without paying the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      8.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner
and thereby intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property when a lessee of the personal property of another fails to return
it to the owner, or if the lessee fails to pay the full retail value of such
property to the lessor in satisfaction of any contractual provision requiring
such, within thirty (30) days after written demand from the owner of its
return. A notice in writing, given after the expiration of the leasing
agreement, by certified mail, to the lessee at the address given by the lessee
and shown on the leasing agreement shall constitute proper demand.
   C.   Presumptions: If any person:
      1.   Conceals upon his or her person or among his or her belonging,
unpurchased merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail
mercantile establishment; and
      2.   Removes that merchandise beyond the last known station for receiving
payment for that merchandise in that retail mercantile establishment, such
person shall be presumed to have possessed, carried away or transferred such
merchandise with the intention of retaining it or with the intention of
depriving the merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of such
merchandise without paying the full retail value of such merchandise.
   D.   Detention: Any merchant who has reasonable grounds to believe that a
person has committed retail theft may detain such person, on or off the
premises of a retail mercantile establishment, in a reasonable manner and for a
reasonable length of time for all or any of the following purposes:
      1.   To request identification;
      2.   To verify such identification;
      3.   To make reasonable inquiry as to whether such person has in his or
her possession unpurchased merchandise and to make reasonable investigation of
the ownership of such merchandise;
      4.   To inform a peace officer of the detention of the person and
surrender the person to the custody of a peace officer;
      5.   In the case of a minor, to inform a peace officer, the parents,
guardian or other private person interested in the welfare of that minor of
this detention and to surrender custody of the minor to such person;
A merchant may make a detention as permitted herein off the premises of a
retail mercantile establishment only if such detention is pursuant to an
immediate pursuit of such person.
A merchant shall be deemed to have reasonable grounds to make a retention for
the purposes of this section if the merchant detains a person because such
person has in his or her possession either a theft detection shielding device
or a theft detection device remover.
   E.   Affirmative Defense: A detention as permitted in this section does not
constitute an arrest or an unlawful restraint, as defined in section 10-3 of
the Illinois criminal code 1 , nor shall it render the merchant liable to the
person so detained.
   F.   Restitution: A person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
responsible for restitution for any damage caused. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/2-13.
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/10-3.
6-4-30: PUBLIC ELIMINATION:
It shall be unlawful to urinate, vomit or defecate upon any public street,
sidewalk or other public place, or on any outdoor private property. (Ord. 2016-
O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-31: THEFT:
   A.   Commission Of Theft: A person commits theft when he or she knowingly:
      1.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
or
      2.   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
      3.   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
      4.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him to
believe that the property was stolen; and
         a.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
         b.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such a
manner as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
         c.   Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
uses or benefit.
   B.   Restitution: A person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
responsible for restitution for any damage caused. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-32: FIREWORKS:
   A.   A person shall not possess, sell, offer for sale, or discharge on
private property any fireworks described below except where approved for the
supervised display of fireworks.
"Fireworks" shall mean and include any explosive composition or any substance
or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing
a visible or an audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by
combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation, and shall include: blank
cartridges, toy cannons in which explosives are used, the type of balloons
which require fire underneath to propel the balloon, firecrackers, torpedoes,
skyrockets, roman candles, bombs or other fireworks of like construction and
any fireworks containing any explosive compounds; or any tablets or other
devices containing any explosive substance, or containing combustible
substances producing visual effects.
The term "fireworks" shall not include snake or glow worm pellets; smoke
devices; sparklers; trick noisemakers known as "party poppers", "booby traps",
"snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette loads" and "auto burglar alarms";
automobile flares; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which
paper or plastic caps containing twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain or less of
explosive compound are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand
cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy
pistol paper or plastic caps which contain less than twenty five hundredths
(0.25) grain of explosive mixture; the sale and use of which shall be permitted
at all times.
   B.   A person shall not manufacture, store, offer or expose for sale, sell
at retail or discharge on public property any fireworks described below except
where approved for the supervised display of fireworks.
"Fireworks" shall mean and include any combustible or explosive composition,
and any substance and combination of substances and articles prepared for the
purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion,
deflagration or detonation.
Fireworks shall include: blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes
and toy guns in which explosives are utilized, balloons requiring fire
underneath to propel the balloon, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, roman
candles, sparklers and other devices of similar construction, any device
containing any explosive or flammable compound, and any tablets and other
devices containing any explosive substance.
The term "fireworks" shall not include automobile flares, paper caps containing
not more than an average of 0.25 grain (16mg) of explosive content per cap, and
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns and other devices utilizing such caps. The
sale and utilization of the types of explosives devices listed herein which are
not considered fireworks shall be permitted at all times.
Any person violating this section shall be punished by a fine of not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense.
   C.   For purposes of this section, "except where approved" shall be
interpreted to mean where a fireworks display is expressly authorized by the
issuance of all required federal, state or local permits, and where the display
has been authorized in writing by the chief of police. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-
2016)
6-4-33: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Definitions: Definitions as used in this section:
   KNOWINGLY: Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief which warrants further inquiry or inspection. Knowingly
includes knowledge that a parent should reasonably be expected to have
concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile in that parent's legal custody. This
requirement is intended to hold a neglectful or careless parent up to a
reasonable community standard of parental responsibility through an objective
test. It shall therefore be no defense that a parent was completely indifferent
to the activities or conduct or whereabouts of such juvenile.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor by
a circuit court of this state, but does not include a person appointed guardian
or given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act.
   MINOR: A person under the age of seventeen (17).
   PARENT: A natural or adoptive parent.
   UNEMANCIPATED MINOR: A minor still under the care and custody of at least
one of her parents or a legal guardian.
   B.   Prohibited Conduct: It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal
guardian of any minor in her custody to knowingly allow or to knowingly permit
such minor to fail to appear in court, when said minor is required by law to
appear in court, after the minor has been charged with a violation of any
ordinance of the village of Pingree Grove or with failing to comply with any
order of the court. It shall be an affirmative defense for the parent or legal
guardian to prove that she exercised reasonable efforts to ensure the minor
would appear in court when required, but that such action on the part of the
parent or guardian, although exercised with due care, was unsuccessful. Any
parent or legal guardian shall only be charged with a violation of this
provision if she has received written notice, either by certified or registered
mail or by personal service of summons or notice to appear, setting forth the
charges against said minor in the original cause. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-34: TOBACCO USE, CONSUMPTION, POSSESSION BY MINORS:
"Smoking" means: a) inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, or other lighted tobacco product in any manner or in any form;
b) inhaling or exhaling from, turning on, powering, ingesting or utilizing in
any form any device intended for the atomization, charring, burning,
piezoelectronic ignition of or ingestion of tobacco products or nicotine in any
gaseous, smoke, aerosol, vaporous or other similar form, including, but not
limited to, the use of any e-cigarette, personal vaporizer used with nicotine
or tobacco derivatives, electronic nicotine delivery system, e-puffer,
cartomizer or other similar device; or c) use of any other device intended for
the gaseous, smoke, aerosol, vaporous or other similar airborne ingestion of
tobacco, tobacco derivatives, nicotine, or nicotine derivatives.
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years, to
use, possess or consume any cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco or tobacco in
any of its forms within the corporate limits of the village of Pingree Grove,
or to possess any pipe, e-cigarette, or other device which may be utilized for
"smoking" as defined above. For purposes of this section, "smokeless" tobacco
shall mean any tobacco product that is suitable for dipping or chewing. (Ord.
2016-O-06, 4-4-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-O-20, 6-17-2019)
6-4-35: NUISANCE GATHERINGS:
   A.   Definition: A "nuisance party" is a social gathering or party which is
conducted within the village and, by reason of the conduct of persons in
attendance, results in the occurrence of any one or more of the enumerated
offenses.
   B.   Enumerated Offenses; References To This Code:
      1.   Unlawful carrying or possessing of an open container of alcohol or
fermented malt beverage in public;
      2.   Public urination, vomiting or defecation;
      3.   Unlawful sale, furnishing, possession or consumption of alcohol or
fermented malt beverage;
      4.   Unlawful deposit of trash or litter;
      5.   Parking on an unapproved surface;
      6.   Destruction of property;
      7.   Generation of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, standing or parking
which obstructs the flow of traffic or interferes with the ability to render
emergency service;
      8.   Excessive, unnecessary or unreasonable noise which disturbs the
comfort, quiet or repose of the neighborhood;
      9.   Public disturbances, brawls, fights or threatening verbal quarrels;
or
      10.   Indecent or obscene conduct, and indecent exposure.
   C.   Declaration Of Nuisance: A nuisance party shall be deemed to constitute
a public nuisance. No person, who is an owner, occupant, tenant, or who
otherwise has lawful possession or possessory control, individually or jointly
with others, of any premises shall knowingly, negligently or recklessly allow a
social gathering or party on said premises to become a "nuisance party" as
defined in this section.
   D.   Order To Cease And Disperse: A nuisance party shall cease upon the
order of a police officer; and all persons not residing at the site of such
nuisance party shall disperse immediately. No person shall knowingly or
wilfully fail or refuse to obey such an order. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-36: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Acceptance of a liquor license constitutes the applicant's consent to
an inspection of any and all portions of the licensed premises by the village:
1) at any time during the normal business hours of the licensed premises, with
or without advance notice; or 2) at such other time as the village shall
designate to the applicant/licensee in writing, with not less than forty eight
(48) hours' advance notice. Inspections pursuant to this consent may be
conducted by any village personnel, including police department, building or
public works, the liquor commissioner or other staff authorized by the liquor
commissioner or chief of police, for purposes of determining compliance with
the provisions of this code, or for purposes of determining compliance with any
other applicable code or regulation. The consent for inspection shall extend to
any portion of the premises. An applicant or licensee's refusal to grant access
to the premises for an inspection shall constitute a violation of the village
liquor code for liquor license holders, which may subject a liquor licensee to
suspension or revocation of their liquor license, imposition of fines and
penalties under this code, or both.
   B.   No alcoholic liquors shall be sold through a drive-through, nor offered
for delivery (except for delivery via U.S. postal service or a commercial
carrier not owned or operated by the licensee and not more expeditious than
overnight).
   C.   It shall be unlawful to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages
outside the permitted hours of operation applicable to a given liquor license,
or in violation of any of the terms of this code, or the conditions applicable
to a liquor license by virtue of its issuance or by virtue of any accompanying
license agreement.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption on
premises, or to permit the consumption of sold alcoholic liquors on premises,
without a liquor license permitting such consumption.
   E.   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquors by selling or offering
them for sale in any street, sidewalk or public place, or traveling from place
to place within the village, or selling or offering them for sale and delivery
from any receptacle, vehicle or pushcart going from place to place in the
village.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on any street, alley, park
or other public way (including sidewalks and rights of way) an open container
of any beverage containing any alcohol or alcoholic liquors, unless such public
area is a permitted area under the terms of a then valid village issued liquor
license.
   G.   It shall be unlawful to engage in any sale of alcoholic liquors that is
not intended for consumption on premises in anything other than the "original
package" (meaning bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead or other
receptacle, as corked, capped, sealed and labeled by the manufacturer of
alcoholic liquors). No licensee, licensee's agents or employees shall permit
and no person shall remove from the permitted area any alcoholic liquor except
in its "original package" as defined herein, unless permitted for consumption
on the premises.
   H.   It shall be unlawful to sell any alcoholic liquors for consumption on
the premises and to deliver said alcoholic liquors to the customer in anything
other than an open container (i.e., it is unlawful to deliver a sealed,
unopened bottle to the customer, for consumption on the premises). All sales of
alcoholic liquors for consumption on premises shall be done only in containers
that have been opened prior to final delivery to the consumer.
   I.   It shall be unlawful for any person, licensee, owner, manager, alcohol
server or other agent or employee of any licensee to permit any person to
engage in any violation of this code, or to allow any violation of this code
within a licensed premises.
   J.   Any licensed establishment that is permitted to allow the consumption
of wine on premises shall be authorized to seal a partially consumed bottle of
wine in a onetime use, tamper evident, clear plastic bag, with a time/date
stamped receipt, to permit a customer to take the partially consumed bottle of
wine with them without violating this section, provided that said conduct is
permitted under applicable state law.
   K.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) to
enter or remain in the age restricted portion of any licensed liquor
establishment, unless: 1) an employee over the age of eighteen (18), in the
course of employment and as lawfully permitted herein; or 2) accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian.
   L.   Except for the permitted stocking or selling of alcohol by licensee's
employees eighteen (18) years of age or older, it shall be unlawful for any
person under the age of twenty one (21) to possess any alcohol or alcoholic
liquors upon a licensed premises.
   M.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) to
purchase or consume any alcoholic liquors.
   N.   It shall be unlawful to sell, deliver, offer to sell, purchase on
behalf of, or transfer alcoholic liquors to any person under the age of twenty
one (21) at any licensed establishment within the village.
   O.   It shall be unlawful for any person to present to any licensee or their
agents or employees, or to any village employee, any evidence of age or
identity which is false, fraudulent, not his/her own, misleading or otherwise
inaccurate for the purpose of gaining access to a licensed premises or a
permitted area thereof, or for the purpose of purchasing, possessing or
consuming alcoholic liquors. Any person entering any permitted area for bar
sales or package sales shall have in their possession a state issued photo
identification card positively identifying such person and their correct date
of birth. (Any violation of this specific provision shall be dismissed upon
satisfactory proof that the alleged offender is 21 years of age or greater.)
   P.   It shall further be unlawful for any licensee or agent or employee
thereof to allow or permit a person less than twenty one (21) years of age to
violate the provisions of subsections A through E of this section. The
privilege of obtaining a liquor license includes the mandatory obligation of
supervising one's premises to confirm compliance with this section. It shall be
unlawful for any licensee or its agents to sell, give, deliver or permit
possession of alcoholic liquor before demanding presentation of a state issued
form of photo identification that positively and accurately identifies the
customer as being of lawful age for said purchase, possession or consumption,
where the licensee or its agents have or should have reason to believe that the
prospective recipient is not of legal age to so possess, purchase or consume an
alcoholic liquor.
   Q.   Without regard to liquor licensure, it shall be unlawful for any person
to sell, transfer, deliver, gift, or permit the consumption of alcoholic
liquors to a person under the age of twenty one (21) years, unless: 1) the
person permitting consumption is the parent or legal guardian of the person
under the age of twenty one (21) years; or 2) the person under the age of
twenty one (21) years is participating in a bona fide religious ceremony or
service. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-37: WINDOWS, STAIRWAYS, EXITS:
   A.   Any scaffolds or ladders placed in such a position that they overhang
or can fall onto any public street, alley, or other public place in the village
shall be firmly and properly constructed and safeguarded; and it is unlawful to
place or leave any tool or article on any such place in such a manner that the
same can fall into any such street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place from
a greater height than four feet (4').
   B.   It is unlawful to place any movable article on any window ledge, or
other place abutting on a public street, alley, or other place at a height
above four feet (4') from the ground, in such a manner that the same can be or
is in danger of falling onto such sidewalk, street, alley, or other public
place.
   C.   It is unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor, or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school,
church, assembly hall, lodge, or other public hall, or any building used by two
(2) or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes with the
free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor, or exit. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016)
6-4-38: SOLICITORS:
It shall be unlawful to violate any provision of this code pertaining to
solicitors, canvassers, itinerant merchants or food and beverage vending
vehicles, or any state statute pertaining to the same, including, but not
limited to, title 4, chapter 5 of this code. (Ord. 2016-O-20, 9-6-2016)
6-4-39: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS OR DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Unlawful Drug Paraphernalia: It shall be unlawful to possess any item
of drug paraphernalia, the possession of which is prohibited under applicable
state law.
   B.   Cannabis: It shall be unlawful to possess any substance containing any
amount of cannabis or tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), except where such item is
possessed in strict accordance with applicable state laws.
   C.   State Law Adopted By Reference: The Village adopts by reference the
then current versions of state law applicable to the possession of drug
paraphernalia and cannabis, including but not limited to the Drug Paraphernalia
Control Act, 720 ILCS 600/1, et. seq., the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410
ILCS 705/1, et. seq., and the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act, 710
ILCS 130/1, et. seq. (Ord. 2016-O-20, 9-6-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-O-01, 1-20-2020)
6-4-40: PENALTIES:
Any person engaged in a violation of any of the foregoing sections shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and not
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), per day, per occurrence, with
each day that a violation persists constituting a separate occurrence. A person
convicted of a violation of any section hereof shall be responsible for
restitution for any damage caused. In the case of a person under the age of
eighteen (18) years of age, the court may order that such penalties be imposed
in the form of community service hours, which hours may be served in a fashion
acceptable to the chief of police. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 4-4-2016; amd. Ord. 2016-O-
20, 9-6-2016)
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Curfew
6-5-2: Sale Of Drug Paraphernalia To Minors
6-5-3: Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian
6-5-4: Truancy
6-5-5: Penalty
6-5-1: CURFEW:
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 555/1, regarding curfew for minors, is hereby
adopted by reference as the curfew regulations for the village. Three (3)
copies of said statute are on file in the office of the village clerk for
public use and inspection. (2011 Code)
6-5-2: SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA TO MINORS:
   A.   Definition: "Drug paraphernalia" articles or equipment commonly used in
the consumption or ingestion of controlled substances or cannabis include, but
are not limited to, the following enumerated articles: cocaine spoons, pot
pipes, water pipes, hypodermic needles, syringes, roach clips, and literature
devoted wholly or substantially to describing or illustrating explicitly the
consumption or ingestion of a controlled substance or cannabis which tends to
promote the use of a controlled substance or cannabis. (1990 Code §14.301)
   B.   Sale To Minors Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to sell or
offer to sell any paraphernalia, articles or equipment, as defined in
subsection A of this section, to any person under the age of eighteen (18),
except where such articles or equipment are prescribed for strictly medical
purposes and are used as such. (1990 Code §14.302)
6-5-3: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, the terms specified have the following meanings ascribed to them:
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
circuit court of the state, but does not include a person appointed guardian or
given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act 1 .
   MINOR: A person who is above the age of seven (7) years but who has not yet
attained the age of eighteen (18) years. (1990 Code §14.501)
   B.   Regulations: The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor
residing with such parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence
of evidence to the contrary, to have failed to exercise proper parental
responsibility, and said minor shall be deemed to have committed the acts
described below with the knowledge and permission of the parent or legal
guardian, in violation of this section, upon the occurrence of the following
events:
      1.   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall have violated any ordinance of the village; and
      2.   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned, from the
village president or from such other person the village president may designate
following said violation; and
      3.   If at any time within one year's receipt of the notice set forth in
subsection B2 of this section, said minor again violates any ordinance of the
village. (1990 Code §14.502)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
6-5-4: TRUANCY:
   A.   Truancy Prohibited: It is unlawful for any child who is subject to
compulsory school attendance under Illinois state law to be absent from school
without prior parental permission, unless such absence is both: 1) due to an
actual emergency or reasonably unforeseen emergency circumstance; and 2)
authorized by a parent or guardian who contacts and notifies the school of the
absence and the parent/guardian's consent within one business day of the
truancy.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: It is unlawful for any person having care or
custody of a child who is subject to compulsory school attendance as required
by Illinois state law to allow such child to be absent without valid cause from
such attendance for a school day or portion thereof. For purposes of this
section, "valid cause" shall mean illness, observance of a religious or other
holiday, death in the family, family emergency, or other circumstance that
reasonably prevents a parent from ensuring that a child attends school as
required. (Ord. 2012-O-15, 6-18-2012)
6-5-5: PENALTY:
Except as provided in section
6-5-1 of this chapter, any person, firm, or corporation violating any
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed to
occur on each day on which the violation occurs or continues. (1990 Code
§§14.303, 14.503; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2012-O-15, 6-18-2012)
CHAPTER 6
FIREWORKS; EXPLOSIVES; FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Fireworks
6-6-2: Storage Of Explosives
6-6-3: Storage Of Flammable Liquids
6-6-4: Fuel Tanks
6-6-5: Penalty
6-6-1: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Public Displays; Storage: It is unlawful to store, discharge, or set
off any fireworks or to give any pyrotechnic display in the village except in
connection with public exhibitions as is herein provided. (1990 Code §13.201;
amd. 2011 Code)
      1.   Permit Required: No public exhibition of fireworks or pyrotechnics
shall be given unless a permit therefor is first secured from the village
president and board of trustees thirty (30) days before the time of such
display. (1990 Code §13.201)
      2.   Bond: No permit, as required in subsection A1 of this section, shall
be issued unless the applicant therefor has filed with the village clerk a
public liability bond or policy bond in the sum of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) conditioned to pay for damage to property or injury to persons
that may result or accrue from the storage, handling, or display of such
pyrotechnics. (1990 Code §13.204)
      3.   Supervision: All public displays shall be under the supervision of a
competent person and shall be superintended by the chief of the fire protection
district or some other member of a fire department assigned to this duty by the
chief. (1990 Code §13.201; amd. 2011 Code)
      4.   Smoking Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person in charge of
public displays to smoke any lighted pipe, cigarette, or cigar at any time
during which such public display is going on or in the vicinity of materials to
be used for such displays. (1990 Code §13.202)
   B.   Sales Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation
to sell, offer for sale, or keep for the purpose of selling any fireworks in
the village at any time. (1990 Code §13.201)
   C.   Manufacturing Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to manufacture any fireworks in the village. (1990 Code §13.203)
6-6-2: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES:
   A.   Regulations Generally: All explosives must be stored or kept in
accordance with the provisions of the statutes related thereto. (1990 Code
§13.206)
   B.   Nitroglycerin And TNT Prohibited: It is unlawful to keep or store any
nitroglycerin or the explosive commonly known as TNT in the village in any
quantity, except for medicinal or laboratory purposes, and for such purposes,
no more than one- fourth (1/4) ounce shall be stored in any one building or
premises. (1990 Code §13.205)
6-6-3: STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
   A.   Definition: "Flammable liquid", as used in this section, shall be
construed to include gasoline, naphtha, benzine, kerosene, motor fuel oil or
any other liquid having a flashpoint of seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) or
below, by the closed cup test method. (1990 Code §13.801)
   B.   Residential District Restrictions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to maintain
or store in or upon property zoned residential in the village any flammable
liquid in excess of ten (10) gallons. (1990 Code §13.802)
      2.   Storage of flammable liquids in or upon property zoned residential
inthe village shall be in accordance with the following rules:
         a.   Such storage shall be in a proper safety container, removed from
flame or open fire. Such storage must not be in any cellar, basement or pit,
and should be in a room with direct ventilation to the outside and preferably
in an outbuilding or garage. (1990 Code §13.803)
         b.   All such containers shall be painted red, and no liquids other
than flammable liquids shall be placed in such containers. Kerosene shall be
stored in a blue container. (1990 Code §13.803; amd. 2011 Code)
         c.   No flammable liquids shall be poured into any sewer or drain
which connects with a sewer system or water drainage system.
   C.   Compliance With State And Federal Laws: Storage of flammable liquids
shall be in accordance with applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
(1990 Code §13.803)
6-6-4: FUEL TANKS:
It is unlawful to install or maintain any fuel oil, gas, or liquid gas tank
unless such tank and all equipment connected therewith is installed and
maintained in accordance with the regulations of the state fire marshal or any
other state agency having jurisdiction thereof. (1990 Code §14.207)
6-6-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code §§13.207, 13.804, 14.213; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 7
FALSE ALARMS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: False Alarms Prohibited; Preventive Measures; Penalties
6-7-3: Violation; Citation
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
ALARM: Any mechanical or electronic device or assembly of equipment designed,
intended or arranged to signal the occurrence of an illegal or unpermitted
entry, a fire, a need for emergency medical assistance or other activity
requiring urgent attention and to which the village police department or other
village employees or personnel are expected or may be reasonably anticipated to
respond. Alarm shall include any fire alarms and emergency medical alarms that
the village police department does respond to or assist with. Alarm shall also
include any system that is either connected to an automatic notification system
that contacts emergency dispatchers, or any system that, once triggered, emits
notification to passersby, whether through flashing lights, the emission of
sound, or other means.
ALARM COMPANY: Any firm, person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity
that services, monitors or installs alarms within the corporate limits of the
village.
ALARM USER: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other legal entity of
any kind which is in control of any item of tangible property, whether personal
property or real property, including, but not limited to, automobiles,
buildings, structures, facilities and other articles of property upon which an
alarm is maintained.
FALSE ALARM: Shall describe any circumstance in which an alarm transmits a
signal that is conveyed to the village through any means (including, but not
limited to, a report of an activated alarm or the automated transmission of a
notice to the village), or any other circumstance where an alarm is activated
and any village personnel respond to said alarm, when a situation requiring
such a response does not exist. False alarms also include alarms triggered by
inadvertence, negligence or by an intentional act or omission of an alarm
company, alarm user or other person. Notwithstanding the foregoing, false alarm
shall not include:
   A.   Alarms caused by the installation, repair, maintenance or testing of an
alarm or of electrical utility lines or other utilities servicing a premises
equipped with an alarm if the village receives actual notice in advance of the
activity in connection with the alarm. If alarm installation, repair,
maintenance or testing is to occur on more than one date, the village must be
notified on each date on which such activity is to occur, not less than one
hour prior to the time at which such activity is to occur.
   B.   Alarms caused by an attempted illegal entry of which there is visible
evidence.
   C.   Alarms triggered by any reason, when the village is notified that the
reported alarm is a false alarm prior to the time at which any village
personnel undertake to begin a response to said alarm.
RESPONSE OR RESPOND: Any preparation or activity taken by any village
personnel, including, but not limited to, the village police department, as the
direct or proximate result of a report being received by the village, in any
form, that an alarm has become activated within the corporate limits of the
village. (Ord. 2010-07, 4-5-2010)
6-7-2: FALSE ALARMS PROHIBITED 1 ; PREVENTIVE MEASURES; PENALTIES:
   A.   The occurrence of false alarms within the village constitutes a public
nuisance which the village may abate through any means available at law or in
equity.
   B.   Any alarm company or alarm user acting within the corporate limits of
the village shall be required to utilize and implement appropriate and
reasonable means to prevent the occurrence or recurrence of false alarms, and
it shall be unlawful to fail to do so. Violation of this subsection shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each day
that the violation is permitted to continue.
   C.   Immediately upon the detection of any issue or condition that is
causing or generating false alarms, the alarm user shall seek immediate repair
of said alarm and shall discontinue use of said alarm until such point in time
as the alarm is repaired and the condition causing the false alarms is
rectified. In the event any alarm user occupies a structure which is required
by law to utilize an alarm system, said alarm user shall not be required to
discontinue use of said alarm, but shall be required to employ an alarm company
to repair the alarm and to address the condition generating the false alarms
within twenty four (24) hours of the detection of the issue or condition
generating or causing false alarms. Violation of these requirements is unlawful
and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each day that the violation is permitted to continue.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any alarm user to permit the occurrence of
more than three (3) false alarms within a rolling (i.e., noncalendar) twelve
(12) month period, emitted from the same building, structure, facility or item
of property. On the occurrence of a fourth or subsequent false alarm within a
twelve (12) month period, fines shall be assessed as follows:
Fourth offense: Seventy five dollars ($75.00).
Fifth offense: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
Sixth or subsequent offense: One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
Each separate violation of this subsection shall be separately punishable by
fine; provided, that a response has been triggered by the violation, even if
the violations occur on the same day.
   E.   It shall be unlawful to negligently, knowingly or intentionally trigger
or set off an alarm under circumstances where the person triggering the alarm
knows or reasonably should know that the circumstances do not justify the
triggering of the alarm, or knows or reasonably should know that the triggering
of the alarm creates a false alarm. Violation of this subsection shall be
punishable by a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and a maximum of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per occurrence.
   F.   All of the fines set forth in this section are minimum fines which may
be increased based upon the circumstances of any given case and which do not
include court costs or other similar charges. (Ord. 2010-07, 4-5-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-4-22 of this title.
6-7-3: VIOLATION; CITATION:
Upon the detection of any violation of this chapter, the village police
department may issue an ordinance violation citation to the offender. (Ord.
2010-07, 4-5-2010)
CHAPTER 8
GRAFFITI
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: Prohibited Acts
6-8-3: Accessibility To Graffiti Implements Or Paraphernalia
6-8-4: Parental Responsibility
6-8-5: Nuisance Declaration; Prohibition
6-8-6: Payment For Removal Of Graffiti And Restitution By Perpetrator
6-8-7: Removal Of Graffiti By Property Owner Or The Village
6-8-8: Lien
6-8-9: Voluntary Graffiti Abatement Program
6-8-10: Ease Of Removal
6-8-11: Graffiti Prevention
6-8-12: Penalty For Violation
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER: Any aerosol container that is adapted or made for the
purpose of applying spray paint or other substances capable of defacing
property.
BROAD TIPPED MARKER: Any felt tip indelible marker or similar implement with a
flat or angled writing surface that, at its broadest width, is greater than
one-fourth inch (1/4"), containing ink or other pigmented liquid that is non-
water soluble, and which does not constitute a "permanent broad tipped marker"
under this section.
ETCHING EQUIPMENT: Any tool, device, or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on any natural or manmade surface including, but not limited
to, a masonry or glass drill bit, carbide drill bit, glass cutter, grinding
stone, awl, carbide scribe, acid etching solutions, or other etching tool or
device capable of scarring any surface.
GRAFFITI: Any writing, printing, marks, signs, symbols, figures, designs,
inscriptions or other drawings which are marked, scratched, etched, scrawled,
painted, drawn or otherwise placed on any exterior surface of a building, wall,
fence, sidewalk, curb or other permanent structure on public or private
property and which have the effect of defacing the property.
GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT OR PARAPHERNALIA: Any aerosol paint container, broad tipped
marker, permanent broad tipped marker, gum label, paint stick or graffiti
stick, etching equipment, or any other device capable of scarring or leaving a
visible mark on any natural or manmade surface, or any paper, design, scrapbook
or drawings illustrating graffiti marks or signs.
GUM LABEL: Any sheet of paper, fabric, plastic or other substance with an
adhesive backing, including any type of sticker, which, when placed upon a
surface, is not easily removed.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: Any person appointed as a guardian or given custody of a minor
by a circuit court of this state or similar court in any other state, but does
not include a person appointed as a guardian or given custody of a minor under
the Illinois juvenile court act.
MINOR: Any natural person who has not yet attained eighteen (18) years of age.
PAINT STICK OR GRAFFITI STICK: Any device containing a solid, non-water soluble
form of paint, chalk, wax, epoxy, or other similar non-water soluble substance
capable of being applied to a surface by pressure and leaving a mark of at
least one-eighth inch (1/8") in width.
PARENT: The lawful father or mother of an unemancipated minor, whether by birth
or adoption.
PERMANENT BROAD TIPPED MARKER: Any felt tip indelible marker or similar
implement with a flat or angled writing surface that, at its broadest width, is
one-fourth inch (1/4") or greater, containing ink or other pigmented liquid
that is non-water soluble, and which is labeled, advertised, marketed or
identified as being permanent in nature or otherwise as being difficult to
remove.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization, receiver, trustee, or any other legal entity of any kind, the
state of Illinois, or any governmental unit.
PROPERTY: Any real estate, including any improvements thereon, and any tangible
personalty.
RETAIL COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any business enterprise, including any
partnership, association, corporation, company, organization, or other legal
entity, which offers for sale or trade aerosol paint containers, broad tipped
markers, gum labels, paint sticks or graffiti sticks, etching equipment, or any
other graffiti implements or paraphernalia. (Ord. 2011-23, 8-1-2011)
6-8-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Defacement: It shall be unlawful for any person to write, paint, spray,
chalk, etch or otherwise apply graffiti on, or to deface, damage, disfigure,
destroy or mar, any public or privately owned buildings, signs, walls,
permanent structures, places, or other surfaces located on any public or
privately owned property within the village.
      1.   Exception: The provisions of this section shall not apply to
federal, state or local government officials and employees, or to authorized
public or private utility officials and employees, with respect to the posting
or labeling of tags, notices, or other markings on buildings or other property
while in the course of their employment or in the performance of their official
duties.
      2.   Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense to an
alleged violation of this subsection if such activity was undertaken with the
prior written consent of the owner of the property demonstrating that the owner
was aware of the content and method of the marking or inscription to be placed
thereon; provided, however, that no owner of property shall place or give
permission to place on any property, real or personal, that is in the public
view, any sign, symbol, marking, name, initial, work, diagram, sketch, picture
or letter that incites violence by reference to gang or criminal activity,
depicts or expresses obscenity by referring to sexual activity, or contains
defamatory material about a public or private person.
   B.   Possession Of Graffiti Implements Or Paraphernalia:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession
any graffiti implement or paraphernalia while in, upon or immediately adjacent
to any public property, or while in or upon private property without the
consent of the owner, with the intent to paint, spray, chalk, etch or otherwise
apply graffiti on, or to deface, damage, disfigure, destroy, or mar, any public
or privately owned buildings, signs, walls, permanent structures, places or
other surfaces located on any public or privately owned property within the
village in a manner prohibited by this chapter.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to have in his or her possession
any graffiti implement or paraphernalia while in, upon or immediately adjacent
to any public property, or while in or upon any private property without the
consent of the owner, whether the minor is or is not in a vehicle.
         a.   Exceptions:
            (1)   A minor who is accompanied by his or her legal guardian or
under the immediate supervision of an adult teacher.
            (2)   A minor who is attending and actively enrolled in a class
which requires use of such implements, for which written permission from the
school is in his or her possession. (Ord. 2011-23, 8-1-2011)
6-8-3: ACCESSIBILITY TO GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS OR PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Furnishing To Minors Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a parent or legal
guardian, to sell, exchange, give, loan, or otherwise furnish, or cause or
permit to be exchanged, given, loaned, or otherwise furnished, any graffiti
implements or paraphernalia to any minor without the written consent of the
parent or legal guardian of such minor.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any retail commercial establishment to sell
any graffiti implements or paraphernalia to any minor.
   B.   Signage Required: Every person who owns, conducts, operates or manages
a retail commercial establishment that offers for sale or trade graffiti
implements or paraphernalia shall:
      1.   Place a sign in clear public view at or near the display of such
products or materials stating as follows:
Graffiti is against the law. Any person who defaces real or personal property
with paint or any other liquid or device is guilty of a crime punishable by a
fine of not less than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00).
      2.   Place a sign in direct view of such persons responsible for
accepting customer payment for graffiti implements or paraphernalia stating as
follows:
Selling spray paint, paint sticks, broad-tipped markers, or other graffiti
implements or paraphernalia to persons under eighteen (18) years of age is
against the law and punishable by a fine of not less than One Thousand Dollars
($1,000.00).
   C.   Identification: Every retail commercial establishment that offers for
sale or trade graffiti implements or paraphernalia shall require a photographic
form of identification to be produced by each person purchasing any graffiti
implement or paraphernalia establishing that such person is eighteen (18) years
or older. (Ord. 2011-23, 8-1-2011)
6-8-4: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person eighteen (18) years or older,
including a parent or legal guardian, to wilfully, knowingly or recklessly
permit, cause or aid any minor to violate any provisions of this chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor who resides with such parent or legal guardian to neglect
to restrain such minor from committing any act prohibited by this chapter. A
minor shall be deemed to have committed any of the offenses enumerated in this
chapter with the knowledge, consent, acquiescence, and permission of such
minor's parent or legal guardian. The parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor who resides with such parent or legal guardian shall be
liable for any acts of graffiti or any other violations of this chapter
committed by said minor, and such parent or legal guardian shall be jointly and
severally liable with the minor for the payment of all fines, or any
requirement of restitution or reparation, that may be imposed by a court upon
the minor defendant for a violation of this chapter.
   C.   Parental responsibility under this section shall apply where a parent
or legal guardian has received written notice of a violation of this chapter,
either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service of summons or notice to appear. In any action brought pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter against an unemancipated minor, the parent or
legal guardian shall be made a party defendant. (Ord. 2011-23, 8-1-2011)
6-8-5: NUISANCE DECLARATION; PROHIBITION:
Graffiti is declared to be a public nuisance. It is declared to be illegal for
the owners, occupants, or any other persons otherwise in control of any real
property in the village to permit upon, allow to remain, or otherwise fail to
remove graffiti from any buildings, signs, walls, permanent structures, places,
or other surfaces located upon such real property, and each day on which
graffiti is found to exist on the property shall constitute a separate
violation. (Ord. 2011-23, 8-1-2011)
6-8-6: PAYMENT FOR REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI AND RESTITUTION BY PERPETRATOR:
Any person applying graffiti on any public or private property in violation of
this chapter shall have the duty to pay for the removal of such graffiti. In
addition, any violator of this chapter shall make restitution to the owner of
the property involved for any damages or loss caused directly or indirectly by
the violator's offense. The failure of any person to pay for the removal of
graffiti, or to make restitution to the owner of the property involved, shall
constitute an additional violation of this chapter. Where graffiti is applied
by an unemancipated minor, the parents or legal guardian of said minor shall
also be responsible for the payment for such removal, and for the payment of
restitution. (Ord. 2011-23, 8-1-2011)
6-8-7: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI BY PROPERTY OWNER OR THE VILLAGE:
If graffiti is not removed pursuant to section
6-8-9 of this chapter, graffiti shall be removed pursuant to the following
provisions:
If the owner of any real property permits upon, allows to remain, or otherwise
fails to remove graffiti, the village shall be entitled to enter onto any such
real property and remove such graffiti upon ten (10) days' written notice, sent
by certified mail, return receipt requested, in addition to the imposition of
any other applicable rights and penalties. Such notice shall advise the
property owner that unless the subject graffiti nuisance is abated or unless
the property owner objects to the entry onto the subject property in writing to
the director of code administration and preservation on or before a date
certain, which date shall not be less than ten (10) days from the date of
mailing, the village shall enter onto the subject property and abate the
nuisance as provided herein. In the event of a timely written objection as
provided herein, the village shall file an action in the circuit court
complaining of a violation of the provisions of this chapter, and requesting an
order authorizing entry onto the subject property to remove the graffiti and
for such other relief as may be provided by law. If no written objection is
timely filed, the village, or such person authorized to remove the graffiti on
behalf of the village, shall be entitled to enter onto the subject property and
abate the nuisance by causing the removal of any graffiti located thereon. The
village or its authorized agent shall not be liable for any claims for damages
resulting from working on or otherwise removing graffiti from an owner's
property pursuant to this section. (Ord. 2011-23, 8-1-2011)
6-8-8: LIEN:
Except as provided in section
6-8-9 of this chapter, if graffiti is removed by the village or by someone
directed to remove the graffiti on behalf of the village, a notice of lien of
the cost and expense thereof incurred by the village shall be recorded in the
following manner:
The village or the person performing the service by authority of the village,
in its or his own name, may file a notice of lien in the office of the recorder
of deeds in the county in which said real estate is located. The notice of lien
shall consist of a sworn statement setting out a description of the real estate
sufficient for identification thereof, the amount of money representing the
cost and expense incurred or payable for the service, and the date or dates
when said cost and expense was incurred by the village, and shall be filed
within sixty (60) days after the cost and expense is incurred.
For the purpose of this chapter, cost and expense shall be a sum equal to the
actual cost of graffiti removal, plus an additional administrative fee equal to
the actual cost of graffiti removal but not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), to cover general overhead,
inspection expenses, location of and notice to owner, and incidental and
related actions.
Upon filing of a notice of lien as provided herein, the village shall have a
lien upon the land described therein and upon which the graffiti removal or
other service have been made to secure cost and expenses thereof and nine
percent (9%) interest per year on the amount, which interest shall begin
accruing sixty (60) days after the cost is incurred. Such lien shall be in
addition to and shall not constitute a waiver of any additional penalties,
including, but not limited to, fines, as may be available by law. (Ord. 2011-
23, 8-1-2011)
6-8-9: VOLUNTARY GRAFFITI ABATEMENT PROGRAM:
The owner of any real estate may enter into the voluntary graffiti abatement
program. To enter into said program, the owner of real estate shall execute a
written agreement with the village which authorizes the village to enter onto a
subject property at any time graffiti appears thereon. Such agreement will also
provide that the owner agrees to release and hold harmless the village and the
village's agent or contractor from any claims for damages resulting from
working or otherwise removing graffiti on a property. Graffiti removal done
pursuant to the voluntary graffiti abatement program shall be done free of
charge to the owner of the real estate. (Ord. 2011-23, 8-1-2011)
6-8-10: EASE OF REMOVAL:
   A.   Common Utility Colors And Paint Type: Any gas, electric, telephone,
water, sewer, cable, telephone and other utility operating in the village shall
paint its above surface metal fixtures with a uniform paint type and color that
meets with the approval of the director of the department of code
administration.
   B.   Conditions On Encroachment Permits: All encroachment permits or
licenses issued by the village shall, among such other things, be conditioned
on the following:
      1.   The permittee's application of an antigraffiti material to the
encroaching object of a type and nature that is acceptable to the director of
the department of code administration, or the director's designee;
      2.   The permittee's immediate removal of any graffiti;
      3.   The village's right to remove graffiti or to paint the encroaching
object; and
      4.   The permittee's providing the village with sufficient matching paint
and/or antigraffiti material on demand for use in the painting of the
encroaching object containing graffiti.
   C.   Conditions On Land Use Development: In approving any subdivisions of
property, zoning map amendments, conditional and special use permits,
variations, or other similar land use entitlements, the village shall consider
imposing any or all of the following conditions, or other similar or related
conditions, as a condition for approval of the subdivision, zoning map
amendment, conditional and special use permits, variance or other similar land
use entitlement:
      1.   Use Of Antigraffiti Material: Developer shall apply an antigraffiti
material of a type and nature that is acceptable to the director of the
department of code administration, or the director's designee, to the publicly
viewable surfaces on the improvements to be constructed at the site deemed by
the village manager, or designee, to be likely to attract graffiti;
      2.   Right Of Access To Remove Graffiti: Developer shall grant to the
village the right of entry over and access to any such parcels, upon forty
eight (48) hours' posting of notice by authorized village employees or agents,
for the purpose of removing or painting over graffiti;
      3.   Supply Village With Graffiti Removal Material: Developer shall, for
a period of two (2) years after final approval of any applicable land use
relief, provide the village with sufficient matching paint and/or antigraffiti
material on demand for use in the painting over or removal of graffiti; and/or
      4.   Owner To Immediately Remove Graffiti: Developer shall, either as
part of the general conditions, covenants and restrictions, or separate
covenants recorded against individual lots, prior to resale of any of the
parcels, covenant in a form satisfactory to the village that any subsequent
owner of such lots shall immediately remove any graffiti placed thereon. (Ord.
2011-23, 8-1-2011)
6-8-11: GRAFFITI PREVENTION:
   A.   Design Of Potential Graffiti Attracting Surfaces: Any applicant for
design review or subdivision approval, variations, conditional and special use
permits, development agreement, or other form of development or building permit
shall, to the extent deemed feasible by the director of the department of code
administration, or the director's designee, design any building structures
visible from any public or quasi-public place in such a manner so as to
consider prevention of graffiti, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Use of a protective coating to provide for the effective and
expeditious removal of graffiti;
      2.   Use of additional lighting;
      3.   Use of nonsolid fencing;
      4.   Use of landscaping designed to cover large expansive walls such as
ivy or similar clinging vegetation; and/or
      5.   Use of architectural design to break up long, continuous walls or
solid areas. (Ord. 2011-23, 8-1-2011)
6-8-12: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for each offense. Any such fine shall be in addition to the obligation to pay
the costs of graffiti removal and administrative costs as provided in this
chapter, and to make restitution to any private property owner or to the
village for damages or loss caused by, or costs incurred as a result of, the
violator's offense. In the case of a minor, the parents or legal guardian shall
be jointly and severally liable with the minor for the payment of all fines,
the payment of all costs of graffiti removal and administrative costs, and any
costs for restitution as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2011-23, 8-1-2011)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: State Vehicle Code And Village Regulations Adopted; Citation Options
7-1-2: Emergency Vehicles
7-1-1: STATE VEHICLE CODE AND VILLAGE REGULATIONS ADOPTED; CITATION OPTIONS:
   A.   Pursuant to statutory authority, Chapter 625 of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes and any and all amendments thereto which may hereinafter be enacted by
the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, is hereby expressly adopted and
incorporated in its entirety by reference as the vehicle code for the village.
Reference to any provision contained in said vehicle code shall be made by
referring to the same section number for each such section as contained in the
Illinois vehicle code and denoting the nature of the charge as stated in
subsection B of this section.
   B.   In supplement to the adoption of the Illinois vehicle code, the
miscellaneous traffic regulations set out in this title are hereby adopted and
shall remain in full force and effect unless otherwise amended or repealed by
further ordinance. The village shall have the option of charging any offense
under either the vehicle code as a state charge, the vehicle code as a local
charge, or a local ordinance as a local charge, and shall so designate on any
citation or charging instrument. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-18-2010; amd. Ord. 2019-O-02,
1-21-2019)
7-1-2: EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
In accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-105, public works
department equipment and vehicles owned and operated by village of Pingree
Grove personnel are hereby designated to be authorized emergency vehicles in
the village of Pingree Grove, Illinois, for the following purposes of emergency
or disaster situations resulting from natural and domestic conditions:
snowstorms; windstorms; rainstorms; fire; explosion; chemical spills; and,
other similar situations as approved by the village administrator, chief of
police or public works director or supervisor. (Ord. 2013-O-06, 4-1-2013)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Enforcement On Certain Property
7-2-2: Citations And Arrests
7-2-3: Penalties
7-2-1: ENFORCEMENT ON CERTAIN PROPERTY:
   A.   Contracts: Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209, the
village may contract with school boards, hospitals, churches and shopping
center and apartment complex owners for the regulation of traffic. The
provisions contained in this title and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209
shall be applicable to the property that is subject to such contracts, and the
village shall have the authority to enforce said regulations as established by
said contracts.
   B.   Private Streets And Roads: If the village is requested in writing
pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209.1, by any person(s) or
board of directors owning, operating or representing a residential subdivision,
development, apartment house or apartment project containing a minimum of ten
(10) apartments or single-family residences to enforce the provisions of the
Illinois vehicle code on private streets or roads open to or used by the
tenants, owners, employees or the public for the purposes of vehicular traffic
by permission, and not as a matter of public right, then the provisions
contained in this title and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209.1 shall be
applicable to the property that is subject to such written requests, and the
village shall have the authority to enforce said regulations as provided
herein. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006)
7-2-2: CITATIONS AND ARRESTS:
   A.   Procedure: The village may institute prosecution of persons violating
the provisions of this title by preparing a traffic citation slip and serving
the same either by securely affixing same to the vehicle at a place where the
offense was committed or by delivering such arrest notice or summons slip to
the person in charge of the vehicle; provided, however, that the provisions of
this subsection shall not apply to any person arrested and charged with an
offense contributing to an accident resulting in injury or death to any person,
or to a person charged with reckless driving, or to any person charged with
driving while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs, or
to any person whom the arresting officer shall have reasonable cause to believe
has committed any felony, or to any person whom the arresting officer has
reasonable cause to believe will not appear pursuant to the arrest notice at
the time and place specified, or to any person who is a nonresident of the
state, and in either one or more of such events, the arresting officer shall
take such person or persons before the nearest and most accessible court having
jurisdiction of such offenses, or by taking the operator of the vehicle or such
other person who has violated any provision of this title into custody at the
time of committing the offense and taking the offender before the court having
jurisdiction of the offense and making a written complaint before such court.
   B.   Release On Bail: Every person arrested for a violation of this title
shall be released upon bail being furnished in the proper amount and according
to procedure prescribed by the statutes.
   C.   Tickets In Lieu Of Arrest: The hang on or other tickets issued under
this title shall be as a courtesy in lieu of arrest. If the operator does not
settle the claim, a warrant or notice to appear will issue for violation of
this title, and such person shall be subject to fines and penalties set forth
herein. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006)
7-2-3: PENALTIES:
Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person found to have been in
violation of any of the terms and provisions of this title shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Unauthorized Vehicles
7-3-2: Careless Driving
7-3-3: Driving While Intoxicated; Transporting Liquor; Reckless Driving;
Squealing Or Screeching Tires; Street Racing
7-3-4: Littering Public Ways
7-3-1: UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle or other vehicle on any
public street, park, sidewalk, bike/pedestrian path, other recreational path,
or other public right of way, except as may be permitted in accordance with the
Illinois Vehicle Code, applicable Village Code (including but not limited to
Title 7, Chapter 7 of this Village Code) or as otherwise permitted by law.
(Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006; amd. Ord. 2008-57, 12-15-2008; Ord. 2019-O-36, 11-4-
2019)
7-3-2: CARELESS DRIVING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive carelessly within the village. For
purposes of this section, "careless driving" is failure to maintain a vehicle
under control, exceeding the posted speed limit by more than ten (10) miles per
hour or operating a vehicle in any manner other than as permitted by law. (Ord.
2006-08, 4-17-2006)
7-3-3: DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED; TRANSPORTING LIQUOR; RECKLESS DRIVING;
SQUEALING OR SCREECHING TIRES; STREET RACING:
   A.   State Regulations Adopted: The regulations of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-500 through 5/11-506, inclusive, as amended, are hereby adopted
as regulations of the village. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Penalties: In the event of conviction of any provision of this section,
the violator shall be subject to the same fine and penalties as provided in
those regulations and statutes hereby adopted by reference. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-
17-2006)
7-3-4: LITTERING PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any litter upon any street or
right of way of the village. The term "litter" shall include, but is not
limited to, trash, debris, dirt, construction materials, gravel, or the like.
(Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006)
CHAPTER 4
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
7-4-1: One-Way Streets
7-4-2: Traffic Control Signals
7-4-3: Yield Intersections
7-4-4: Stop Intersections
7-4-5: Turning Restrictions
7-4-6: Speed Limits
7-4-1: ONE-WAY STREETS:
The following streets are designated as one-way direction flow, per signage:
Reinking Road/Damisch Road roundabout.
(Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
7-4-2: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS:
Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-304, traffic control signals
are hereby designated at the following intersections in the Village: (Ord.
2006-08, 4-17-2006)
Illinois Route 47 at both intersections with Illinois Routes 20 and 72.
Reinking Road at Illinois Route 72.
(Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006; amd. Ord. 2017-O-18, 9-5-2017)
7-4-3: YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-304, yield signs are hereby
designated at the following intersections in the Village:
Reinking Road/Damisch Road roundabout.
(Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
7-4-4: STOP INTERSECTIONS:
   Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-302, stop signs are hereby
designated at the following intersections in the Village: (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-
2006)
Traffic On Stops At
Traffic On                    Stops At
Allison Avenue                Bella Drive
Alta Vista                    Ruby
Alta Vista (both directions)  Wester
Anchorage                     Highland
Andrew Boulevard              Reinking Road
Aurora Drive                  Allison Avenue
Aurora Drive                  Route 72
Bay Shore                     Valley Stream
Bay Shore                     Wester
Bayberry Circle               Bayberry Lane
Bayberry Lane                 Rosebrook Drive
Beachview                     Lake Bluff
Beachview                     Lookout
Bella Drive                   Allison Avenue
Bella Drive                   Thurnau Road
Berkshire                     Bristol
Berkshire                     Portsmouth
Birchwood                     Wester
Blue Bell                     Larkspur
Blue Bell                     Woodfern
Boathouse                     Catamaran
Brighton                      Canterbury
Brighton                      Dover
Brookhaven                    Wester
Cambridge Lakes               Reinking
Cambridge Lakes               Wester
Canterbury                    Dover
Cape Cod                      Diamond Head
Cape Cod                      Lookout
Catamaran                     Boathouse
Catamaran                     Highland
Catamaran                     Leeward
Cedarwood Circle              Cedarwood Lane
Cedarwood Lane                Hollow Tree Lane
Cherry                        Chestnut
Cherry                        Lakeland
Chestnut                      Crest
Chestnut                      Lakeland
Clearwater                    Lighthouse
Clover                        Emerald
Crest                         Wildwood
Daniel Boulevard              Reinking Road
Daniel Boulevard              Richard J. Brown
Daytona Way                   Clearwater
Daytona Way                   Padre Island
Dempsey Circle                Bayberry Lane
Derry                         Galway
Dover                         Bayshore
Dover                         Bristol
Dover Court                   Dover
Driftwood                     Wester
Dublin Drive                  Daniel Boulevard
Dublin Drive                  Hollow Tree Lane
Emerald                       Emerald
Emerald                       Galway
Emerald                       Wester
Emma Lane                     Cottage Drive
Emma Lane                     Hollow Tree Lane
Evergreen                     Birchwood
Galway                        Cambridge Lakes
Galway                        Emerald
Glen Cove                     Bayshore
Glen Cove                     Valley Stream
Grove                         Oak
Highland                      Reinking
Hollow Tree Lane              Cedarwood Lane
Hollow Tree Lane              Dublin Drive
Jackson                       Grove
Lake Bluff                    Alta Vista
Lake Bluff                    Broadland
Lake Bluff                    Lookout
Lakeland                      Sarasota
Lancaster                     Cambridge Lakes
Lancaster                     Reinking
Lancaster                     Sheffield
Lancaster                     Yorkshire
Larkspur Court                Woodfern
Leeward Lane (All directions) Catamaran Circle
Lighthouse                    Wester
Lookout                       Beachview
Lookout                       Wester
Mansfield                     Reinking
Maryland                      Norfolk (east and west ends)
Meadowood Drive               Cedarwood Circle (R); Cedarwood Lane (L)
Meadowood Drive               Daniel Boulevard
Middleton Road                Hollow Tree Lane
Montauk                       Shelter Island
Montauk                       Westport
Newport Circle (South)        Newport
Newport Court                 Lighthouse
Norfolk                       Reinking
Oxford Court                  Bristol
Port Royal                    Padre Island
Port Royal                    Sarasota
Portsmouth                    Dover
Prairie                       Oak
Pricilla Drive                Bayberry Lane (S) Bayberry Circle (N)
Pricilla Drive                Richard J. Brown
Promontory                    Cape Cod
Public                        Reinking
Railroad                      Reinking
Redwood Road                  Hollow Tree Lane
Reinking                      Route 20
Reinking                      Wester
Richard J. Brown              Daniel Boulevard
Richard J. Brown              Route 72
Richard J. Brown              Wester
Rosebrook Drive               Dempsey Circle (L); Bayberry Lane (R)
Sandcastle                    Alta Vista
Sandcastle                    Driftwood
Sapphire                      Lakeland
Sapphire                      Ruby
Sarasota                      Lighthouse
Shamrock                      Emerald
Sheffield                     Reinking
Shelter Island                Wester
Shoreline                     Catamaran
Shoreline Court               Shoreline Drive
Shoreline Drive               Waterfront Lane
Silver Lake Court             Catamaran Circle
Spinnaker                     Alta Vista
Spinnaker                     Diamond Head
Store                         Damisch
Summit                        Crest
Summit                        Wildwood
Thurnau Road                  Route 20
Thurnau Road                  Route 72
Valley Stream                 Bayshore
Waterfront Lane               Catamaran Circle
Wester                        Bayshore
Wester                        Cambridge Lakes
Wester                        Campus
                              Intersection with public school entrance
Wester                        approximately 880 feet southeast of Cambridge
                              Lakes Drive
Wester                        Reinking
Wester                        Richard J. Brown
Wester                        Route 72
Wester (both directions)      Alta Vista
Wester (both directions)      Lighthouse
Westport                      Brookhaven (east and west end)
Wildwood                      Padre Island
Windward                      Alta Vista
Woodfern                      Cambridge Lakes
Woodfern                      Larkspur
Yorkshire                     Lancaster
 
(Ord. 2017-O-18, 9-5-2017; amd. Ord. 2017-O-19, 9-18-2017; Ord. 2025-O-06, 6-
16-2025)
7-4-5: TURNING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Left Turns: The following left turns shall be prohibited:
      Route 72 onto Wester Boulevard.
      Wester Boulevard onto Route 72.
   B.   Left Turns, Restricted At Specified Times: It shall be unlawful to make
a left turn at the following described locations, on school days, between the
hours of three o'clock (3:00) P.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.:
      1.   Southbound from Cambridge Lakes Drive onto eastbound Wester
Boulevard;
      2.   Westbound from Campus Drive onto southbound Cambridge Lakes Drive;
      3.   Northbound from Cambridge Lakes Drive onto westbound Galway Drive.
(Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2014-07, 3-17-2014; Ord. 2025-O-
06, 6-16-2025)
7-4-6: SPEED LIMITS:
The following speed limits shall be observed on the designated roadways within
the Village:
   A.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour: All Village streets unless otherwise
provided. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006)
   B.   Thirty (30) miles per hour: Reinking Road between Illinois Route 47 and
Wester Boulevard. (Ord. 2007-97, 12-3-2007)
   C.   Thirty (30) miles per hour: Oak Street (Route 20) between Prairie and
Reinking. (Ord. 2017-O-18, 9-5-2017)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: No Parking On Specific Streets
7-5-2: Restrictions On Parking
7-5-3: Municipal Parking Lots
7-5-4: School Parking Areas
7-5-5: Parking After Snowfall Or Weather Event
7-5-6: Commercial Vehicles, Commercial Equipment And Recreational Vehicles
7-5-7: Inoperable Vehicles And Trailers
7-5-8: Presumption Of Owner's Liability
7-5-9: Penalties For Unauthorized Use Of Parking Spaces Reserved For Persons
With Disabilities
7-5-10: Penalties
7-5-1: NO PARKING ON SPECIFIC STREETS:
No parking or standing shall be permitted at any time on the following streets:
   Illinois Route 72.
   Reinking.
   Richard J. Brown.
   U.S. Route 20.
   Wester.
(Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006; amd. Ord. 2024-O-01, 2-20-2024)
7-5-2: RESTRICTIONS ON PARKING:
   A.   Residential Streets:
      1.   On any residential street within the Village where the paved portion
of the street is equal to or lesser than twenty four feet (24') in width,
vehicles shall be required to park only on one side of the street in an
otherwise lawful parking area. The terms in this subsection A1 shall have the
same definitions as those provided in the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. 2006-28,
10-6-2006)
      2.   No vehicle under repair, inoperable motor vehicle, or vehicle in a
state of partial disassembly may be parked on any public street.
   B.   Sale Or Repair Of Vehicle: No person shall park a vehicle upon any
roadway for the principal purpose of displaying such vehicle for sale or
repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by emergency for a duration
of not longer than six (6) hours.
   C.   All Night Parking: No person shall park any vehicle on that part of any
street within the Village limits between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on any day.
   D.   Prohibited Parking Areas; Time Limit Parking: No person shall park a
vehicle at a prohibited location or for a period of time longer than indicated
upon signs properly posted.
   E.   Boats, Trailers And Recreational Vehicles: No person shall park a boat,
trailer or recreational vehicle on any street within the Village for more than
forty eight (48) hours at a time. No person shall park any boat or trailer on
any street within the Village at any time, unless it is properly connected to a
lawfully registered and operable Motor Vehicle capable of safety and legally
moving the boat or trailer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a trailer may be
parked on a Village street, during daylight, during normal working hours
(permitted under Village Code), for a period of not longer than eight (8)
hours, when the trailer and/or the tow vehicle is actually and actively in the
process of being loaded or unloaded, or is otherwise necessary to be unhooked
for work purposes. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006)
   F.   Unimproved And Unapproved Surfaces: It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle (including but not limited to cars, trucks, trailers, motorcycles,
motor-driven cycles, recreational vehicles and any other item defined as a
vehicle under the Illinois Vehicle Code) in whole or in part on any unimproved
or unapproved surface within the Village of Pingree Grove, unless such area is
approved for temporary parking during a special event, or is utilized as
parking for a recreational facility comprising more than one hundred (100)
acres in size.
 
                    Any surface that is not constructed in accordance with the
                    applicable regulations of the Village of Pingree Grove,
                    including any driveway or parking area that was installed
                    without obtaining appropriate permits or which is
                    unlawfully installed or constructed on public property or
                    any setback or right-of-way area (except pursuant to a
                    lawful permit), any driveway or parking area that is
UNAPPROVED SURFACE: installed with materials not permitted by this Code or not
                    installed in accordance with this Code (e.g., temporary
                    parking surfaces composed of paver blocks or other similar
                    materials), and other similar surfaces. Any vehicle that is
                    parked in a front or side yard setback area or the location
                    between the front building line of a residential lot and
                    the street, other than on a properly permitted and
                    installed permanent driveway surface, shall be deemed to be
                    parking on an unapproved surface.
                    Any surface comprised of grass, weed, dirt or similar
                    substances and any parkway. Unimproved surface shall also
                    mean any lawn or grass areas or landscaped areas. A surface
                    that was formerly gravel but which has not been maintained
UNIMPROVED SURFACE: with a good, current, consistent and complete coating of
                    gravel shall constitute an unimproved surface. Any vehicle
                    which is parked and maintained on blocks or stands that
                    keep the wheels of the vehicle from touching the ground
                    and/or from bearing the weight of the vehicle shall be
                    deemed to be parked on an unimproved surface.
 
   G.   Stopping, Standing And Parking:
      1.   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles and a clear view
of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of two hundred feet
(200') in each direction upon such highway.
      2.   The Public Works or Police Department may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any street where
in its opinion such stopping, standing or parking is dangerous to those using
the highway or where the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would unduly
interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any such regulations
adopted by either department or by any other governmental agency with
jurisdiction over streets regarding the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles upon any specific street, streets or highways become effective at the
time of the erection of appropriate signs indicating such regulations.
      3.   Emergency Restrictions: In the event of severe weather such as
tornado, severe thunderstorm, blizzard, flooding or other severe weather
conditions, or in the event of a natural or manmade disaster such as a fire,
gas leak, hazardous materials situation or other natural or manmade calamity,
the Chief of Police or designee thereof shall be authorized to immediately
implement such temporary parking regulations or prohibitions as shall be
necessary to protect public safety and public or private property, and to
address or mitigate hazards associated with the exigent circumstances. Such
authority shall include the ability to implement such measures as shall be
necessary to address the circumstances including but not limited to creation of
temporary parking restrictions or bans, removal/towing/relocation of cars,
temporary traffic regulations or other similar actions. Notice of such
emergency regulations or restrictions shall be given as soon as possible and by
whatever means reasonably practical under the circumstances including the
provision of verbal notice, the posting of temporary signage, the provision of
notification through news outlets, the Village website or social media, or such
other medium of notification as shall be available.
      4.   Applicable Restrictions: No person shall stop or park any vehicle in
any location where prohibited under any applicable provision of the Illinois
Vehicle Code (which is adopted herein by reference as if fully restated) or any
other provision of the Village Code.
      5.   Temporary Restrictions: The Chief of Police and their designees
shall be authorized to impose temporary parking restrictions (limited hours,
limited types of vehicles, etc.) or parking prohibitions (no parking permitted)
within the Village, under the provisions of this Section.
         a.   Duration of Restrictions: Said temporary restrictions may be
imposed for a period of no more than sixty (60) days at a time.
         b.   Method of Posting/Notice: No such temporary parking restrictions
shall be enforced until at least forty eight (48) hours have passed since the
posting of temporary signs in the affected area, indicating the applicable
restrictions. Said temporary signs shall be enforceable for the time that they
remain posted. In the event of an emergency that requires less notice, the
temporary restrictions may be imposed and enforced upon the provision of
personal notice to any vehicles parked in the area of the temporary signs at
the time of their posting, and the temporary signs shall indicate the time at
which the temporary restrictions shall take effect.
         c.   Enforcement: Once forty eight (48) hours have passed after the
posting of temporary signs (or a lesser period in the event of emergency
posting), the temporary parking restrictions may be enforced in the same
fashion as any other Village parking restriction, and shall have the effect of
Village Ordinance. Because such temporary restrictions are intended to be
utilized in circumstances where the Village determines that parking presents a
public safety threat, any vehicle parked in violation of the temporary parking
restrictions shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100), and shall be subject to immediate towing.
         d.   Removal or Tampering with Temporary Parking Restriction Signs: It
shall unlawful to move, remove, alter or tamper with any temporary parking
restriction signs posted by the Village. Any such violation shall be subject to
a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500).
   H.   Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited In Specified Places:
      1.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control device, no person shall:
         a.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
            (1)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the
edge or curb of a street;
            (2)   On or over a sidewalk between the hours of six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on any day;
            (3)   Within an intersection;
            (4)   On a crosswalk;
            (5)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty
feet (30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety
zone, unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings;
            (6)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction
when stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
            (7)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
            (8)   On any railroad tracks. A violation of any part of this
subsection H1a(8) shall result in a mandatory fine of five hundred dollars
($500.00) or fifty (50) hours of community service;
            (9)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
            (10)   On any controlled-access highway;
            (11)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers;
            (12)   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration, or if the vehicle is otherwise an inoperable motor vehicle as
defined by Village Code or the Illinois Vehicle Code.
            (13)   Within the confines of a roundabout intersection, nor within
thirty (30) feet of any access point thereto that comes from a public street
(i.e. any intersecting roadway). For purposes of this Ordinance, an
intersection shall be considered a roundabout if it: a) is a circular
intersection where traffic from multiple ingress points enter and travel in a
counter-clockwise direction to access any egress point; b) is designated in any
official approved plan or document as a roundabout; or, c) is signed in
accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices as a roundabout.
Any vehicle parked in a roundabout shall be eligible for immediate towing.
         b.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
            (1)   In front of a public or private driveway;
            (2)   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
            (3)   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
            (4)   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of
a roadway;
            (5)   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly sign-posted);
            (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing;
            (7)   On any portion of Village Right of Way which is in front of
or adjacent to a parcel improved with a residential or commercial building
without the permission of the parcel's owner or the Village. For purposes of
this subsection, "Right of Way" shall mean that portion of public land adjacent
to a roadway, "roadway" shall mean that portion of a highway improved,
designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the Right of
Way and "highway" shall mean the entire width between the boundary lines of
every way publicly maintained.
         c.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers (with hazard lights illuminated and the vehicle attended at all
times):
            (1)   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing;
            (2)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      2.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into
any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
   I.   Additional Parking Regulations:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped
or parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-
hand wheels parallel to and within twelve inches (12") of the right-hand curb
or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
      2.   Except when otherwise provided by ordinance, every vehicle stopped
or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel to the
curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic movement,
with its right-hand wheels within twelve inches (12") of the right-hand curb or
as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder, or with
its left-hand wheels within twelve inches (12") of the left-hand curb or as
close as practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
      3.   The Public Works or Police Department with respect to streets under
its jurisdiction may place signs prohibiting, limiting, or restricting the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any highway where in its opinion
such stopping, standing or parking is dangerous to those using the highway or
where the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with
the free movement of traffic thereon. No person shall stop, stand or park any
vehicle in violation of the restrictions indicated by such devices.
   J.   Expired Registration And Inoperable Vehicles: No person may stop, park,
or leave standing upon a public street, highway, or roadway a vehicle without a
current license plate and registration sticker, or in any condition which
constitutes as Inoperable Motor Vehicle under the provisions of Village Code or
the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   K.   Mail Boxes: No person may stop, park or leave standing upon a public or
private street, highway or roadway a vehicle where any portion of the vehicle
is within fifteen feet (15') of a mail box.
   L.   Driveways And Garage Doors:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle so as to block a
driveway. When portions of the curb adjacent to a private driveway are painted
yellow and any portion of a vehicle is within the area so painted, the vehicle
shall be deemed to be stopped, standing or parked in violation of this section.
      2.   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle so as to block a
garage or garage door on private property, other than with the consent of the
owner of the garage. In areas where multiple residences or establishments are
served by a single common driveway, it shall be unlawful to park, stand or stop
a vehicle in a location where such vehicle blocks ingress/egress or access to
any garage door (other than with the consent of the owner of such garage).
      3.   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in an alley or in a
common driveway serving four or more residential, commercial or industrial
units: a) for a period of time longer than is necessary for the reasonable
expeditious loading or unloading of such vehicle; nor, b) in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic; nor, c) in
such position as to block the driveway or entrance to any abutting property.
   M.   Private Property: It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle on
private property without having first obtained the consent of the property
owner or his agent. In the case of commercial parking lots, such consent shall
be implied from the presence of parking areas open to the public, but may be
revoked upon the provision of verbal or written notice.
(Ord. 2017-O-09, 5-1-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-O-08, 3-4-2019; Ord. 2019-O-38, 11-4-
2019; Ord. 2019-O-54, 12-16-2019; Ord. 2024-O-02, 2-20-2024; Ord. 2024-O-08, 4-
15-2024)
7-5-3: MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS:
   A.   No person shall park a vehicle in any Municipal parking lot for a
period longer than four (4) continuous hours between five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
to the following two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
   B.   No person shall park a vehicle in any Municipal parking lot between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-
17-2006)
7-5-4: SCHOOL PARKING AREAS:
   A.   Definition: The term "parking areas", as used in this section, shall
mean the area or areas of land near or contiguous to schools for which there is
a contract between the school district and the Village for the regulation of
parking and traffic and used as a means of access to and egress from said
schools and for the parking of motor vehicles.
   B.   Subject To Village Traffic Regulations: Parking and traffic in parking
areas of any and all schools for which there is a contract between the school
district and village for the regulation of parking and traffic shall be subject
to the regulations set forth in this title.
   C.   Prohibited Parking Areas: No person shall park any vehicle or cause any
vehicle to stop or stand in any designated safety zone or fire lane, nor shall
any person park any vehicle in any designated loading zone except as provided
herein.
   D.   Restricted Parking Areas: No person shall park any vehicle or cause any
vehicle to stop or stand in any restricted parking area unless authorized by
the school that owns or operates the subject property. Parking in said
restricted areas shall be limited to vehicles registered with the school
authorities, faculty or administration vehicles and nonstudent vehicles on
official school business.
   E.   Signs Posted: The appropriate school shall be responsible for erecting
and maintaining in the school parking areas, signs posting speed limits and
designating safety zones, loading zones, fire lanes and restricted parking
areas. It shall be unlawful for any person to exceed said posted speed limits
or to violate the restrictions or prohibitions designated by said signs. (Ord.
2006-08, 4-17-2006)
7-5-5: PARKING AFTER SNOWFALL OR WEATHER EVENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause to be parked any vehicle
on any public street within the corporate limits of the village at any time: 1)
after a snowfall of two inches (2") or more has occurred; 2) at any time after
the national weather service has issued a winter storm warning, ice storm
warning, or other equivalent warning for weather conditions likely to generate
a need for snow removal or deicing operations, for areas including any portion
of the village of Pingree Grove; or 3) after the Village has issued a parking
ban notification via the Village website based upon an anticipated snow or ice
event or other weather condition or emergency causing a need to have street
clear of vehicles (after the effective date and time of such notification).
Such parking prohibition shall remain in effect until twenty-four (24) hours
after the snow or weather event has ended, said street has been cleared of all
snow and snow removal operations have been fully completed. The Village may
earlier terminate the parking prohibition by issuance of official notice in the
same format used to initiate a parking prohibition. It shall further be
unlawful to park any vehicle in such a fashion as to impair, impede or prevent
safe snow removal operations from public rights of way. The village may have
removed and towed away any car or other vehicle illegally parked which prevents
or obstructs snow removal from public streets in violation of this section.
(Ord. 2014-O-30, 12-1-2014; amd. Ord. 2019-O-08, 3-4-2019)
7-5-6: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES, COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any truck, truck- tractor, or
other vehicle equipped with or required to be equipped with a class F or higher
(i.e., class F-Z) license plate, or with a gross weight in excess of twelve
thousand (12,000) pounds, on any street or right of way within the corporate
limits of the village, except as provided in subsection G of this section.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any trailer or semitrailer
equipped with or required to be equipped with a class TC or higher (i.e., class
TC-TN) license plate, or with a gross weight in excess of five thousand (5,000)
pounds, on any street or right of way within the corporate limits of the
village, except as provided by subsection G of this section.
   C.   Commercial vehicles may be parked in areas other than streets and
public rights of way in areas zoned as single- or multi-family residential
(areas zoned with the prefix of R, such as R-1, R-2, or R-5, including areas
zoned partially as residential through the use of a planned unit development or
PUD) as follows:
      1.   If the vehicle does not exceed the standards of state of Illinois
license plate classification of "B" (8,000 pounds).
      2.   If the vehicle does not exceed the standards of state of Illinois
license plate classification of "D" (12,000 pounds) and is parked in a
completely enclosed building and a permit is obtained as provided herein.
      3.   If the vehicle does not exceed the standards of state of Illinois
license plate classification of "D" (12,000 pounds) and is used for essential
emergency twenty four (24) hour service including, but not limited to,
electrical, mechanical and plumbing contracting when the vehicle is also the
owner's/driver's principal means of transportation to and from his or her place
of employment and a permit is obtained as provided herein. (Ord. 2007-64, 6-4-
2007)
      4.   The permit will be issued by the building commissioner or his
designee if he determines that the vehicle and owner/driver comply with the
requirements of subsections C2 and C3 of this section. (Ord. 2007-64, 6-4-2007;
amd. 2011 Code)
      5.   The permit fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00), and the
permit will be valid as long as the owner/driver has the vehicle and continues
to meet the requirements of subsections C2 and C3 of this section.
      6.   Only one permit shall be issued per residence.
      7.   This prohibition does not apply to delivery vans or service vehicles
while delivering merchandise or while making service calls.
   D.   Commercial vehicles exceeding the state of Illinois license plate
classification of "N" (40,000 pounds) or trailers exceeding the state of
Illinois license plate classification of "TG" (20,000 pounds) shall not be
parked in any area of the village other than areas zoned as agricultural,
commercial or industrial, except as provided in subsection G of this section.
   E.   Construction equipment, including, but not limited to, vehicles
equipped with tracks in lieu of pneumatic or nonpneumatic tires, wheel loaders,
excavators, bulldozers or other similar equipment, and "implements of
husbandry" as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-130 shall not be
parked in any area of the village other than areas zoned as industrial or
agricultural, except when within completely enclosed buildings or when parked
on a lawfully parked trailer for a period of not more than seven (7) days at a
time.
   F.   No vehicle or trailer, other than a lawfully permitted "house trailer"
as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-128, shall be parked in any
area and utilized as temporary or permanent storage. A vehicle or trailer shall
be presumed to be in use for permanent or temporary storage if such vehicle is
used for storage and: 1) is rendered immobile through the removal of wheels or
tires, or through the placement of jacks, stands, blocks or other weight
transferring devices for a period of not less than two (2) days; or 2) remains
in place, without being moved, for a period of not less than seven (7) days.
   G.   The following vehicles are excepted from the requirements of
subsections A, B, C and D of this section during the conditions described
below. All such vehicles are nonetheless required to comply with all other
applicable ordinances and regulations and are required to be displaying
current, valid license plates.
      1.   Vehicles making local deliveries, for the time period required to
make such local delivery, with such time period not exceeding one hour.
      2.   Vehicles owned and operated by a unit of government including, but
not limited to, a municipality, county, state, school district or fire
protection district; provided, that such vehicle is parked in the course of
operation of such vehicle for a period of time necessary for the use of such
vehicle (e.g., overnight parking of such vehicles is prohibited unless the
vehicle is being presently utilized).
      3.   Commercial vehicles located in areas zoned commercial or industrial;
provided, that such vehicles are parked for a period of time not to exceed four
(4) hours, and are parked for the purpose of loading or off loading cargo,
personnel, or equipment. No overnight parking of such commercial vehicles on
any road or right of way within the corporate limits of the village shall be
permitted.
      4.   Vehicles stopped, impounded or detained by a law enforcement agency
for the period of time that they are stopped, impounded or detained.
   H.   Recreational Vehicles:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park any Recreational Vehicle on any Village
street where the vehicle would exceed the weight classifications described in
this chapter if the Recreational Vehicle were a commercial vehicle (i.e. under
subsection C(1), it shall be unlawful to park a Recreational Vehicle with a
gross weight of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds or more on any street or right
of way within the Village, and under subsection C(2), it shall be unlawful to
park a Recreational Vehicle comprised as a trailer with a gross weight of five
thousand (5,000) pounds or more on any street or right of way within the
Village.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to park any Recreational Vehicle on any Village
street for a period of more than forty eight (48) hours.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to park any Recreational Vehicle in any public
parking lot or public parking area for a period of more than eight (8) hours,
except with the permission of the Chief of Police. (Ord. 2007-64, 6-4-2007;
amd. Ord. 2019-O-38, 11-4-2019)
7-5-7: INOPERABLE VEHICLES AND TRAILERS:
Vehicles and trailers which do not display a current state license plate
registration are declared as inoperable motor vehicles and trailers. Inoperable
motor vehicles and trailers in the right of way are declared a nuisance and are
subject to fine and towing as provided herein. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006)
7-5-8: PRESUMPTION OF OWNER'S LIABILITY:
Presumption of Ownership: In the case of any parking citation or handicapped
parking violation issued by or on behalf of the Village, regardless of whether
such citation is issued in the form of a mail-in citation, or whether such
citation is prosecuted through an Administrative Hearings or through the
Circuit Court, the provisions of this Section
7-5-8 shall apply.
   A.   Citation Issued To Occupied Vehicle: In the case of any citation issued
to a vehicle which is occupied or claimed by a driver at the time of issuance
of the citation, the citation shall be issued and prosecuted in the name of the
driver or person claiming responsibility.
   B.   Citation Issued To Unoccupied Vehicle: In the case of any citation
issued to a vehicle which is unoccupied and unclaimed by a driver at the time
of issuance, the citation shall be issued to the registered owner of the
vehicle.
      1.   In all such cases, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the
registered owner of the vehicle is the party responsible and liable for the
vehicle’s parking, violation of Village or State code or ordinance, and
resulting fines, penalties and other liabilities.
      2.   For any parking citation issued to the owner of an unoccupied
vehicle, the Village may accept payment for such citation from any party or
person.
      3.   For any parking citation issued to an unoccupied vehicle, the only
party that shall be authorized or entitled to contest the parking citation and/
or to request a Circuit Court Hearing or Administrative Hearing (if applicable)
on such citation is the registered owner to whom such vehicle is registered.
      4.   In the event that the registered owner contests such a citation on
the basis that a driver or person other than the registered owner was operating
the vehicle and/or parked the vehicle unlawfully, the registered owner shall
nonetheless be liable for the parking, violation of Village or State code or
ordinance, and resulting fines, penalties and other liabilities unless:
         a.   The registered owner produces a police report and other
documentation acceptable to the party reviewing the citation, demonstrating
that at the time the citation was issued, the vehicle had been reported stolen;
or
         b.   The registered owner produces documentary or testimonial evidence
demonstrating that at the time the citation was issued, an individual,
discrete, expressly named person identified by the registered owner had actual
custody of the vehicle and had personally parked the vehicle and incurred the
parking citation.
      5.   It shall not be a defense to a citation issued to the registered
owner of an unoccupied vehicle that such vehicle was leased, rented, loaned or
otherwise utilized by a third party, in the absence of proof that the vehicle
was under such person’s actual direct operation at the time that the citation
was issued, as required above.(Ord. 2007-64, 6-4-2007; amd. Ord. 2019-O-38, 11-
4-2019)
7-5-9: PENALTIES FOR UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS
WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-1301.3(a) shall be fined, at minimum, the greater of
three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) or the maximum amount the village may by
ordinance impose as a fine under the provisions of the then current version of
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1301.3(c), as amended, in addition to any
costs or charges connected with the removal or storage of any motor vehicle
authorized under that section; provided, that the violation occurred in the
vicinity of a sign indicating the then current maximum fine imposed for such
violations.
   B.   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-1301.3(a) in an area not marked by a sign indicating the
then current maximum fine imposed for such violations shall be fined, at
minimum, the greater of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or the maximum
amount then required under the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-1301.3(c), as amended, in addition to any costs or charges connected with
the removal or storage of any motor vehicle authorized under that section.
   C.   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-1301.3(a-1) shall be fined, at minimum, the greater of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or the maximum amount then required under the
provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1301.3, as amended, in
addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage of any
motor vehicle authorized under that section. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006)
7-5-10: PENALTIES:
   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by the following penalties.
In the event any violation is enforced through a court or administrative
hearing proceeding, all such penalties shall be in addition to all court or
hearing costs.
 
                     Fine At 1 to 10 Days Fine At 11 to 20 Fine At 21 Or More
                                          Days             Days
Violation of
subsection
7-5-2C of this       $20.00               $40.00           $ 60.00
chapter (overnight
parking)
All other violations 40.00                80.00            120.00
 
(Ord. 2017-O-09, 5-1-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-O-17, 5-2-2022)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
7-6-1: Gas And Smoke Emissions
7-6-1: GAS AND SMOKE EMISSIONS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits a dense smoke or such
amount of smoke or fumes as may be hazardous to the public health. (Ord. 2006-
08, 4-17-2006)
ARTICLE A. SEASONAL AND PERMANENT VEHICLE MAXIMUM WEIGHT LIMITS
SECTION:
7-6A-1: Weight Limits Established
7-6A-2: Exceeding Weight Limits Prohibited
7-6A-3: Signs Posted
7-6A-4: Authority To Weigh Vehicles
7-6A-5: Special Permit Requirements
7-6A-6: Exemptions
7-6A-7: Penalty
7-6A-1: WEIGHT LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Permanent Gross Weight Limits: Weight limits applicable to all streets
within the village are established pursuant to section
7-1-1 of this title. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Temporary Gross Weight Limits: The village board may, by resolution,
place temporary seasonal gross weight operating limitations upon designated
highways in the village based upon foundation, base, materials, type of
construction, seasonal weather conditions, seasonal frost levels, groundwater
tables and general ground conditions, and other factors involved in the
construction and maintenance of streets and roadways. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006)
7-6A-2: EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any vehicle, whether passenger car or motor truck or
any other type of vehicle, having a gross weight of more than the applicable
seasonal or permanent maximum safe gross weight limit for any designated street
or roadway in the village, as hereinbefore determined, to come upon, traverse,
or travel over or upon any such designated street or roadway in the village.
(Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006)
7-6A-3: SIGNS POSTED:
The village shall cause seasonal and permanent gross weight limitations to be
posted in prominent places along streets of the village. Each so designated
street and roadway shall be restricted to vehicular traffic, including
passenger cars, motor trucks, and all other types of vehicles, which shall have
a gross weight not exceeding the applicable seasonal or permanent maximum safe
gross weight limit for such designated street or roadway and posted along the
street or roadway, as hereinbefore set forth. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006)
7-6A-4: AUTHORITY TO WEIGH VEHICLES:
Any police officer, or any authorized officer, having reason to believe that
the weight of a vehicle and load is unlawful shall require the driver to stop
and submit to a weighing of the vehicle. The vehicle shall be driven to the
nearest convenient state of Illinois certified public or private scale. (Ord.
2006-08, 4-17-2006)
7-6A-5: SPECIAL PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Authorized: The village may, upon application and on good cause
being shown therefor, issue a special permit authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of weight or load
exceeding the maximum specified in this article.
   B.   Application For Permit: The applicant shall furnish the following
information in the special permit application:
      1.   The name and address of the owner or lessee of the vehicle.
      2.   Applicant's name.
      3.   Type of permit request.
      4.   Whether it be for a single trip, round trip, or multiple routing.
      5.   The description and registration of the power unit.
      6.   Description of the object or vehicle to be moved.
      7.   The number of axles of the vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      8.   The axle weights of all single, tandem or series axles.
      9.   Gross weight of the vehicle.
      10.   The width, length and height of the vehicle and load; the specific
origin of the load; copies of all county and/or state permits must be attached
to the application prior to approval and issuance of a village special permit.
      11.   Requested routing over village streets and to specific location.
   C.   Fees: The owner or owner's agent shall submit an application fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for a single routing which shall be valid for seven
(7) calendar days; one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for a round trip, valid
for fourteen (14) calendar days; and one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for a
multiple routing, valid for a period not to exceed one hundred twenty (120)
calendar days. Permits are valid only for the dates specified on the permit and
for the specific vehicle, load and routing. No substitution of vehicle, load or
routing is permitted without express written permission.
   D.   Approval And Issuance Of Permit; Contents:
      1.   The village clerk is authorized to approve the application for
approved routes. Upon approval and payment of all required fees, the village
clerk shall issue a permit allowing passage of the overweight vehicles over
village streets. The permit shall be specific and contain:
         a.   Permit number.
         b.   The dates the permit is valid.
         c.   Whether the permit is for single, round trip or multiple routing.
         d.   The description of the object or vehicle to be moved.
         e.   Authorized gross weight, axle weights, width, length and height.
         f.   The authorized routing over village streets including the origin
and termination points within the village.
         g.   The fee paid.
         h.   The date and signature of the authorized issuing clerk.
      2.   In addition, the permit will specify any general conditions with
which the permittee must comply that are consistent and reasonable for the
protection of the general public and village streets.
   E.   Liability Of Permittee: The permittee assumes all responsibility for
injury or damage to persons or to the public streets or private property.
   F.   Possession Of Permit: The permit shall be carried in the vehicle to
which the permit applies at all times while operating on streets within the
village and shall be exhibited upon demand to any authorized enforcement
official of the village. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006)
7-6A-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The terms of this article do not apply to the following vehicles when engaged
and being used in the ordinary course of business:
   A.   Residential furniture moving vehicles.
   B.   Nonconstruction residential delivery vehicles.
   C.   Government owned vehicles.
   D.   Emergency vehicles.
   E.   Refuse removal vehicles.
   F.   Any vehicles being used for farming purposes and displaying a farm
class license plate.
   G.   All municipal or fire district vehicles. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006)
7-6A-7: PENALTY:
Any driver of any vehicle which is of a gross weight in excess of the
applicable seasonal or permanent maximum safe gross weight limit permitted upon
any street and roadway, who shall drive the vehicle over and upon or shall
cause such vehicle to come upon, traverse, or travel over or upon any such
street and roadway in the village, shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine
as provided for such violations in the Illinois Compiled Statutes. Every
separate entry upon any designated street or roadway by the driver of a vehicle
having a gross weight in excess of the maximum temporary seasonal or permanent
gross weight limit permitted upon such street or roadway shall be deemed to be
a separate offense. (Ord. 2006-08, 4-17-2006)
CHAPTER 7
OTHER VEHICLE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Definitions
7-7-2: Operation Of Certain Conveyances On Private Property
7-7-3: Operation Of Licensed Vehicles
7-7-4: Operation Of ATVs, Snowmobiles And Other Vehicles
7-7-5: Operation Of Skateboards, Scooters And Push Carts
7-7-6: Operation Of Bicycles
7-7-7: Operation Of Other Vehicles
7-7-8: Operation Of Golf Carts
7-7-9: Exemptions
7-7-10: Other Regulations
7-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
                                  Any motorized off highway device designed to
                                  travel primarily off highway, seventy inches
                                  (70") or less in width, traveling on three
                                  (3) or more tires, designed with a seat or
                                  saddle for operator use, and with handlebars
                                  or steering wheel for steering control,
                                  including, but not limited to, all-terrain
                                  vehicles, all-terrain tricycles, off road
                                  utility vehicles, side-by-side utility
                                  vehicles, go-carts, side-by-side recreational
                                  vehicles, mini-trucks and other similar
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV:       vehicles having an empty weight of four
                                  thousand (4,000) pounds or less, but not
                                  including implements of husbandry as defined
                                  in the Illinois Vehicle Code, and also not
                                  including Licensed Vehicles as defined
                                  herein. ATV shall also include off-road
                                  motorcycles, being any motorized device
                                  designed to travel primarily off highway or
                                  not legal for on highway use, equipped with
                                  two (2) or more tires and a saddle or seat
                                  for operator use and handlebars for steering
                                  control.
                                  Every device propelled by human power upon
                                  which any person may ride, having two tandem
                                  wheels except scooters and similar devices.
BICYCLE:                          Bicycle shall also include tricycles when
                                  powered solely by human power, and shall
                                  include Class 1, pedal-assisted electric
                                  bicycles limited to electric assist at speeds
                                  of twenty (20) mph or less.
                                  Any device intended for the ground-based
CONVEYANCE:                       transportation/movement of one or more
                                  persons, whether by human locomotion or by
                                  Motorized drive.
                                  A vehicle specifically designed and intended
                                  for the purposes of transporting one or more
                                  persons and their golf clubs or maintenance
                                  equipment while engaged in the playing of
GOLF CART:                        golf, supervising the play of golf, or
                                  maintaining the condition of the grounds on a
                                  public or private golf course, capable of a
                                  top speed of no more than fifteen (15) mph
                                  and powered by an electric motor or gasoline
                                  engine.
                                  Every vehicle designed and adapted
                                  exclusively for agricultural, horticultural,
                                  or livestock raising operations, including
                                  farm wagons, wagon trailers or like vehicles
                                  used in connection therewith, or for lifting
                                  or carrying an implement of husbandry
                                  provided that no farm wagon, wagon trailer or
IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY:           like vehicle having a gross weight of more
                                  than thirty six thousand (36,000) pounds. A
                                  vehicle shall be considered an Implement of
                                  Husbandry only when in use for such purposes
                                  or in transit between such uses (i.e. an
                                  Implement of Husbandry shall not be used for
                                  personal transportation or for recreational
                                  purposes).
                                  Any person sixteen years of age or greater
LICENSED DRIVER:                  possessing a valid, current driver's license
                                  in good standing, and in compliance with the
                                  requirements of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
                                  Any vehicle registered with the Illinois
                                  Secretary of State (or the Secretary of State
LICENSED VEHICLE:                 of any other foreign state) and capable of
                                  being lawfully operated on public roadways
                                  within the State of Illinois.
                                  Powered or driven in whole or in part by an
MOTORIZED:                        internal combustion engine, electrical motor
                                  or other power source to replace or supplant
                                  human locomotion.
                                  Any self-propelled vehicle, including a
                                  three-wheeled vehicle, designed for and used
MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR:             by a person with disabilities, that is
                                  incapable of a speed in excess of 8 miles per
                                  hour on level ground.
                                  Any other publicly owned area, including but
                                  not limited to parks, playgrounds, detention
OTHER PUBLIC AREA:                basins, wetlands, open spaces, gardens,
                                  ditches, fields, forests, pathways that are
                                  not improved with hard surfaces, sports
                                  facilities or similar areas.
                                  Other Conveyances not specifically defined or
                                  regulated herein. If a Conveyance is not
OTHER VEHICLES:                   specifically regulated by the provisions of
                                  this Chapter, it shall be deemed an Other
                                  Vehicle.
                                  A hard-surface pathway intended for use by
PATHWAY:                          mixed groups of pedestrians, bicyclists and
                                  other similar users, having a width of more
                                  than six (6) feet.
                                  Those paths or Roadway crossings which are
                                  then-currently on the list of permitted paths
                                  for operation of golf carts in the Village of
                                  Pingree Grove. permitted public golf cart
                                  paths shall include:
PERMITTED PUBLIC GOLF CART PATHS: A. The pathway located on the north side of
                                  Daniel Boulevard, from Pleasant Drive
                                  eastward to where Daniel Boulevard becomes a
                                  private roadway.
                                  B. The designated crossing of Daniel
                                  Boulevard, at Pleasant Drive.
                                  Any ATV, licensed vehicle, implement of
                                  husbandry, motorized wheelchair, golf cart,
REGULATED TRANSPORT:              bicycle, scooter or push cart, skateboard,
                                  snowmobile other vehicle or vehicle as
                                  defined herein, or any other conveyance
                                  regulated under this Chapter.
                                  That portion of a highway improved, designed
                                  or ordinarily used for vehicular travel,
                                  exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the
ROADWAY:                          event a highway includes two (2) or more
                                  separate roadways the term "roadway" as used
                                  herein shall refer to any such roadway
                                  separately but not to all such roadways
                                  collectively.
                                  Vehicles not otherwise defined herein, having
                                  between two (2) and four (4) wheels and an
SCOOTERS AND PUSH CARTS:          empty weight of not more than forty (40)
                                  pounds, powered solely by human locomotion,
                                  or powered by electric motors capable of not
                                  more than fifteen (15) mph.
                                  A hard-surface pathway six (6) feet or less
                                  in width, constructed for the purpose of
SIDEWALK:                         permitting pedestrians, bicyclists and other
                                  similar users to travel without being in the
                                  Roadway.
                                  Vehicles consisting of a flat or nearly flat
                                  deck with one or more wheels or sets of
SKATEBOARDS:                      wheels, powered by human locomotion and
                                  steered by leaning or pointing one's body, or
                                  other similar devices commonly referred to as
                                  skateboards.
                                  Any motorized off highway device designed to
                                  travel primarily off highway, equipped with
                                  one or more tracks and skis for the purpose
SNOWMOBILE:                       of enabling said device to traverse snow or
                                  ice including, but not limited to,
                                  snowmobiles, snow machines, snow cats, or
                                  other similar devices.
                                  Any device defined as a vehicle in the
VEHICLE:                          Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled
                                  Statutes 5/1-217 (or a successor section
                                  therein).
                                  Any human-propelled vehicle, including a
WHEELCHAIR:                       three-wheeled vehicle, designed for and used
                                  by a person with disabilities. (Ord. 2019-O-
                                  36, 11-4-2019)
 
7-7-2: OPERATION OF CERTAIN CONVEYANCES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate any ATV, implement of husbandry, golf
cart, licensed vehicle or snowmobile on private property, except with the
consent of the property owner.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to operate any regulated transport on private
property after being advised by the owner of such property that operation is
prohibited after notice, or in violation of any posted regulations regarding
such operation.
   C.   Property owners may prohibit the operation of certain vehicles or
certain types of vehicles by the posting of appropriate and legible signs on
their property (e.g. "Operation of Skateboards Prohibited"), and it shall be
unlawful to operate any conveyance in violation of such sign age. (Ord. 2019-O-
36, 11-4-2019)
7-7-3: OPERATION OF LICENSED VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be lawful to operate licensed vehicles on public roadways in
compliance with the applicable provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to operate licensed vehicles on any public
sidewalk, public pathway or other public area.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to operate licensed vehicles on any private
property after being advised by the owner of such property that operation is
prohibited after notice, or in violation of any posted regulations regarding
such operation. (Ord. 2019-O-36, 11-4-2019)
7-7-4: OPERATION OF ATVS, SNOWMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful to operate ATVs, snowmobiles and other vehicles at any
location in the Village, except upon private property and with the express,
advance consent of the owner of such property. (Ord. 2019-O-36, 11-4-2019)
7-7-5: OPERATION OF SKATEBOARDS, SCOOTERS AND PUSH CARTS:
   A.   It shall be lawful to operate skateboards, scooters and push carts on
public sidewalks and public pathways, provided that all such riders/operators
shall yield to pedestrian traffic.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to operate skateboards, scooters and push carts on
public roadways.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to operate skateboards, scooters and push carts in
other public areas, except for areas specifically designed for such use (e.g.
parks designed for use by skateboards). (Ord. 2019-O-36, 11-4-2019)
7-7-6: OPERATION OF BICYCLES:
   A.   It shall be lawful to operate bicycles on public sidewalks and public
pathways, provided that all such riders/operators shall yield to pedestrian
traffic.
   B.   It shall be lawful to operate bicycles on public roadways, provided
that all such operation complies with the minimum requirements of the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to operate bicycles in other public areas where
the operation of the bicycle results in violation of any other law or
ordinance, or results in damage to the other public area where the bicycle is
being operated by virtue of the generation of ruts or other property damage.
   D.   Where bicycles are operated at night, they must comply with all
Illinois Vehicle Code requirements relating to operation at night with lights
and reflectors. (Ord. 2019-O-36, 11-4-2019)
7-7-7: OPERATION OF OTHER VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate any other vehicle on public sidewalks,
public pathways, public roadways or other public areas.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to operate any other vehicle on private property,
except with the consent of the property owner. (Ord. 2019-O-36, 11-4-2019)
7-7-8: OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate golf carts at any location in the
Village, except upon private property and with the express, advance consent of
the owner of such property, or as provided in subsection (B) or (C) below.
   B.   It shall be lawful to operate golf carts on private roadways owned and
maintained by a private homeowners' association (HOA), where permitted under
the rules and regulations of that HOA. Such golf carts shall comply with the
following regulations:
      1.   Golf carts shall only be operated by licensed drivers.
      2.   Golf carts may be operated in any area where permitted under the HOA
regulations, including but not limited to private roadways, private sidewalks
or private pathways. It shall be unlawful to operate golf carts in areas where
their operation is prohibited.
      3.   Golf carts shall not be operated between the hours of dusk and dawn,
except where equipped with front and rear reflectors, as well as headlights and
taillights which are illuminated when in operation between dusk and dawn, and
which are capable of being seen from not less than five hundred (500) feet in
distance.
      4.   Golf carts shall be registered with the applicable HOA, and shall
have a clearly visible and prominently displayed, HOA-issued registration
number. Any HOA providing such registration shall annually provide a list of
registered golf carts to the Village of Pingree Grove Police Department, by May
1 of each year. Such list shall be updated from time to time as reasonably
required to maintain a current record of registration with the Police
Department.
      5.   Golf carts shall yield to vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   C.   Any golf cart registered for operation in accordance with subsection
(B)(4) above may be operated on permitted public golf cart paths, provided that
such operation is in accordance with the requirements of subsection (B)(1),
(3), (4) and (5) above. All golf carts shall yield to all vehicular traffic on
any roadway, where such golf cart intends to cross the roadway using a
permitted public golf cart path.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to operate golf carts on any other public roadway
(except within an approved crossing), or other public area. (Ord. 2019-O-36,
11-4-2019)
7-7-9: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Nothing contained herein shall restrict or limit the lawful operation
of a wheelchair or motorized wheelchair within the Village. The operator of a
wheelchair or motorized wheelchair shall be classified as a pedestrian and
shall be required to comply with all applicable rules and regulations under
Village Code or the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   B.   Nothing contained herein shall restrict or regulate the operation of
any vehicle owned or operated by any unit of government when in the performance
of official governmental operations. (Ord. 2019-O-36, 11-4-2019)
7-7-10: OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Nothing contained herein shall excuse non-compliance with any other
applicable code, ordinance, regulation, statute or law, including but not
limited to regulations on vehicle size or weight, operation of vehicles while
under the influence of drugs, alcohol or any intoxicant, or other applicable
requirements.
   B.   No conveyance shall be operated on any public sidewalk, public pathway
or within any other public area at a speed in excess of fifteen (15) mph. (Ord.
2019-O-36, 11-4-2019)
CHAPTER 8
ABANDONED, DERELICT VEHICLES 1
SECTION:
7-8-1: Legislative Findings And Determinations
7-8-2: Definitions
7-8-3: Abandonment Of Vehicle Or Retention Of Derelict Vehicle Prohibited
7-8-4: Presumptions
7-8-5: Removal Of Vehicles; Costs
7-8-6: Records Of Tows
7-8-7: Records Searches For Owner
7-8-8: Reclamation Of Vehicle
7-8-9: Sale Of Vehicle
7-8-10: Older Vehicles
7-8-11: Alternate Procedures
7-8-12: Records Kept
7-8-13: Disposition Of Proceeds
7-8-14: Nonliability Of Village Or Towing Service
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  5-2-1B of this code.
7-8-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS:
The village board members, in keeping with the policy of the Illinois general
assembly, as found in section 5/4-301 of the Illinois vehicle code, finds and
determines that: abandoned and derelict vehicles constitute a safety hazard and
a public nuisance; are detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the
general public by harboring disease, providing breeding places for vermin,
inviting plundering, creating fire hazards and presenting physical dangers to
children and others; produce scenic blights which degrade the environment and
adversely affect land values and the proper maintenance and continuing
development of the state of Illinois and all of its subdivisions; represent a
resource out of place and an energy loss to the Illinois economy and require
state and local governmental attention, in conjunction with any federal
governmental attention, in order to assure the expeditious removal and
recycling of these abandoned and derelict vehicles. (Ord. 2009-22, 7-6-2009)
7-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED, DERELICT OR INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any vehicle which either satisfies
the definition of any of the terms in this section, the then current provisions
of the Illinois vehicle code or any vehicle:
   A.   Which is located on private property not subject to a traffic ordinance
enforcement agreement with the village of Pingree Grove and which is incapable
of being moved under its own power, has one or more flat tires, lacks current
license plates and registration, or has parts removed from the vehicle so as to
render it incapable of being moved under its own power or unlawful to operate;
   B.   Which is located on a public street or on private property subject to a
traffic ordinance enforcement agreement with the village of Pingree Grove and
which is incapable of being moved under its own power, has one or more flat
tires, lacks current license plates and registration, or has parts removed from
the vehicle so as to render it incapable of being moved under its own power or
unlawful to operate; or
   C.   In the case of a nonmotorized vehicle, any nonmotorized vehicle,
including, but not limited to, a trailer, buggy or wagon, which is partially
disassembled, has its wheels or tires removed or flattened, or is placed on
blocks or jack stands so as to render it immobile or inoperable (other than a
properly permitted mobile home or trailer).
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power, other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, bicycle, trailer, motorcycle, motor driven
cycle, tractor, buggy and wagon. (Ord. 2009-22, 7-6-2009)
7-8-3: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLE OR RETENTION OF DERELICT VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or any part thereof or the retention of a
derelict vehicle anywhere in the village, in view of the general public, is
unlawful except on the property of the owner in a lawfully constructed and
completely enclosed permanent building or other lawfully constructed and
completely enclosed permanent structure. Removal of the abandoned or derelict
vehicle or any part thereof may be authorized by order of the chief of police
after expiration of seven (7) days from the date on which notice of the
violation is mailed or posted, as provided herein. (Ord. 2009-22, 7-6-2009)
7-8-4: PRESUMPTIONS:
   A.   Abandonment Of Vehicle: The person to whom last was issued the
certificate of title to the vehicle by the secretary of state is presumed to be
the person to abandon that vehicle.
   B.   Derelict Vehicle On Private Property: Unless said person notifies the
police department that a derelict vehicle has been unlawfully placed upon his
or her property, the person who owns the private property on which a derelict
vehicle is retained or who occupies the private property on which the derelict
vehicle is retained, or both, is presumed to be the person responsible for
disposing of the vehicle in a safe and timely manner. (Ord. 2009-22, 7-6-2009)
7-8-5: REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; COSTS:
   A.   Notice To Police Of Abandoned Or Derelict Vehicle; Removal:
      1.   When an abandoned, derelict, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle
or other vehicle comes into the temporary possession of or custody of a person
in this state who is not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall
immediately notify the police department when the vehicle is within the
corporate limits of the village.
      2.   Upon receipt of such notification, the chief of police shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle.
      3.   The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its
contents, maintain a record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the
owner, or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it
is disposed of as provided by this chapter.
   B.   Removal From Public Ways:
      1.   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a public right
of way in the village ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the chief of police or his or her designee(s).
      2.   When an abandoned, derelict, unattended, wrecked, burned or
partially dismantled motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic
hazard because of its position in relation to the highway or its physical
appearance or presence is causing the impeding of traffic, a towing service may
be authorized to remove the vehicle by order of the chief of police or his or
her designee(s).
   C.   Costs Of Removal: When a vehicle is removed from either public or
private property, as authorized by order of the chief of police or his or her
designee(s), the owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
(Ord. 2009-22, 7-6-2009)
7-8-6: RECORDS OF TOWS:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
police department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of the manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow. (Ord. 2009-
22, 7-6-2009)
7-8-7: RECORDS SEARCHES FOR OWNER:
   A.   When the police department does not know the identity of the registered
owner or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor vehicle
records of the state of Illinois to be searched by a directed communication to
the secretary of state for the purpose of obtaining the required ownership
information.
   B.   The police department shall cause the stolen vehicle files of the
Illinois state police to be searched by a directed communication to the
Illinois state police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the
Illinois state police files are searched with negative results, the information
contained in the national crime information center (NCIC) files will be
searched by the Illinois state police. The information determined from these
records searches will be used by the police department in sending a
notification by certified mail to the owner or legally entitled person advising
where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth
public sale information.
   C.   The police department may use such other databases or information
sources as may be reasonably available to the police department from time to
time. Failure of the police department to use one or more of the specified
information sources shall not constitute a failure of the police department to
adhere to its obligations under this chapter; provided, that the police
department undertakes a reasonable effort to determine the identity of the
owner of any derelict or potentially stolen motor vehicle. The village and
police department expressly disclaim any liability or responsibility for the
accurate identification of the owner of any such vehicle. (Ord. 2009-22, 7-6-
2009)
   D.   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of this state or from the registration files of a foreign
state, if applicable, the police department shall notify the Illinois state
police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the
Illinois state police will be immediately forwarded to the village police
department for notification of the owner. (Ord. 2009-22, 7-6-2009; amd. 2011
Code)
7-8-8: RECLAMATION OF VEHICLE:
Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the police department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. (Ord.
2009-22, 7-6-2009)
7-8-9: SALE OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Owner Known:
      1.   Sale Authorized: Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed
motor vehicle or other vehicle, seven (7) years of age or newer, remains
unclaimed by the registered owner or other person legally entitled to its
possession for a period of thirty (30) days after notice has been given as
provided herein, the village police department shall cause it to be sold at
public sale to the highest bidder. (Ord. 2009-22, 7-6-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   Notices:
         a.   Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a
conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded.
         b.   At least ten (10) days prior to the sale, the police department
shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by certified
mail to the registered owner or other person known by the police department and
towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle, along
with a notice to the address at which the vehicle was found (if found on
private property). Such notice shall contain a complete description of the
vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person
to reclaim the vehicle.
         c.   In those instances where the certified notification specified
herein has been returned by the postal authorities to the police department due
to the addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from
the registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified
notice will not be required.
   B.   Owner Unknown: When the identity of the registered owner or other
person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed
vehicle of seven (7) years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means
provided in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or
disposed of in the manner authorized by this chapter without notice to the
registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle. (Ord. 2009-22, 7-6-2009)
7-8-10: OLDER VEHICLES:
   A.   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is
impounded as specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining ownership, the
contacting of the registered owner by the U.S. mail, public service or in
person, for a determination of disposition, and an examination of the Illinois
state police stolen motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information.
   B.   At the expiration of the ten (10) day period, without the benefit of
disposition information being received from the registered owner, the chief of
police will authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only. (Ord. 2009-22,
7-6-2009)
7-8-11: ALTERNATE PROCEDURES:
The chief of police may, based on the condition, appearance, or other facts
deemed relevant by him or her, elect to utilize either the procedure designated
by section
7-8-9 or
7-8-10 of this chapter, without regard to the age of the vehicle, and shall be
empowered to determine which procedure to utilize in his or her sole
discretion. (Ord. 2009-22, 7-6-2009)
7-8-12: RECORDS KEPT:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the police department
is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled person, or when
the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
chapter, a record of the transaction shall be maintained by the police
department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
(Ord. 2009-22, 7-6-2009)
7-8-13: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS:
When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the village is authorized
to be towed away by the chief of police and disposed of as set forth in this
chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after the deduction of
towing, storage and processing charges, shall be deposited in the village
treasury for village use. (Ord. 2009-22, 7-6-2009)
7-8-14: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE OR TOWING SERVICE:
Any police officer, village employee, or towing service owner or operator, or
employee thereof, shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages,
judgments or costs of any kind or to any other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle when the vehicle was processed
and sold or disposed of as provided by this chapter. (Ord. 2009-22, 7-6-2009)
CHAPTER 9
IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-9-1: Definitions
7-9-2: Administrative Charge And Penalty
7-9-3: Notice Of Impoundment
7-9-4: Hearing Procedures
7-9-5: Determination By Hearing Officer
7-9-6: Appeal
7-9-7: Reclaiming Impounded Motor Vehicles
7-9-8: Enhanced DUI Enforcement Fund
7-9-9: Implementation
7-9-10: Towing Or Impoundment Authorized
7-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
Wherever the following words or phrases are used in this chapter, they shall,
for purposes of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them
in this section, except when the context otherwise indicates:
 
                        The seizure, towing, and storage of a motor vehicle by
IMPOUND OR IMPOUNDMENT: or on behalf of the police department pursuant to this
                        chapter.
LESSEE:                 A person or persons who leases a vehicle under a
                        consumer lease.
LIENHOLDER OF RECORD:   A party that holds a lien on a vehicle listed on a
                        certificate of title for a vehicle.
OWNER:                  The recorded titleholder(s) of a motor vehicle. (Ord.
                        2011-22, 8-1-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-O-18, 10-2-2023)
 
7-9-2: ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGE AND PENALTY:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, in any circumstance
in which violations of this code, the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq., or the Illinois Compiled Statutes authorize
or require the police department to impound a motor vehicle, or in any other
circumstance under which the police department may impound a motor vehicle
pursuant to this section, the chief of police or his or her designee is
authorized and directed to impound the motor vehicle in a location determined
by the chief of police or his or her designee. The village may order the towing
of any vehicle where authorized under the then current version of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.7 (or any successor statute). At the time of
approval of this chapter, the list of eligible offenses includes:
Violation or Offense Statute Reference
Violation or Offense                                                Statute
                                                                    Reference
    Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or    720 ILCS
1.  the attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may 36-1
    be seized and forfeited.
    Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs,  625 ILCS 5/
2.  an intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination       11-501
    thereof.
    Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
3.  the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the cannabis   
    control act.
    Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
4.  the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois   
    controlled substances act.
5.  Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in  
    the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of:
      Unlawful use of weapons                                   720 ILCS 5/
                                                                    24-1
      Reckless discharge of a firearm                           720 ILCS 5/
                                                                    24-1.5
      Unlawful possession of firearms/ammunition                720 ILCS 5/
                                                                    24-3.1
    Driving while a driver's license, permit or privilege is        625 ILCS 5/
6.  suspended or revoked (unless suspended for an unpaid parking or 6-303
    moving violation or failure to comply with emission testing).
    Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting,
7.  possessing, or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a    
    controlled substance, as defined by the cannabis control act or
    the Illinois controlled substances act.
    Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's    625 ILCS 5/
8.  license, provided that said license is one year or more past    6-101
    expiration.
    Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been
9   issued a driver's license or permit, or operating a motor       625 ILCS 5/
    vehicle without ever having been issued a driver's license or   6-101
    permit due to a person's age.
    Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
10. warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for       
    failing to answer charges that the driver violated:
      License or permit                                         625 ILCS 5/
                                                                    6-101
      Driving while license suspended or revoked                625 ILCS 5/
                                                                    6-303
      Driving under the influence                               625 ILCS 5/
                                                                    11-501
    Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
11. the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 or  
    16A of the Illinois criminal code of 1961.
    Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
12. the attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense   
    in violation of the Illinois criminal code of 1961.
    Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of section 11-
13. 503 of this code:                                                
    (A)   While the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
    (B)   In a manner that interferes with a funeral procession.
 
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the police department
may not impose an administrative fee under this Chapter if the motor vehicle
was stolen or hijacked at the time of the relevant violation and the theft or
hijacking was reported to the appropriate law enforcement agency in a timely
manner after the theft or hijacking was discovered or reasonably should have
been discovered.
   C.   The police department shall not release, or direct any person to
release, any vehicle impounded under this section to any person except to the
owner, lessee, lienholder of record or person duly authorized to accept
possession of the motor vehicle.
   D.   Except for motor vehicles reported stolen or hijacked pursuant to
subsection B of this section, the owner of an impounded motor vehicle shall be
civilly liable to the village for an administrative charge and penalty in the
amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), and will be responsible
for any applicable towing and storage fees. The amount of the administrative
charge and penalty imposed pursuant to this section shall constitute a debt due
and owing to the village. (Ord. 2012-O-29, 12-3-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-O-18, 10-
2-2023)
7-9-3: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   At the time of impoundment, the police department shall provide a
written impound notice to the owner, lessee, or person identifying himself or
herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to be
in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense pursuant to this
section. An impound notice shall be delivered to the owner, or lessee, and any
lienholder of record by personal service or by United States first class mail
to the address indicated on the motor vehicle's registration or certificate of
title within ten (10) days after impoundment of the motor vehicle. The impound
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The description of the motor vehicle, including year, make, model,
registration and vehicle identification number (VIN);
      2.   The present location of the motor vehicle;
      3.   The reason(s) for the impoundment of the motor vehicle;
      4.   The date, time and location of the administrative hearing; and
      5.   The opportunity for the owner, lessee, or lienholder of record to
reclaim the motor vehicle, and the consequences of the failure to reclaim the
motor vehicle.
   B.   The failure or refusal by the owner, lessee, or lienholder of record
to: 1) acknowledge receipt of an impound notice delivered by first class mail
to the address indicated on the motor vehicle's registration or title, or 2) to
accept personal service of the impound notice, shall be deemed a waiver of any
further notice regarding the impoundment of the motor vehicle.
   C.   The hearing before the administrative hearing officer shall also be
conducted within forty five (45) days of the date on which the notice of
impoundment was mailed or personally served. However, the owner, lessee, or
lienholder of record may also request, in writing, an emergency hearing before
the Police Chief or designee. If the owner lessee, or lienholder of record
requests such an emergency hearing, it shall be conducted during the Village's
normal business hours within five (5) business days of receipt of the request.
The sole purpose of the hearing shall be to determine whether the vehicle
should be released without posting an administrative bond, prior to the final
hearing
   D.   If the owner, lessee, or lienholder of record fails to appear at the
scheduled date and time of the hearing, the hearing officer shall enter a
default judgment in favor of the Village. The Village incorporates by reference
the notice requirements of 625 ILCS 5/11-208.7. (Ord. 2011-22, 8-1-2011; amd.
Ord. 2023-O-18, 10-2-2023) before the administrative hearing officer.
7-9-4: HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Other than emergency hearings conducted under Section
7-9-3(C), above, a qualified administrative hearing officer will serve as
hearing officer and conduct the hearing.
   B.   The hearing will be audio recorded.
   C.   All interested persons will have a reasonable opportunity to be heard
at the hearing. The formal rules of evidence shall not apply and hearsay
evidence shall be admissible. Any sworn or affirmed report, citation or ticket
shall be admissible evidence if it:
      1.   Is prepared in the performance of a police officer's duties;
      2.   Sufficiently describes the circumstances leading to the impoundment
of the motor vehicle; and
      3.   Is not rebutted by clear and convincing evidence to the contrary.
   D.   After reviewing all relevant evidence presented at the hearing, the
hearing officer shall determine pursuant to section
7-9-5 of this chapter, based upon a preponderance of the evidence, whether the
administrative fee should be imposed. (Ord. 2011-22, 8-1-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-
O-02, 1-20-2020; Ord. 2023-O-18, 10-2-2023)
7-9-5: DETERMINATION BY HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   Written Order: After a hearing pursuant to this chapter, the hearing
officer shall enter a written order determining whether the administrative fee
should be imposed.
   B.   Fee Ordered:
      1.   If the hearing officer determines that the administrative fee should
be imposed, the written order shall: a) state that determination, and, b)
assess the administrative charges and penalties due and owing by the owner to
the village (which may include a sum supplemental to the administrative fee, as
costs of hearing). The owner shall also be liable for any towing or impound
fees incurred.
      2.   In making a determination pursuant to this section, the hearing
officer may, in his or her discretion, reduce the administrative charge or
penalty established in this chapter (but not the applicable towing and storage
fees) upon determining that the owner incurred the administrative charge or
penalty for reasons not the fault of the owner. Any reduction by the hearing
officer of the amount of the administrative charge or penalty must be
specifically set forth in the hearing officer's written order.
      3.   Any order imposing a fee shall be entered pursuant to the
requirements of this section, and shall incorporate this section by reference
(whether expressly stated or not). Such order shall be deemed a finding that
the imposition of the administrative fee is appropriate.
   C.   Other Finding: If the hearing officer does not uphold the imposition of
an administrative fee, the written order of the hearing officer shall:
      1.   If the motor vehicle has been released to the owner, lessee, or
lienholder of record direct the village to refund any administrative charges
prepaid, including the return of any cash bond posted pursuant to section
7-9-7 of this chapter. The owner, lessee, or lienholder of record shall
nonetheless remain liable for any towing or impound fees due.
      2.   If the motor vehicle is still impounded at the time of the hearing:
         a.   Direct the towing agent, upon presentation of the hearing
officer's written order and evidence of his or her identity and right to
possession of the motor vehicle, to release the motor vehicle after payment of
any towing or storage charges; and
         b.   Direct the village to refund any administrative charges prepaid,
including the return of any cash bond posted under section
7-9-7 of this chapter.
   D.   Reimbursement: Whenever the hearing officer enters a written order
determining that the owner, lessee, or lienholder of record is entitled to
reimbursement by the village for administrative charges previously paid, the
hearing officer shall transmit a copy of the written order to the village
finance director or designee, who shall remit payment of the money due within
thirty five (35) days after the decision of the hearing officer, unless the
village seeks administrative review of the hearing officer's determination
pursuant to section
7-9-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-22, 8-1-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-02, 1-20-2020;
Ord. 2023-O-18, 10-2-2023)
7-9-6: APPEAL:
Any final decision by the hearing officer that an administrative fee should be
imposed shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review
and shall be subject to review under the Illinois administrative review law.
(Ord. 2011-22, 8-1-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-02, 1-20-2020)
7-9-7: RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   Without Hearing: If an owner, lessee, or lienholder of record desires
to take possession and reclaim an impounded motor vehicle without a hearing,
the owner, lessee, or lienholder of record may take possession of the motor
vehicle only after the following:
      1.   Furnishes evidence to the towing agent of his or her identity and
right to possess the motor vehicle;
      2.   Pays the administrative charge and penalty set forth in this chapter
and delivers a signed receipt from the village finance director or his or her
designee for such payment to the towing agent;
      3.   Pays the towing agent for all towing and storage costs for the motor
vehicle; and,
      4.   Signs and delivers to the police department a waiver of the right to
a hearing on the impoundment of the motor vehicle.
   B.   Before Hearing: If an owner, lessee, or lienholder of record desires to
take possession and reclaim the impounded motor vehicle prior to the hearing,
the owner, lessee, or lienholder of record may take possession of the motor
vehicle only after he or she:
      1.   Furnishes evidence of his or her identity and his or her right to
possession of the motor vehicle to the police department; and
      2.   Posts a cash bond with the village finance director or his or her
designee, in the amount of the administrative charge and penalty prescribed in
this chapter, and pays all towing and storage costs for the motor vehicle, to
assure the payment of those fees if the hearing officer ultimately determines
that the administrative fee should be imposed.
   C.   After Hearing:
      1.   Fee Ordered: If the hearing officer conducts a hearing and
determines that an administrative fee should be imposed relating to the
impoundment of the motor vehicle:
         a.   lf the owner, lessee, or lienholder of record has previously
elected to deposit a cash bond with the village and reclaim the motor vehicle
as provided in this section, such cash bond shall immediately be forfeited to
the village; or,
         b.   If the owner, lessee, or lienholder of record elected not to post
a cash bond and the motor vehicle remains impounded, then the owner, lessee, or
lienholder of record may take possession of the motor vehicle only after he or
she:
            (1)   Furnishes evidence of his or her identity and his or her
right to possess the motor vehicle to the towing agent; and
            (2)   Pays the administrative charge, penalties, and towing and
storage fees for the motor vehicle as determined by the hearing officer, and
delivers a signed receipt to the towing agent from the village finance director
or his or her designee demonstrating payment of the administrative charges and
penalties.
      2.   Other Finding: If the hearing officer issues any other order, the
hearing officer shall order that:
         a.   The motor vehicle be immediately released to the owner, lessee,
or lienholder of record without payment of the administrative fee, but after
payment of any towing or storage fees upon furnishing of evidence to the towing
agent of his or her identity and right to possess the motor vehicle; and
         b.   The village finance director or designee refund any
administrative charges or penalties paid by the owner, lessee, or lienholder of
record for the impoundment of the motor vehicle, including the return of any
cash bond posted under this section.
   D.   Any vehicle not retrieved from the towing facility within thirty five
(35) days after the hearing officer issues a final decision shall be subject to
disposal as an abandoned vehicle pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-208.7(h). (Ord.
2011-22, 8-1-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-02, 1-20-2020; Ord. 2023-O-18, 10-2-2023)
7-9-8: ENHANCED DUI ENFORCEMENT FUND:
The amounts received as administrative charges pursuant to this chapter shall
be set aside in a separate police department fund to be used at the direction
of the chief of police for the purpose of purchasing equipment, training, and
overtime salaries for officers incurred as a result of enhanced DUI
enforcement. (Ord. 2011-22, 8-1-2011)
7-9-9: IMPLEMENTATION:
From time to time, the chief of police shall promulgate the necessary notices,
forms, and rules as may be required for the implementation of the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 2011-22, 8-1-2011)
7-9-10: TOWING OR IMPOUNDMENT AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Authorization: The provisions of this section shall authorize the
towing and impounding of vehicles, within the village. This section shall not
impair the authority provided under any other applicable village ordinance or
regulation, but rather shall be read to provide additional authority to
authorized village employees, to have vehicles towed and impounded.
   B.   Towing And Impounding Authorized: Village police officers, code
enforcement officers and their authorized designees shall be authorized to have
a vehicle towed and impounded as authorized under any other applicable village
ordinance or regulation, and also under the following conditions:
      1.   A vehicle is involved in a traffic stop or is otherwise stopped
during or as a component of the investigation of a potential traffic or
criminal violation, which investigation results in the arrest of the driver of
the vehicle.
      2.   A vehicle is illegally parked upon or is illegally trespassing upon
property owned by the village, other than a roadway or public right of way.
      3.   A vehicle is reasonably believed to have been the scene of a crime
or is reasonably believed to have or contain evidence of a crime or other
unlawful activity.
      4.   A vehicle is subject to being seized or towed under any applicable
federal, state or local ordinance, statute, code or regulation, including, but
not limited to, vehicles eligible for towing under:
         a.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1302;
         b.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.7;
         c.   725 Illinois Compiled Statutes 150/1;
         d.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-1;
         e.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-203.
      5.   A vehicle is parked in a location that presents an immediate and
unwarranted threat to public health, welfare or safety, including, but not
limited to:
         a.   Vehicles parked in front of fire hydrants, fire doors, fire
lanes, or other similar locations.
         b.   Vehicles parked in a location so as to block ingress or egress
from any village municipal facilities or parking lot.
         c.   Vehicles parked in a location so as to block ingress or egress
from any other public entity's property, including, but not limited to, the
Pingree Grove Fire Protection District.
         d.   Vehicles parked in a location so as to block ingress or egress
from any hospital, urgent care center or other emergency medical facility.
         e.   Vehicles parked within a roadway (other than within a designated
parking zone).
         f.   Vehicles on or in dangerously close proximity to railroad tracks.
         g.   Vehicles that are on or in close proximity to a public right of
way, that have become immobilized due to mechanical difficulty, weather
conditions, or for any other cause.
         h.   Vehicles in such other location that is determined, by the
village agent or employee ordering the towing, to be unsafe or unlawful, in
their absolute and sole discretion.
      7.   A vehicle is illegally parked on private property for which the
village has a valid traffic enforcement agreement that permits towing without
property owner notification or consent, or is illegally parked on private
property and the property owner consents to the tow.
   C.   Towing Not Required: In the event that a vehicle is eligible to be
towed and the village officer or agent involved determines that the vehicle
does not require towing (e.g., a vehicle involved in a traffic stop resulting
in the driver being arrested, where the vehicle is either lawfully parked or
capable of being lawfully driven by another, properly licensed occupant in the
vehicle), the village officer or agent may elect to not have the vehicle towed
or impounded, or may elect to have the vehicle towed and impounded, in his or
her absolute and sole discretion.
   D.   Warrant Or Other Authority: In the event a police officer believes that
a vehicle contains evidence of a crime or other unlawful activity but the
officer lacks legal authority to seize the vehicle and have it towed, the
officer shall be authorized to promptly seek and secure a search warrant or
other similar authority to authorize the seizure, towing and/or search of the
vehicle.
   E.   Towing And Impoundment: Any village agent or employee authorized to
order the towing of a vehicle under this section shall utilize the tow rotation
procedures established by the chief of police. The chief shall be authorized to
establish a towing rotation, qualifications for participating towing vendors,
and any towing related regulations for use by village personnel. Any vehicle
towed or impounded under this section shall be retained by the party towing the
vehicle until: 1) all outstanding fines, penalties, fees, interest, or other
charges whatsoever have been paid to the village and the party towing the
vehicle, in full; 2) the vehicle is ordered to be released from impound by an
administrative hearing officer; 3) the vehicle is ordered to be released from
impound by a court having jurisdiction over the matter; or 4) the vehicle is
ordered to be released from impound by the village administrator, police chief,
or their designee. Any time a vehicle is towed, the village may require that
such vehicle be towed to the village police station or another location
approved by the chief of police. Any company towing a vehicle, where the tow is
initiated by the village and/or where a vehicle is seized by the village, shall
comply with the village's requirements and shall deposit the vehicle where
instructed, at no additional charge. The owner of the vehicle shall still
remain liable for any costs incurred in towing. The chief of police shall be
authorized to set storage fees for any vehicle retained at the impound lot,
provided that such fees shall only be assessed after a vehicle is available for
pick up by the owner of said vehicle (i.e., no longer needed for evidentiary
purposes). The owner of said vehicle shall be responsible for payment of all
towing and storage charges prior to release of the vehicle.
   F.   Towing Policy: The chief of police is and shall be authorized to
approve changes, amendments or modifications to the village's official towing
policy from time to time, without requiring approval of the village board or
amendment of this chapter. Use of a "Denver boot" or other vehicle
immobilization device, and use of towing and impoundment of vehicles is and
shall be authorized in accordance with the requirements of the then current
towing policies established by the chief of police.
   G.   Presumption Of Ownership: In the case of any parking citation or
handicapped parking violation issued by or on behalf of the village, regardless
of whether such citation is issued in the form of a mail in citation, or
whether such citation is prosecuted through the village's administrative
hearings or through the circuit court, the provisions of this subsection shall
apply. As the village's parking citations are civil in nature, the village
exercises its authority to determine the liability of owners for the parking of
vehicles registered in their name, within the corporate limits of the village.
      1.   Citation Issued To Occupied Vehicle: In the case of any citation
issued to a vehicle which is occupied or claimed by a driver at the time of
issuance of the citation, the citation shall be issued and prosecuted in the
name of the driver or person claiming responsibility.
      2.   Citation Issued To Unoccupied Vehicle: In the case of any citation
issued to a vehicle which is unoccupied and unclaimed by a driver at the time
of issuance, the citation shall be issued to the registered owner of the
vehicle.
         a.   In all such cases, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that
the registered owner of the vehicle is the party responsible and liable for the
vehicle's parking, violation of village or state code or ordinance, and
resulting fines, penalties and other liabilities.
         b.   For any parking citation issued to the owner of an unoccupied
vehicle, the village may accept payment for such citation from any party or
person.
         c.   For any parking citation issued to an unoccupied vehicle, the
only party that shall be authorized or entitled to contest the parking citation
and/or to request an administrative hearing on such citation is the registered
owner to whom such vehicle is registered.
            (1)   In the event that the registered owner contests such a
citation on the basis that a driver or person other than the registered owner
was operating the vehicle and/or parked the vehicle unlawfully, the registered
owner shall nonetheless be liable for the parking, violation of village or
state code or ordinance, and resulting fines, penalties and other liabilities
unless:
               (A) The registered owner produces a police report and other
documentation acceptable to the party reviewing the citation, demonstrating
that at the time the citation was issued, the vehicle had been reported stolen;
or
               (B) The registered owner produces documentary or testimonial
evidence demonstrating that at the time the citation was issued, an individual,
discrete, expressly named person identified by the registered owner had actual
custody of the vehicle and had personally parked the vehicle and incurred the
parking citation.
            (2)   It shall not be a defense to a citation issued to the
registered owner of an unoccupied vehicle that such vehicle was leased, rented,
loaned or otherwise utilized by a third party, in the absence of proof that the
vehicle was under such person's actual direct operation at the time that the
citation was issued.
   H.   Temporary Parking Restrictions Imposed: The chief of police and any
designees thereof shall be authorized to impose temporary parking restrictions
(limited hours, limited types of vehicles, etc.) or parking prohibitions (no
parking permitted) within the village.
      1.   Duration Of Restrictions: Said temporary restrictions may be imposed
for a period of no more than sixty (60) days at a time.
      2.   Method Of Posting/Notice: No such temporary parking restrictions
shall be enforced until at least forty eight (48) hours have passed since the
posting of temporary signs in the affected area, indicating the applicable
restrictions. Said temporary signs shall be enforceable for the time that they
remain posted. In the event of an emergency that requires less notice, the
temporary restrictions may be imposed and enforced upon the provision of
personal notice to any vehicles parked in the area of the temporary signs at
the time of their posting, and the temporary signs shall indicate the time at
which the temporary restrictions shall take effect.
      3.   Enforcement: Once forty eight (48) hours have passed after the
posting of temporary signs, the temporary parking restrictions may be enforced
in the same fashion as any other village parking restriction, and shall have
the effect of village ordinance. Because such temporary restrictions are
intended to be utilized in circumstances where the village determines that
parking presents a public safety threat, any vehicle parked in violation of the
temporary parking restrictions shall be subject to a minimum fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00), and shall be subject to immediate towing.
      4.   Removal Or Tampering With Temporary Parking Restriction Signs: It
shall be unlawful to move, remove, alter or tamper with any temporary parking
restriction signs posted by the village. Any such violation shall be subject to
a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2012-O-29, 12-3-
2012; amd. Ord. 2023-O-18, 10-2-2023)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Supervision And Enforcement
8-1-3: Private Streets
8-1-4: Permit To Construct Or Repair
8-1-5: Construction Specifications
8-1-6: Repairs And Defects
8-1-7: Traffic Control
8-1-8: Obstructions And Encroachments
8-1-9: View At Intersections
8-1-10: Safety Precautions
8-1-11: Openings In Public Ways
8-1-12: Deposits On Streets And Sidewalks
8-1-13: Utility Poles And Wires
8-1-14: Private Use Of Public Ways And Places Restricted
8-1-15: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-1-16: Penalty
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
          All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not limited to,
          track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults, boxes,
          equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes,
FACILITY: cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under,
          across or within rights-of-way under this article. For purposes of this article,
          the term “facility” shall not include any facility owned or operated by the
          Village.
          Any street, alley, other land, or waterway, dedicated or commonly used for
          pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar purposes, including utility
RIGHT-OF- easements, in which the Village has the right and authority to authorize, regulate
WAY OR    or permit the location of facilities other than those of the Village. Right-of-way
RIGHTS-   or rights-of-wav shall not include any real or personal Village property that is
OF-WAY:   not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not include Village
          buildings, fixtures and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether
          they are situated in the right-of-wav.
UTILITY:  The individual or entity owning or operating any “facility” as defined in this
          article. (Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
 
8-1-2: SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the
supervision of the village manager or such other person as he shall designate.
He shall have supervision over all work thereon, and the cleaning thereof, and
shall be charged with the enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to
such public places, except traffic ordinances, and is authorized to enforce
such ordinances. (1990 Code § 15.101; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-
2022)
8-1-3: PRIVATE STREETS:
Privately constructed, owned, and maintained streets shall be allowed in
approved subdivisions; provided, however, that regulations governing public
streets contained herein and elsewhere in this code generally shall be applied
to said private streets, except as provided in subsection
8-1-5A of this chapter, where repair work must be reported to, but not
necessarily be done under, the supervision of the village manager. (1990 Code §
15.102; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1-4: PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR:
It is unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on any public or private
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the same, without
having first secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be
made to the village clerk and shall state the location of the intended pavement
or repair, the extent thereof, and the person or firm who is to do the actual
construction work. (1990 Code § 15.103; amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1-5: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with the
specifications and standards as set forth in title 12 of this code and as
otherwise provided by applicable codes and as the village may otherwise direct.
   B.   Standards and Principles: All construction in the right-of-way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction”;
      2.   “Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions”;
      3.   “Highway Design Manual”;
      4.   “Highway Standards Manual”;
      5.   “Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items”;
      6.   “Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” (92 III. Adm.
Code section 545);
      7.   “Flaggers Handbook”; and
      8.   “Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations”.
   C.   Interpretation of Municipal Standards and Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
article, the Director of Public Works shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply, and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Director of Public Works shall state which standard or
principle will apply to the construction, maintenance or operation of a
facility in the future. (1990 Code § 15.104; amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1-6: REPAIRS AND DEFECTS:
   A.   Repairs Required: All public street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall
be in good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the village or the
abutting owner, shall be under the supervision of the village manager.
   B.   Defects Reported: It shall be the duty of every village official or
employee becoming cognizant of any defect in any street, alley, or sidewalk, or
any obstruction thereof, to report the same to the village manager as soon as
possible. (1990 Code §§ 15.106, 15.107; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-
2022)
8-1-7: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The village’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s “Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices” and this Code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices and Flaggers: Any person, firm or
corporation is responsible for providing and installing warning signs,
protective devices and flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable Federal,
State and local requirements for protection of the public and their workers
when performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   C.   Interference with Traffic: All work shall be phased so there is minimum
interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty-eight (48 hours) prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs, the utility shall
provide such notice as is practicable under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the Village. (Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1-8: OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Free Use And Access Of Public Ways: It is unlawful for any firm,
corporation or person to cause, create, maintain or permit the obstruction of
any street, alley, sidewalk, bike path, right of way, drainageway or public way
(collectively, “public way”) in a manner that interferes with the free use and
access of such area, except as authorized herein.
   B.   Intentional Obstruction: Any person who is, at any time, found
standing, walking, or sitting in a public way in such a manner as to prevent
the use or access to such public way to other members of the public and who
refuses to disperse or clear the public way and leave the area and clear said
public way when requested to do so by any member of the police department or by
any person annoyed thereby, shall be presumed to be intentionally obstructing
said public way.
   C.   Buildings And Signs: It is unlawful to erect or maintain any building
or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property or to erect,
install or maintain any sign in or upon any public street or other public way,
except as authorized by village ordinance.
   D.   Permitted Encroachments And Obstructions: The following shall be deemed
permitted encroachments and obstructions:
      1.   Licensed motor vehicles, when lawfully parked on a public roadway or
private property.
      2.   Privately owned mailboxes, when installed in accordance with
applicable federal, state and local regulations.
      3.   Other encroachments that are expressly permitted by the village of
Pingree Grove or its public works director, in writing (whether permanent or
temporary).
      4.   Property owned by the village of Pingree Grove, such as fire
hydrants, water service disconnects, informational or traffic signage,
streetlights, and similar items.
   E.   Prohibited Encroachments:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to install any semipermanent obstruction (other
than a permitted encroachment) in the village right of way, including, but not
limited to, structures, pillars, columns, boulders, permanent signs (without
properly issued permits) and similar obstructions.
      2.   It shall also be prohibited to make any delivery or deposit any
substance in a publicly owned street or a street upon which the village
enforces applicable vehicle codes, expressly including, but not limited to, the
delivery of building materials, stone or other similar items. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, it shall not be prohibited by this section to make a delivery
utilizing the roadway, where such delivery is not deposited directly on the
roadway (e.g., removing an appliance off of a truck liftgate and transporting
it to a residence or business).
      3.   It shall be expressly prohibited to make such a delivery where any
substance is deposited directly on the roadway (e.g., gravel), or delivered in
such a fashion as to damage or mark the roadway.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to make any delivery that violates any
provision of this section with respect to other village owned property (e.g.,
depositing building materials on a village owned sidewalk), and this section
expressly applies to all village owned properties as if fully stated herein.
   F.   Fines And Penalties: A violation of this section is punishable by a
fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), per day, for each day that a violation is
demonstrated to occur. In the case of multiple encroachments (e.g., a dumpster
and a pile of building materials), each such encroachment shall constitute a
separate offense. In addition, the contractor performing work and the owner of
the property at which work is being performed shall be jointly and severally
liable for any remediation costs or restitution due to the village to repair
any damage caused by any prohibited encroachment.
   G.   Emergency Abatement: In the event any encroachment is placed or
permitted to be located in a public right of way in a fashion as to create an
imminent or unjustifiable hazard to public safety, the village shall be
authorized to remove and relocate such impediment or encroachment. In such
event, the party responsible for creating such impediment and the owner of the
property served by the impediment shall be jointly and severally responsible
for all costs of removal, relocation, storage or abatement, including all
personnel hours and related costs, and machinery costs incurred by the village
in such relocation, plus a ten percent (10%) administrative charge. (Ord. 2015-
O-28, 10-5-2015; amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1-9: VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS 1 :
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain or permit to remain any fence or
other structure, or any bushes or other plants on a corner lot, within fifty
feet (50') of the street line, which obstructs the view, at a height of more
than thirty six inches (36") above the level of the adjacent street pavement.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this section shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which such obstruction to view is permitted
to remain after notice from the building department or any official of the
village to remove the same. (1990 Code § 15.121; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2022-O-
21, 7-18-2022)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 8-2-5B of this title and subsections
  5-4-1A and
  11-5-4B1d of this code.
8-1-10: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   Required:
      1.   Construction And Repair Works: Any person, firm or corporation
laying or repairing any pavement on any street, sidewalk or other public place
or making an excavation in the same shall maintain suitable barricades to
prevent injury to any person or vehicle by reason of the work; such barricades
shall be protected by suitable lights at nighttime.
      2.   Defects In Pavement: Any defect in any such pavement shall be
barricaded to prevent injury, and any person, firm or corporation properly
maintaining any opening or excavation in any such place shall guard such
opening or excavation while the same remains open by proper barricades and
lights.
   B.   Disturbing Safety Devices Prohibited: It is unlawful to disturb or
interfere with any barricades or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any
new pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk.
(1990 Code §§ 15.109, 15.110; amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1-11: OPENINGS IN PUBLIC WAYS:
It is unlawful to construct or maintain any opening or stairway in any public
street or alley or sidewalk or other public place without a permit from the
village. All such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitably
strong cover or railing, with the approval of the village. (1990 Code § 15.116;
amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1-12: DEPOSITS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Streets:
      1.   It is unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may be
harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass or other
article which may cause injury to any person, animal or property.
      2.   Coal or other materials may be deposited in streets preparatory to
delivery for use; provided, that such deposit does not reduce the usable width
of the street or roadbed at that point to less than eighteen feet (18'); and
provided, that such material or coal, other than material used in actual
building construction, shall not be permitted to remain in the street for more
than three (3) hours. Any such material or coal shall be guarded by lights if
the same remains upon any street during nighttime.
   B.   Sidewalks:
      1.   It is unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material which
may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass or
other article which might cause injury to persons, animals or property.
      2.   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the sidewalk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'); and provided, that no such article
shall remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour. (1990 Code §§
15.118, 15.119; amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1-13: UTILITY POLES AND WIRES:
It is unlawful to erect any poles or wires or maintain any poles or wires over
any public place, street, alley or other public way without first having
secured permission from the village manager. (1990 Code § 15.114; amd. 2011
Code; Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1-14: PRIVATE USE OF PUBLIC WAYS AND PLACES RESTRICTED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any street, sidewalk
or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise for
sale, or to write or mark any signs or advertisement on any such pavement. The
board of trustees may designate one or more days a year, at its sole
discretion, when merchandise may be displayed and sold on the sidewalks of the
village. However, display and sale of merchandise shall be confined to the
sidewalks in the village adjacent to business zoned property; and provided,
further, that the village may require a liability insurance policy naming the
village as an additional insured and an indemnity agreement covering all such
businesses displaying and selling merchandise. Such liability policy or
policies shall be in an amount and issued by such company or companies as are
acceptable to the board of trustees. This section providing for the display and
sale of merchandise on sidewalks shall not be construed as a lease, and any/all
sales of merchandise pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be in
compliance with all ordinances of the village. (1990 Code § 15.111; amd. Ord.
2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1-15: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Injury To Pavements: It is unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle
or animal upon, or injure any newly laid street or alley pavement while the
same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade; or to knowingly injure any
street, sidewalk or alley pavement.
   B.   Obstructing Drains: It is unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public
street or alley.
   C.   Gas Pumps: It is unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump or
tank in any public street, alley or sidewalk. (1990 Code §§ 15.105, 15.113,
15.115; amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1-16: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code § 15.122; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
ARTICLE A. EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Supervision And Enforcement
8-1A-2: Permit And Compliance Required
8-1A-3: Application For Permit; Fee
8-1A-4: Indemnification
8-1A-5: Exemptions From Permit Requirements
8-1A-6: Manner Of Excavating
8-1A-7: Temporary Sidewalks
8-1A-8: Safety Precautions
8-1A-9: Restoration Of Excavated Area
8-1A-10: Removal, Relocation Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
8-1A-11: Penalty
8-1A-1: SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The village engineer, or such person as he shall designate, shall, from time to
time, inspect all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public
street, alley, or other public place in the village to see to the enforcement
of the provisions of this article. Notice shall be given thereto at least ten
(10) hours before the work of refilling any such excavation or tunnel
commences. (1990 Code §15.610; amd. 2011 Code)
8-1A-2: PERMIT AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tunnel under or
make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the village
without having obtained a permit from the Village therefor as is herein
required, or without complying with the provisions of this article, or in
violation of or in variance from the terms of any such permit.
   A.   Village Right to Revoke Permit: The Village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this article for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Non-compliance with this article;
      3.   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice of Revocation or Suspension: The Village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
article stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt of Notice of Revocation or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the Village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the Village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the Village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the Village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across or within the rights of wav and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the Village providing written proof of such removal to
the Village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
The Village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this section.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the Village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within this section.
   E.   Failure or Refusal of the Permittee to Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of this section, the Village or its designee may,
at the option of the Village:
      1.   Correct the deficiencies;
      2.   Upon not less than twenty (20) days’ notice to the permittee, remove
the subject facilities or equipment; or
      3.   After not less than thirty (30) days’ notice to the permittee of
failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and property of the
Village. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the Village for all
costs of removal. (1990 Code § 15.601; amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1A-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
Applications for permits shall be made to the village clerk and shall describe
the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size, the purpose
therefor, the person, firm or corporation doing the actual excavating work and
the name of the person, firm or corporation for whom or which the work is being
done, and shall contain an agreement that the applicant will comply with all
the ordinances relating to the work to be done. The fee for such permit shall
be one hundred dollars ($100.00). (1990 Code §§15.603, 15.604; amd. 2011 Code)
8-1A-4: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, and as a condition
of same, a utility shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the
Village and its elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents
and representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney
fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to
arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts,
omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates,
officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction
of facilities or occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering
service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized,
allowed or prohibited by this article or by a franchise, license or similar
agreement; provided, however, that the utility’s indemnity obligations
hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages,
losses or expenses arising out of or resulting from the negligence or
misconduct by the Village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
No permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has filed
with the village clerk a bond, insurance policy or other indemnification in an
amount requested by the village, conditioned to indemnify the Village, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees for any loss,
liability or damage that may result or accrue because of the making or
existence of such excavation.
   A.   Required Coverages and Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the Village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed below:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as “X”, “C and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers’ compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
required policies to the Village prior to undertaking any work in the right of
way.?
   D.   Maintenance and Renewal of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after receipt by the Village, by
registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a written
notice addressed to the Village Manager of such intent to cancel or not renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the Village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the Village evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting
the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures in not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the Village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a “private
self-insurer” under the workers’ compensation act.
   F.   Effect of Insurance and Self-Insurance on Utility’s Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the Village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated “A-“or better
and of a class size “X” or higher by A.M. Best Company. (1990 Code § 15.605;
amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1A-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No permit or fee shall apply to or be required for excavations in
private streets and/or lanes. (1990 Code §15.602)
   B.   The provisions relative to securing permits shall not apply to officers
or employees of the village engaged in doing work for the village; nor to
persons or corporations which are operating under a franchise or grant from the
village president and board of trustees, if such franchise provides for the
making of excavations and tunnels without securing a permit therefor. (1990
Code §15.611)
8-1A-6: MANNER OF EXCAVATING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any way contrary to or
at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper bracing shall be
maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground; and in excavations, the
excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any portion which extends
beyond the opening at the surface.
   B.   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, or conduits in the making
of excavations or tunnels, and notice shall be given to the person or persons
charged with the care thereof which are or may be endangered or affected by the
making of any excavation or tunnel before such pipes, cables, or conduits shall
be disturbed.
   C.   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or
the roots thereof. (1990 Code §15.607)
8-1A-7: TEMPORARY SIDEWALKS:
If any sidewalk is blocked by any work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for traveling and convenient for
users. (1990 Code §15.608)
8-1A-8: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
Any person, firm or corporation making or maintaining any excavation in any
street or alley shall keep the same adequately guarded by barricades and lights
to protect persons and property from injury. (1990 Code §15.606)
8-1A-9: RESTORATION OF EXCAVATED AREA:
Any person, firm, or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or under
any public street, alley, or public place in the village shall restore the
surface thereof to its original condition if there is no pavement there.
Refills shall be properly tamped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or
excavation shall be left in the ground. (1990 Code §15.609)
8-1A-10: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
Village, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the Village has determined
that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably necessary
for the construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any Village
initiated or mandated improvement in or upon, or the operations of the Village
in or upon, the rights-of-way.
   B.   Removal of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the Village, any utility that owns, controls or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights-of-way.
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this article; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal or Relocation of Facilities: The Village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the Village, as the Village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the Village shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the Village, the utility shall notify the Village within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the Village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the Director of Public
Works determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public
health, safety and welfare. In the event the Village does not direct the
utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of
abandonment to the Village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent
to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by another
utility or person. (Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
8-1A-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of this article
shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code § 15.612; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2022-O-21, 7-18-2022)
ARTICLE B. DRIVEWAYS
SECTION:
8-1B-1: Permit Required
8-1B-2: Application For Permit; Fee
8-1B-3: Grading And Surfaces
8-1B-4: Construction Specifications
8-1B-5: Maintenance And Repairs
8-1B-6: Penalty
8-1B-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall construct a driveway for vehicles across
any sidewalk in the village without first having obtained a permit therefor.
(1990 Code §15.201)
8-1B-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
Applications for such permits shall be made at the office of the village clerk
and shall be accompanied by the fee required. (1990 Code §15.202)
8-1B-3: GRADING AND SURFACES:
   A.   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step, a
sharp depression or other obstruction on the sidewalk. The grade shall be, as
nearly as possible, the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk.
   B.   It is unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway where the
same crosses the sidewalk constructed of such materials as to render it
slippery or hazardous to pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion vary
from the grade of the sidewalk, or be other than level, or to obstruct the
surface drainage. (1990 Code §15.203)
8-1B-4: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with the
specifications and standards as set forth in title 12 of this code and as
otherwise provided by applicable codes and as the village may otherwise direct.
(1990 Code §15.204)
8-1B-5: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS:
It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to keep the same in
good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from obstruction and
openings. (1990 Code §15.205)
8-1B-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this article shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code §15.206; amd. 2011 Code)
ARTICLE C. [RESERVED]
ARTICLE D. SNOW REMOVAL, MAILBOXES AND RIGHT OF WAY OBSTRUCTIONS
SECTION:
8-1D-1: Definitions
8-1D-2: Mailboxes And Right Of Way Obstructions
8-1D-3: Snow Deposit And Removal Prohibitions
8-1D-4: Exemptions
8-1D-5: Preemption
8-1D-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed thereto in this section:
ARTIFICIALLY DEPOSITING: The displacement of snow during the act of snow
removal.
COMMERCIAL SNOWPLOW: Any person or vehicle engaged in the act of snow removal
for hire or profit.
DAMAGE: Tear, remove, destroy or mar any surface, including the gouging or
destruction of sod, soil or plants, while removing any snow, except for the
routine scraping of any hard surface, such as asphalt, pavement or concrete,
that occurs when any vehicle or equipment utilized for snow removal is
operating on said hard surface to remove snow.
DRIVEWAY: Any lane, path, or way utilized either privately or publicly for the
movement of pedestrians or vehicles in order to access any street or sidewalk.
FIRE HYDRANT: Any permanently installed device, connected to a water source
such as a water main or line, used for the discharge of water in the
performance of abatement or elimination of fire.
GRAVEL SHOULDER: The gravel portion of a right of way in the village which is
installed and maintained by the village extending three feet (3') from the
pavement.
MAILBOX: Includes residential or commercial mailboxes, rural route mailboxes,
newspaper boxes, fast freight drop off boxes and any similar devices intended
for use as curbside drop off or delivery.
OBSTRUCTING: Blocking the access, passage or visibility of any vehicle or
person.
RIGHT OF WAY: That area adjoining any street or sidewalk which is designated on
an official plat, official map, or other official document as a right of way,
or in the absence of any such document, that area within five feet (5') of the
curbing or edge of any street.
SNOW: Any snow, slush, ice, frozen rain or other form of frozen precipitation.
SNOW REMOVAL: The act of engaging in the dragging, blowing, pushing, forcing,
or otherwise moving any snow from the location in which it was naturally
deposited to any other location, whether manually or with the aid of a vehicle
or tool, and whether engaged in for profit or not.
STREET: Any improved or unimproved surface maintained by any municipal
organization, either local, county, or state, within the municipal boundaries
of the village for the purpose of allowing the movement of vehicles or persons,
provided such surface is designated as a street, road, highway, or other
passageway.
VILLAGE EMPLOYEE: Any person or business entity engaged in the act of snow
removal because of employment by the village, either directly or through a snow
removal contract with the village. (Ord. 2008-21, 6-16-2008)
8-1D-2: MAILBOXES AND RIGHT OF WAY OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Location, Placement And Construction Requirements:
      1.   Mailboxes located in the public right of way, or within any easement
granted to the village, shall be placed to safely and conveniently serve mail
carriers.
      2.   Mailboxes shall be located on the right hand side of the road in the
direction of travel established for vehicular traffic.
      3.   Mailboxes shall be installed in accordance with the following
setbacks:
         a.   An eighteen inch (18") setback from the back of the curb to the
face of the mailbox support, or if no curb exists, from the edge of the road
pavement, or from the edge of a mailbox turnout (either paved or gravel), or
from the edge of a gravel shoulder, closest to the mailbox.
         b.   A maximum of forty two inch (42") and a minimum of thirty six
inch (36") clearance between the road pavement and the bottom of the mailbox.
         c.   Even with or up to a maximum six inch (6") setback from the back
of the curb to the face of the mailbox, or if no curb exists, a minimum six
inch (6") setback to a maximum twelve inch (12") setback from the edge of the
road pavement, or from the edge of a mailbox turnout (either paved or gravel),
or from the edge of a gravel shoulder.
         d.   Mailboxes and their supports shall not encroach in or upon any
public sidewalk.
         e.   Mailboxes shall meet the published standards of the United States
postal services bulletin 21997 (5-6-99) as well as Illinois department of
transportation standards along state highways.
      4.   Mailbox supports shall be constructed of nominal four inch by four
inch (4"x4") or four and one-half inch (41/2") diameter wood posts, or one and
one-half inch (11/2") to two inch (2") diameter standard steel or aluminum pipe
posts, buried no more than twenty four inches (24") into the ground. Said
supports shall be constructed in accordance with the standards delineated in
United States postal service bulletin 21997 (5-6-99) attached to the ordinance
codified herein as exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference. Unacceptable
support structures include, but are not limited to, brick, block, stone or
concrete masonry columns, wagon wheels, or steel pipes 1 .
      5.   a.   The mailbox shall be securely attached to its support to
prevent it from separating from the support if struck by a vehicle, and shall
be regularly maintained by the property owner to ensure continuing compliance
with these regulations.
         b.   In the case of wooden mailbox supports (4 inch by 4 inch wooden
post), the mailbox shall be supported by a minimum of a two inch (2") thick
(e.g., 2 inch by 4 inch) horizontal support attached to the wooden post, with
the horizontal support being augmented by a minimum of a two inch (2") thick
(e.g., 2 inch by 4 inch) angled support installed at a forty five degree (45°)
angle to the vertical wooden post and to the horizontal support. The wooden
post, horizontal support and angled support shall be connected by galvanized or
stainless steel screws, minimum two inches (2") in length; nails or untreated
(e.g., drywall) screws, and screws of less than two inches (2") in length are
prohibited. Use of reinforcing galvanized or painted hardware (metal angle
supports, etc.) is encouraged. Wood used for wooden mailbox supports shall be
of a weather resistant type (e.g., pressure treated wood or cedar), and shall
be treated with a weather resistant sealant or protectant. Wooden supports that
are rotted or whose connecting hardware (screws, etc.) are rusted or broken
shall be repaired or replaced as necessary to comply with these requirements.
         c.   In the case of nonwooden mailbox supports or nonwooden materials
attached to a wooden post, the supports shall be regularly maintained and shall
be constructed of weather resistant (e.g., galvanized or painted metal,
plastic, aluminum, stainless steel) materials, joined with galvanized or
stainless steel hardware, and regularly maintained. Mailbox supports that are
rusted, broken, corroded, cracked or otherwise in disrepair shall be repaired
or replaced as necessary to comply with these requirements.
      6.   The property owner shall be responsible for the replacement, repair
and maintenance of mailboxes, except as otherwise provided by subsection A8 of
this section. (Ord. 2008-21, 6-16-2008)
      7.   The village shall not be responsible for damaging any improvement or
item located in a public right of way, other than a lawfully parked motor
vehicle. Without limitation, the Village shall not be responsible for
replacement of mailboxes, mailbox support structures, landscaping, sod, or
other privately installed or maintained structures located within the public
right of way. (Ord. 2015-O-40, 12-7-2015)
      8.   If the owner of any premises within the village fails to correct or
remove an unapproved mailbox/support installation after seven (7) days from the
issuance of a written order by the building commissioner (or his designee), he
shall cause the summary abatement of such nuisance at the expense of the person
responsible for the same.
   B.   Nonconforming Mailbox/Support Installations:
      1.   The use of existing mailbox/support installations which do not
conform to the provisions of this section may be continued, although such use
does not conform with the provisions hereof, and such use may be extended,
provided no structural alterations are made therein. Whenever a nonconforming
use of a mailbox/support has been changed to a more restricted use or to a
conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted
use. (Ord. 2008-21, 6-16-2008)
      2.   No mailbox/support installation which has been damaged by fire,
explosion, act of God, act of nature, the public enemy, intentional or
unintentional causes, to an extent that the building commissioner (or his
designee) determines, in his sole discretion, is not acceptable, shall be
restored except in conformance with the regulations of this section. (Ord.
2008-21, 6-16-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
      3.   No existing mailbox/support installation devoted to a use not
permitted by this section shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed, or
structurally altered unless such use is changed in conforming with the
regulations of this section.
      4.   In the event any property owner seeks to install a nonconforming
mailbox/support installation, or to obtain a village permit for an existing
nonconforming mailbox/support, he may file an application with the village
building department for the same. Upon payment of the then current permit
review fee, the village shall review the application and, if consistent with
this article, issue a permit, subject to the following requirements:
         a.   Mailboxes constructed of brick or masonry materials shall not
exceed 2.5 feet long by 2.5 feet wide, and cannot exceed sixty inches (60")
above the edge of the pavement 2 .
         b.   No other improvements or additions shall be made to said
mailboxes, including, but not limited to: wing walls, planters, light fixtures
or signage other than addresses or nameplates as permitted under the zoning
ordinance. Said mailboxes shall have a foundation to support the structure to
prevent frost heaving and instability.
         c.   Foundations shall be at least twelve inches (12") deep, and shall
not exceed twenty four inches (24") deep. Utility locates shall be completed
prior to any construction of said mailbox.
         d.   A hold harmless agreement and release shall be signed with the
village prior to construction of any mailbox; provided, that the owner of the
property is solely responsible for the maintenance of and liability for the
mailbox. Issuance of a village permit shall not constitute any indication that
the proposed mailbox complies with applicable state or federal standards, nor
that it complies with applicable covenants, conditions and restrictions for any
subdivision.
   C.   Other Right Of Way Obstructions: Nothing contained within this article
shall be construed to permit any property owner to install or maintain any
other obstruction within any public right of way other than after obtaining
village permission and consent, via permit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and
regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued, the village shall not be
responsible for any damage caused to any private property located within a
public right of way, including, but not limited to, landscaping, "invisible
fence" wiring, plants, shrubs, trees, lighting, sprinkler systems, hoses,
plumbing or any other materials whatsoever, regardless of the fashion in which
the property is damaged (e.g., damage to plantings caused by the village
application of salt to roadways, or damage to underground "invisible fence"
wiring caused by village snow removal shall not be a liability of the village).
(Ord. 2008-21, 6-16-2008; amd. Ord. 2019-O-28, 8-19-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  8-1D-2B4a of this article.
2 1. See also subsection
  8-1D-2A4 of this article.
8-1D-3: SNOW DEPOSIT AND REMOVAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Deposits On Public Ways: It is unlawful for any person to artificially
deposit any snow upon a street or sidewalk or gravel shoulder of a street
within the village. Such artificial depositing includes, but is not limited to,
the act of snow removal from a driveway or path, across any street, and onto
the right of way on the side of the street opposite the driveway.
   B.   Obstructing Public Ways: It is unlawful for any person to artificially
deposit any snow so as to obstruct a street or sidewalk within the village.
Such artificial depositing includes snow removal so as to prevent pedestrians
or vehicles from being able to pass any such right of way, street or sidewalk,
or the removal of snow so as to block the vision of any person attempting to
traverse any intersection of any street, sidewalk, or driveway.
   C.   Obstructing Fire Hydrants: It is unlawful for any person to
artificially deposit any snow in any location so as to obstruct the access or
visibility of any fire hydrant within the village.
   D.   Damage To Property During Snow Removal: It is unlawful for any person
to damage any property, mailbox, fire hydrant, right of way, street or sidewalk
during any snow removal. It is also unlawful to fail to inform the owner of
property of any damage to property, mailbox, fire hydrant, right of way, street
or sidewalk that occurs during any snow removal.
   E.   Deposit On Private Property: It is unlawful for any commercial snowplow
to artificially deposit any snow on private property without the express
consent of the property owner prior to the depositing. (Ord. 2008-21, 6-16-
2008)
8-1D-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   No person shall be held liable for any obstruction of any fire hydrant,
right of way, street or sidewalk where such obstruction occurs as a result of
the natural accumulation of snow, except where such natural accumulation is
aggravated by any snow removal.
   B.   No person shall be held liable for a temporary violation of this
article, not exceeding ten (10) minutes in time, which occurs while in the
performance of snow removal.
   C.   No village employee or private contractor employed by the village shall
be held liable for any violation of this article while acting in the
performance of his official or contractual snow removal duties for the village
or on its behalf. (Ord. 2008-21, 6-16-2008)
8-1D-5: PREEMPTION:
Nothing contained in this article shall preempt or alter any common law or
statutory right of recovery of any person for damages incurred as a result of
any snow removal, except to the extent that this article affects the liability
of the village for damage to private property located within a public right of
way. (Ord. 2008-21, 6-16-2008)
ARTICLE E. CURBS, RIGHT OF WAY IMPROVEMENTS, PLANTER BOXES AND STORMWATER
INFILTRATION AREAS
SECTION:
8-1E-1: Definitions
8-1E-2: Crossing Barrier Curbs
8-1E-3: Damage To Right Of Way Improvements Prohibited
8-1E-4: Planter Boxes And Stormwater Infiltration Areas
8-1E-5: Penalty
8-1E-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BARRIER CURB: Any curb other than a mountable curb, including, but not limited
to, curbs with a straight profile, perpendicular to the ground, of four inches
(4") or more in height.
CURB: A concrete structure located along the perimeter of an improved (asphalt,
concrete, or other hard surface) roadway.
MOUNTABLE CURB: A curb with a design permitting the curb to be crossed by
vehicles without need for any depression in the curb; more specifically, a curb
with a rounded profile whose elevation is less than four inches (4") and whose
width is not less than eight inches (8").
PLANTER BOXES: Any areas within a public right of way which are maintained by
the village and improved with the installation of bushes, flowers, or
decorative flora other than turf grass.
RIGHT OF WAY IMPROVEMENT: Any public improvement installed within a public
right of way, including, but not limited to: curbs, street signs, streetlights,
U.S. postal public collection boxes, fire hydrants, valve boxes or other water
system appurtenances, manholes, storm sewer inlets or grates, sidewalks,
planter boxes (or the contents thereof), stormwater infiltration areas (or the
contents thereof), or related improvements.
STORMWATER INFILTRATION AREAS: Any areas within a public right of way which are
generally surrounded by curb or other similar barrier, with one or more grates
or inlets permitting the flow of stormwater into the area, with a depressed
basin intended to collect and permit infiltration and/or discharge of
stormwater, or any area within a public right of way, depicted on an
engineering plan approved by the village board as being a stormwater
infiltration area (whether or not such area is labeled as such). (Ord. 2008-28,
9-8-2008)
8-1E-2: CROSSING BARRIER CURBS:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall operate any vehicle, whether motorized or
not, in such a fashion as to cause such vehicle to cross or drive upon any
barrier curb within the corporate limits of the village, except within the
confines of a village authorized curb cut or depression designed for the
passage of such vehicles.
   B.   Exceptions: The following shall be permitted to cross or drive upon
barrier curbs, subject to the terms and conditions of this subsection:
      1.   Emergency vehicles, including, but not limited to, police or fire
vehicles, where necessary to provide emergency services or gain access to one
or more properties.
      2.   Vehicles operated by any utility company, including, but not limited
to, telephone, cable, or electrical utilities, where necessary to gain access
to properties and/or service utility lines.
      3.   Any vehicle owned or operated by the village or any other municipal
or public entity authorized by the village manager.
      4.   Any vehicle providing snow removal services by or on behalf of the
village, on village owned and maintained public streets.
      5.   Any vehicles involved in a village authorized road, curb or utility
installation, repair or improvement project.
      6.   Any vehicle gaining access to a construction site, subject to the
following terms:
         a.   The construction site must be subject to approved and issued
village permits appropriate for the nature of the job.
         b.   The person(s) applying for the permit must indicate any areas in
which they seek to cross existing barrier curbs, and obtain permission from the
village manager prior to doing so.
         c.   The village manager may impose such conditions as he deems
necessary or reasonable under the circumstances prior to granting any such
permission, including the imposition of a durational limit on the curb crossing
permit, or requiring the posting of a bond or creation of an escrow account to
cover any potential damage to the curbs or to cover the cleaning of streets or
other similar nuisance conditions which may be created by the construction
site.
         d.   The person(s) crossing or driving upon the barrier curbs must use
appropriate protective measures (e.g., wooden blocks, ramps, tires or rubber
mats) to protect the curbs from damage. Any curb with an exposed rear edge
(i.e., a curb that does not have compacted fill up to the rear of the curb, on
the side opposite of the public street) shall have appropriate ramps or other
protective devices utilized in said area to prevent crushing, deforming, or
depressing the curb.
         e.   The person(s) crossing or driving upon the barrier curbs, the
owner of the property with the construction site upon it, and the permit
applicant for the construction site (if different from the owner) shall be
jointly and severally liable for any damage caused to the curbs by the
construction activities or by the driving upon or across the curbs. (Ord. 2008-
28, 9-8-2008)
8-1E-3: DAMAGE TO RIGHT OF WAY IMPROVEMENTS PROHIBITED:
No person shall damage, nor cause or permit to be damaged, any right of way
improvement within the corporate limits of the village. Any person who shall
violate this section shall be responsible for the cost of repair or replacement
of the right of way improvements, in addition to any fines imposed based upon
the violation of this article. (Ord. 2008-28, 9-8-2008)
8-1E-4: PLANTER BOXES AND STORMWATER INFILTRATION AREAS:
No person shall, without first obtaining the express, written permission of the
village, alter or remove or add to any plantings from a planter box or
stormwater infiltration area, remove or add fill or soil to any planter box or
stormwater infiltration area, spray or apply any chemical compound including,
but not limited to, herbicides or fertilizers, to any planter box or stormwater
infiltration area, or otherwise alter or interfere with the village management
of any planter box or stormwater infiltration area. In addition, no person
shall obstruct any stormwater infiltration area inlet or otherwise interfere
with the passage of stormwater into or through such areas. Any person who shall
violate this section shall be responsible for the cost of repair or restoration
of the planter box or stormwater infiltration area, in addition to any fines
imposed based upon the violation of this article. (Ord. 2008-28, 9-8-2008)
8-1E-5: PENALTY:
Violation of any section of this article shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. Relative to sections
8-1E-2 and
8-1E-3 of this article, a separate offense shall be deemed to be committed on
each individual violation. Relative to section
8-1E-4 of this article, a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2008-28, 9-8-2008)
CHAPTER 2
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Forms And Instructions Required Prior To Planting
8-2-3: Types Permitted
8-2-4: Spacing
8-2-5: Location
8-2-6: Care And Maintenance
8-2-7: Unauthorized Removal, Damage Prohibited
8-2-8: Dangerous Trees; Trimming Or Removal Required
8-2-9: Protection Of Trees And Shrubs
8-2-10: Penalty
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
PARKWAY: A strip of land which is part of the dedicated street right of way
extending from the edge of the street pavement or curb line to the public
sidewalk or right of way property line.
SHRUBBERY: A group of low, usually several stemmed, woody plants.
TREE: A woody perennial plant having a single main stem or trunk exceeding ten
feet (10') in height at maturity. (1990 Code §15.501)
8-2-2: FORMS AND INSTRUCTIONS REQUIRED PRIOR TO PLANTING:
Anyone planning to plant a tree within the parkway must get instructions
regarding this chapter and fill out the necessary forms issued by the village
clerk. (1990 Code §15.502)
8-2-3: TYPES PERMITTED:
The street tree planting shall consist of the following types: (1990 Code
§15.505)
   A.   Types with mature height over fifty feet (50'): Norway maple, sugar
maple, red maple, black maple, improved silver maple, red oak, scarlet oak, pin
oak, white oak, oriental and London plane, sycamore, sycamore maple, American
linden, little leaf linden, silver linden, hackberry, thornless honey locust
and improved podless varieties, i.e., the moraine locust, ginkgo, tulip tree,
Kentucky coffeetree. (Ord. 2016-O-22, 11-21-2016)
   B.   Types with mature height under fifty feet (50'): Schwedler maple,
crimson king maple, sweet gum, cork tree, yellowwood, golden rain tree.
   C.   Small ornamental types: ironwood, Washington hawthorn, shadblow, red
bus, Russian olive, Japanese lilac tree, kobus magnolia, flowering crabs with
small fruit (dwarf crabs not permitted). Other types and varieties may be used
if approved by the tree committee. (1990 Code §15.505)
8-2-4: SPACING:
   A.   Types of trees used that attain a mature height of over fifty feet
(50') shall be planted not less than forty feet (40') apart nor within forty
feet (40') of another tree outside the property line within the parkway.
   B.   Types of trees used that have a mature height of less than fifty feet
(50') or are of narrow spreading habit shall be planted not less than thirty
feet (30') apart nor within thirty feet (30') of another tree outside the
property line within the parkway.
   C.   Small ornamental types of trees shall be planted not less than fifteen
feet (15') apart nor within fifteen feet (15') of another tree outside the
property line within the parkway. (1990 Code §15.503)
8-2-5: LOCATION:
   A.   Trees shall be planted at least four feet (4') from all sidewalks,
driveways or other paved areas. If the width of the parkway is less than seven
feet (7'), the tree shall be centered in the parkway. If the width of the
parkway is less than five feet (5'), only small ornamental type trees shall be
planted. (1990 Code §15.504)
   B.   Trees to be planted shall be at least twenty feet (20') from the
property corner at all street intersections. On corner lots, no plantings shall
be maintained higher than thirty six inches (36") above the centerline grade of
the intersecting street if located within that triangular portion of a required
front or side yard situated within twenty feet (20') of a lot corner formed by
the intersection of any two (2) street lines 1 . (1990 Code §15.504; amd. 2011
Code)
 
Notes
  1. See also section
1 8-1-7 of this title and subsections
  5-4-1A and
  11-5-4B1d of this code.
8-2-6: CARE AND MAINTENANCE:
Proper maintenance and care shall be given all newly planted trees, and said
trees shall be replaced if not alive one year after the date of planting. The
village adheres to the standards as written in ANSI A300 tree care operations:
standard practices for tree, shrub and other woody plant maintenance. (Ord.
2016-O-22, 11-21-2016)
8-2-7: UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL, DAMAGE PROHIBITED:
No person shall remove any tree in the parkway or on public property without
first obtaining written permission from the director of public works. No person
shall wilfully damage or harm any trees on public property. (1990 Code §15.507)
8-2-8: DANGEROUS TREES; TRIMMING OR REMOVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the village in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the
premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   B.   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across
any public place or way shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which
such tree grows or stands. The director of public works may trim such tree or
shrub or remove any such tree or branch thereof so that the obstruction or
danger to traffic or pedestrians shall be eliminated. (1990 Code §15.508)
8-2-9: PROTECTION OF TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Injury: It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub in any public
place. (1990 Code §15.510)
   B.   Utility Companies:
      1.   Any person or company which maintains poles and wires in the
streets, alleys or other public places shall, in the absence of provision in
the franchise covering the subject, keep such wires and poles free and away
from any trees and shrubs in such places as far as possible, and shall keep all
such trees and shrubs near such wires and poles properly trimmed, subject to
the supervision of the village manager or his designee, so that no injury shall
be done either to the poles or wires or to the shrubs and trees by their
contact. (1990 Code §15.509; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   Any person, firm or corporation maintaining any gas pipe in the
village shall keep such pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done
thereby to any trees or shrubs. (1990 Code §15.512)
   C.   Attaching Wire, Rope Or Other Cordage: It is unlawful to attach any
wire, rope or other similar cordage to any tree or shrub on any public street,
parkway or other public place without the permission of the public works
director or a designee thereof. (Ord. 2016-O-22, 11-21-2016)
   D.   Posting Advertisements Or Notices: It shall be unlawful to attach any
sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or shrub in any public place. (1990
Code §15.511)
   E.   Excavations: In making excavations in streets or other public places,
proper care shall be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree, flower or
shrub whenever possible. (1990 Code §15.513)
8-2-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or is permitted to
continue. (1990 Code §15.514; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PARKS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definition
8-3-2: Hours Of Operation
8-3-3: General Use Regulations
8-3-4: Reservation For Private Activities And Gatherings
8-3-5: Suspension Of Regulations
8-3-1: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this chapter, a "park" shall be defined as any playground, open
space, tot lot, or other recreation area which:
   A.   Is open to the public or operated or maintained by the village; or
   B.   Is a private park, not open to the public and not operated or
maintained by the village, but which is the subject of an agreement whereby the
village has jurisdiction to enforce this chapter in such park; or
   C.   Is a public park owned by a school district, charter school or other
unit of government other than a park district or forest preserve, and which
does not have hours of operation posted. (Ord. 2007-62, 6-4-2007)
8-3-2: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Generally: The hours of operation for any "park", as defined in section
8-3-1 of this chapter, shall be from dawn to dusk, or such other time as shall
be set by resolution of the village board of trustees.
   B.   Alternate Hours: The village board of trustees may, by ordinance,
resolution or agreement, set alternate hours for the operation of any park,
which such hours shall be governing; provided, that a notice of the hours of
park operation is posted in a prominent location at the park affected. Further,
the village manager or police chief may grant written, temporary permission for
extended use of a park area after the normal hours of operation, for a period
not to exceed forty eight (48) hours, upon application from a member of the
public.
   C.   Effect On Park District Or Forest Preserve: Nothing contained in this
section shall alter or affect any hours of operation for any public park under
the control of any park district or forest preserve. (Ord. 2007-62, 6-4-2007)
8-3-3: GENERAL USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Use of village owned or maintained parks, as defined in section
8-3-1 of this chapter, is open to the public, subject to the terms and
restrictions of village ordinances. Other than as provided in this chapter, no
person or organization shall have the ability to exclusively use all or a
portion of a village park.
   B.   No person shall use or possess any alcoholic beverages, nor shall any
person use any tobacco product in any village owned or maintained park or open
space. (Ord. 2007-85, 11-5-2007)
8-3-4: RESERVATION FOR PRIVATE ACTIVITIES AND GATHERINGS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to conduct or attend any social
gathering of persons which disrupts or blocks access to any village owned or
maintained "park", as defined in section
8-3-1 of this chapter (hereafter referred to as a "private party"), unless a
permit has been issued for such private party or gathering in accordance with
this section.
   B.   Application For Permit; Fee:
      1.   Any person desirous of securing the permit required to host a
private party shall file an application therefor with the village clerk upon a
form provided by the village, setting forth the following information:
         a.   Proposed date of event and alternate date in case of rain.
         b.   Location of park to be affected by proposed event.
         c.   Hours during which the event is proposed to be held.
         d.   Name, address and telephone number of a person over the age of
eighteen (18) years to be designated as the sponsor of the proposed event. In
the event a proposed private party is sponsored by more than one person, each
such sponsor should be listed.
         e.   Name and cellular telephone number of a sponsor serving as an
emergency contact who can be reached at the cellular telephone number provided
at all times during the pendency of the private party.
      2.   Applications shall be submitted, along with a nonrefundable review
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), or such other fee as shall be set by resolution
of the village board, not less than thirty (30) days prior to the proposed date
of the event.
   C.   Review Of Application; Denials: Applications shall be reviewed by the
village clerk who may consult with the village engineers, village attorneys, or
any other person deemed appropriate. Any denial of a request for a permit may
be reviewed by the village board of trustees at the applicant's request. No
permit shall be issued for any private party which may endanger the public
health, welfare and safety.
   D.   Restrictions And Exemptions: Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be subject to the following restrictions and exemptions:
      1.   No private party or gathering shall extend beyond ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. upon any portion of the park, nor shall any private party or gathering
begin before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
      2.   No sidewalk, bike path or walking path located in a public park
shall be completely blocked by any private party or gathering, but rather,
access must be available for any person wishing to use the public right of way
for either pedestrian or vehicular purposes.
      3.   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold at any private party or gathering.
      4.   The sponsor(s) shall be responsible for the removal of all litter,
refuse or property deposited in the public park as a result of the private
party or gathering at the end of such private party or gathering.
      5.   No person attending any private party or gathering in the public
park shall make any loud noise or disturbance which will create a nuisance for
persons not attending the private party or gathering.
      6.   The sponsor will be responsible for any costs incurred by the
village for police response to a private party and cleanup or repair of public
park used or damaged by a private party. The sponsor shall be required to sign
a statement as to such responsibility at the time a permit is issued.
      7.   No private party shall be permitted to create or cause a breach of
the peace. In the event a private party creates or causes a breach of the peace
as determined by the village president, his designee, or any sworn law
enforcement officer, such private party shall be immediately terminated.
      8.   No sponsor may reserve a park more frequently than once every three
(3) months, and no park may be reserved for a private party on any legal
holiday. Further, no private party may last more than two (2) consecutive days
in any seven (7) day period with the party beginning and ending in accordance
with the provisions of subsection D1 of this section.
   E.   Forms: The village clerk shall, in cooperation with village staff,
develop the forms necessary to implement this section and to provide for
indemnification of the village by the sponsors of any private party. (Ord.
2007-85, 11-5-2007)
8-3-5: SUSPENSION OF REGULATIONS:
The village board may, by majority vote, suspend all or any portion of sections
8-3-3 and
8-3-4 of this chapter for any village sponsored activity to occur in any public
park. (Ord. 2007-85, 11-5-2007)
CHAPTER 4
BLOCK PARTIES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Permit Required
8-4-2: Application For Permit
8-4-3: Review Of Application; Approval Or Denial Of Permit
8-4-4: Restrictions And Exemptions
8-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or attend any social gathering of persons which
disrupts or blocks pedestrian or vehicular traffic on any public right of way
(hereafter referred to as a "block party") unless a permit has been issued for
such block party or gathering in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 2009-08,
4-6-2009)
8-4-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Any person desirous of securing the permit required to host a block
party shall file an application therefor with the village clerk upon a form
provided by the village, setting forth the following information:
      1.   Proposed date of the event and alternate date in case of rain.
      2.   Location of the right of way to be affected by proposed event.
      3.   Hours during which the event is proposed to be held.
      4.   Name, address and telephone number of persons over the age of
eighteen (18) years to be designated as a sponsor or cosponsors of the proposed
event.
      5.   Description and location of any barricades or other traffic control
devices to be utilized at the perimeter of such block party.
      6.   Name and cellular telephone number of a sponsor serving as an
emergency contact who can be reached at the cellular telephone number provided,
at all times during the pendency of the block party.
      7.   Signature consent of at least fifty one percent (51%) of the
households within the area designated for closure.
   B.   The requirements of this chapter are the minimum requirements for such
application, and the village manager is authorized to amend the application
from time to time to include such terms and conditions as he/she deems
necessary and appropriate, without further village board approval and without
need to amend this chapter.
   C.   Applications shall be submitted not less than fourteen (14) days prior
to the proposed date of the block party, along with other fees that shall be
set by resolution of the village board, not less than thirty (30) days prior to
the proposed date of the event. (Ord. 2009-08, 4-6-2009)
8-4-3: REVIEW OF APPLICATION; APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
Applications shall be reviewed by the village manager or his/her designee. Upon
approval, the village will notify the village police department, village fire
protection district and village liquor control commissioner of the event and
scheduled closure. Any denial of a request for a permit may be appealed to the
village board of trustees, at the applicant's request, by filing a written
petition for appeal of the denial within ten (10) days of the date thereof. No
permit shall be issued for any block party which is proposed to be held on any
public street other than a minor residential street, or which may endanger the
public health, welfare and safety, or will unduly interfere with the flow of
traffic. Block party permits shall ordinarily not be granted during the conduct
of Village wide special events (such as the Village’s Independence Day
celebrations). (Ord. 2009-08, 4-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-O-23, 7-1-2019)
8-4-4: RESTRICTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to the following
restrictions and exemptions:
   A.   No block party or gathering shall begin prior to ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. or extend beyond ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. upon any portion of the public
right of way. The sponsor(s) shall ensure that the barricades are removed and
the public right of way is clear for full access at ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   B.   No public right of way shall be completely blocked by any block party
or gathering, but rather, access must be available for emergency vehicles
operated by any public authority, official vehicles of the village,
pedestrians, and vehicles operated by those persons who live on the affected
portion of the right of way (whose operation shall be limited to ingress and
egress from their respective properties).
   C.   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold at any block party or gathering.
   D.   The sponsor(s) shall be responsible for the removal of all litter,
refuse or property deposited in the public right of way as a result of the
block party or gathering at the end of such block party or gathering.
   E.   No person attending any block party or gathering in the public right of
way shall make any loud noise or disturbance which will create a nuisance for
persons not attending the block party or gathering, nor shall any attendee
violate any applicable Village code or ordinance.
   F.   The sponsor(s) will be responsible for any costs incurred by the
village for establishing detours, assigning of police officers for traffic
direction, cleanup or repair of the public right of way used or damaged by the
block party or gathering. The sponsor(s) shall be required to sign a statement
as to such responsibility as part of the permit application. (Ord. 2009-08, 4-
6-2009)
   G.   No portion of the public right of way for which a block party permit
has been issued shall be considered a street, highway, public sidewalk or
public place for purposes of subsection
4-2-26B of this code for the duration of the block party. During the conduct of
the block party, it shall be permitted for attendees who are of legal age to
have open containers of alcoholic beverages in the public right of way within
the confines of the block party, provided that they are not in possession of,
driving or attempting to drive any motor vehicle, motorized vehicle, bicycle or
other vehicle. Furthermore, the issuance of a permit under this chapter shall
constitute authorization to temporarily obstruct a public street for the
duration of the block party under subsections
8-1-6A and B of this code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the issuance of a
block party permit shall not be construed to permit or authorize public
intoxication. (Ord. 2009-08, 4-6-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   H.   No block party shall be permitted to create or cause a breach of the
peace. In the event a block party creates or causes a breach of the peace as
determined by the Chief of Police or designee thereof, or any sworn law
enforcement officer, such block party shall be immediately terminated.
   I.   Prior to use of any public right of way for a block party, the permit
applicant must post a deposit with the village in an amount determined by the
Public Works Director, and obtain four (4) barricades to be utilized to
restrict and control vehicular traffic on the portion of the right of way to be
used for the party. Said deposit will be refunded to the permit applicant upon
return of the barricades without damage and removal of all litter and debris
from the right of way, including litter and debris that may have been carried
outside of the block party area by the wind or attendees. The block party
sponsor shall be responsible for the cost of repairing or replacing lost or
damaged barricades, cleanup or damage to the right of way. The deposit is not a
limit on the liability for costs or damages the block party sponsor has. The
sponsor shall execute an appropriate agreement acknowledging responsibility for
the obligations under this Agreement. (Ord. 2009-08, 4-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-
O-23, 7-1-2019)
CHAPTER 5
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose And Scope
8-5-2: Definitions
8-5-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
8-5-4: Application Fees
8-5-5: Exceptions To Applicability
8-5-6: Annual Recurring Rate
8-5-7: Aerial Facilities
8-5-8: Abandonment
8-5-9: Transfers
8-5-10: Indemnification
8-5-11: Insurance
8-5-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards, and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the Village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act, Public Act 100-0585.
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 2018-O-19, 7-16-2018)
8-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
All terms defined in this section have the meaning provided in section 10 of
the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (PA 100-0585).
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to an authority for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, which may include a request that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well
as any applicable fee for the review of such application.
AUTHORITY: A unit of local government that has jurisdiction and control for use
of public rights-of-way as provided by the Illinois Highway Code for placements
within public rights-of-way or has zoning or land use control for placements
not within public rights-of-way.
AUTHORITY UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by an authority in
public rights-of-way.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace small wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support
structure or utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the authority
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
PERMIT: A written authorization required by an authority to perform an action
or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization, including an authority.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or public utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. Right-of-way does not include authority-owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services. Applicants shall be required to
provide satisfactory proof to the Village that they meet or exceed both of
these limitations.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the authority.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
2018-O-19, 7-16-2018)
8-5-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses when located on real property and subject to administrative
review, except as provided herein regarding height exceptions or variances, but
not subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-
of-way in any zone, or 2) outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively
for commercial or industrial use.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant is required to obtain one or more permits
to collocate a small wireless facility. An application is received and
processed, and permits are issued subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The Village may reserve space on
authority utility poles for future public safety uses but a reservation of
space may not preclude the collocation of a small wireless facility unless the
Village reasonably determines that the authority utility pole cannot
accommodate both uses.
      2.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall be required to
provide the following information when seeking a permit to collocate small
wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for an authority utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type, model numbers and size for the antennas and
all other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the requirements
herein to the best of the applicant's knowledge.
   C.   Alternate Placements: With respect to an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole,
the Village may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
The Village may require the applicant to provide a written certification
describing the property rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the
alternate location does not satisfy the criteria in this paragraph.
   D.   Height Limitations: The Village shall limit the maximum height of a
small wireless facility to ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless
support structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
Subject to any applicable waiver, zoning, or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for an exception or variance and does not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances, the Village shall limit the height of
new or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated to the higher of: 1) ten feet (10') in
height above the tallest existing utility pole, other than a utility pole
supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place on the date the
application is submitted to the Village, that is located within three hundred
feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support
structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional
boundary of the Village, provided the Village may designate which intersecting
right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed utility pole or
wireless support structures shall control the height limitation for such
facility; or, 2) forty five feet (45') above ground level.
   E.   Requirements:
      1.   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities
shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for
public safety communications. A wireless provider shall install small wireless
facilities of the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable
interference with a public safety agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency. If a small wireless facility causes such interference,
and the wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by
the public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall take
all reasonable steps necessary to correct and eliminate the interference,
including, but not limited to, powering down the small wireless facility and
later powering up the small wireless facility for intermittent testing, if
necessary. The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not making a good faith
effort to remedy the problem in a manner consistent with the abatement and
resolution procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established
by the FCC including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672
through 47 CFR 90.675.
      2.   The wireless provider shall comply with requirements that are
imposed by a contract between the Village and a private property owner that
concern design or construction standards applicable to utility poles and
ground-mounted equipment located in the right- of-way.
      3.   The wireless provider shall comply with applicable spacing
requirements in applicable codes and ordinances concerning the location of
ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way if the requirements
include a waiver, zoning, or other process that addresses wireless provider
requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit granting of such
exceptions or variances.
      4.   The wireless provider shall comply with local code provisions or
regulations concerning undergrounding requirements that prohibit the
installation of new or the modification of existing utility poles in a right-
of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a waiver, zoning, or
other process that addresses requests to install such new utility poles or
modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the replacement of
utility poles.
      5.   The wireless provider shall comply with generally applicable
standards that are consistent with PA 100-0585 and adopted by the Village for
construction and public safety in the rights-of-way, including, but not limited
to, reasonable and nondiscriminatory wiring and cabling requirements, grounding
requirements, utility pole extension requirements, and signage limitations.
Such requirements shall be those contained in this Code, or those included as
conditions of permit approval at the time of permit review. The Public Works
Director and Village Engineer are authorized and directed to establish any such
required or recommended permit conditions.
      6.   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities
on Village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole. However, the antenna and support
equipment of the small wireless facility may be located in the communications
space on the Village utility pole and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise
unavailable, if the wireless provider complies with applicable codes for work
involving the top of the pole. For purposes of this subsection E6, the terms
"communications space", "communication worker safety zone", and "electric
supply zone" have the meanings given to those terms in the National Electric
Safety Code as published by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers.
      7.   The wireless provider shall comply with the applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      8.   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment, and aesthetic requirements that are identified by the
Village in an ordinance, written policy adopted by the governing board of the
authority, a comprehensive plan, or other written design plan that applies to
other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a
historic district.
      9.   Subject to the subsection titled permitted use, and except for
facilities excluded from evaluation for effects on historic properties under 47
CFR 1.1307(a)(4), the Village requires reasonable, technically feasible and
non-discriminatory design or concealment measures in a historic district or
historic landmark. Any such design or concealment measures, including
restrictions on a specific category of poles, may not have the effect of
prohibiting any provider's technology. Such design and concealment measures
shall not be considered a part of the small wireless facility for purposes of
the size restrictions of a small wireless facility. This paragraph may not be
construed to limit an authority's enforcement of historic preservation in
conformance with the requirements adopted pursuant to the Illinois State Agency
Historic Resources Preservation Act or the National Historic Preservation Act
of 1966, 54 USC section 300101 et seq., and the regulations adopted to
implement those laws.
   F.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving an
application, the Village must determine whether the application is complete and
notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the Village must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the Village fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after when all documents, information, and fees specifically
enumerated in the Village's permit application form are submitted by the
applicant to the Village. Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the
Village sends the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides
the missing information.
   G.   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as follows:
      1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the Village fails to approve or
deny the application within ninety (90) days. However, if an applicant intends
to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the
applicant must notify the Village in writing of its intention to invoke the
deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five (75) days after the
submission of a completed application. The permit shall be deemed approved on
the latter of the 90th day after submission of the complete application or the
10th day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the Village. The
receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the Village's denial
of the permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
      2.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that includes
the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the Village fails to approve or
deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days. However, if an
applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved
basis, the applicant must notify the Village in writing of its intention to
invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five (105) days
after the submission of a completed application. The permit shall be deemed
approved on the latter of the 120th day after submission of the complete
application or the 10th day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by
the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the
Village's denial of the permit request within the time limits as provided under
this chapter.
      3.   The Village shall approve an application unless the application does
not meet the requirements of this chapter. If the Village determines that
applicable codes, local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety, or the requirements of subsection E of this section require that the
utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced before the requested
collocation, approval may be conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole
or wireless support structure at the cost of the provider. The Village must
document the basis for a denial, including the specific code provisions or
application conditions on which the denial was based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the Village denies an
application. The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the Village
and resubmit the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The Village shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty
(30) days after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed
approved. However, the applicant must notify the Village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the resubmitted application. Any subsequent review
shall be limited to the deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised
application cure does not apply if the cure requires the review of a new
location, new or different structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility.
   H.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by: 1)
the express agreement in writing by both the applicant and the Village; or 2) a
local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar emergency that causes
the delay.
   I.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of a single authority shall be
allowed to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for the
collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless facilities if the
collocations each involve substantially the same type of small wireless
facility and substantially the same type of structure. If an application
includes multiple small wireless facilities, the Village may remove small
wireless facility collocations from the application and treat separately small
wireless facility collocations for which incomplete information has been
provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment or that are denied.
The Village may issue separate permits for each collocation that is approved in
a consolidated application.
   J.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the Village and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for an authority utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the applicant. The
applicant shall provide documentation to the Village evidencing its compliance
with these timelines upon request, and the failure or refusal of the applicant
to provide such documentation shall constitute grounds for voiding a permit. A
permit which is issued and for which construction is not timely implemented and
completed as required herein shall be void and of no further force or effect
after the passage of the time periods described above, without requirement of
any Village notice or due process.
   K.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period of
five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless
the Village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable codes or local code
provisions or regulations. If PA 100-0585 is repealed as provided in section 90
of the Act, renewals of permits shall be subject to the applicable authority
code provisions or regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
   L.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit applications,
supporting information, and notices by personal delivery only, with an
electronic copy of all plans and documents provided to the Village in the
format required by the Public Works Director. The Village may require that
permits, supporting information, and notices be submitted by personal delivery
at the Village's designated place of business. Fifteen (15) paper copies of all
documents submitted for permit application shall be provided at the time of
delivery of the personally delivered application. (Ord. 2018-O-19, 7-16-2018)
8-5-4: APPLICATION FEES:
   A.   Application fees are subject to the following requirements:
      1.   The Village will charge an application fee of six hundred fifty
dollars ($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless
facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure and three
hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in
an application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   The Village will charge an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section must be accompanied by the
required application fee.
      4.   The Village shall not require an application, approval, or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights- of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with the requirements under the subsection titled
application requirements; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or
replacement of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables that are
strung between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety
Codes.
However, the Village shall require a permit to work within rights-of-way for
activities that affect traffic patterns or require lane closures. Such permit
shall be required under the provisions of this Code as contemplated by the
remaining portions thereof. (Ord. 2018-O-19, 7-16-2018)
8-5-5: EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed, and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, "public utility" has the meaning
given to that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: 1)
to obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or
video service or 2) to obtain any required permission to install, place,
maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless
facilities subject to this chapter. (Ord. 2018-O-19, 7-16-2018)
8-5-6: ANNUAL RECURRING RATE:
The Village shall charge an annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless
facility on a Village utility pole located in a right-of-way that equals: a)
two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year or b) the actual, direct, and reasonable
costs related to the wireless provider's use of space on the Village utility
pole. Rates for collocation on Village utility poles located outside of a
right-of-way are not subject to these limitations, and shall be imposed by the
Village by virtue of a separate collocation agreement between the Village and a
given provider. Collocation on other Village-owned facilities shall also
require a separate collocation agreement between the Village and the provider.
(Ord. 2018-O-19, 7-16-2018)
8-5-7: AERIAL FACILITIES:
For Village utility poles that support aerial facilities used to provide
communications services or electric service, wireless providers shall comply
with the process for make-ready work under 47 USC 224 and its implementing
regulations. (Ord. 2018-O-19, 7-16-2018)
8-5-8: ABANDONMENT:
A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period of
twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned and the owner of the facility
must remove the small wireless facility within ninety (90) days after receipt
of written notice from the Village notifying the owner of the abandonment. The
notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested,
by the Village to the owner at the last known address of the owner. If the
small wireless facility is not removed within ninety (90) days of such notice,
the Village may remove or cause the removal of such facility pursuant to the
terms of its pole attachment agreement for authority utility poles or through
whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by other law for
removal and cost recovery. Any owner of such a facility shall, upon request,
provide documentation to the Village evidencing its full compliance with the
terms of this chapter, including but not limited to evidence of ongoing
operation or abandonment. (Ord. 2018-O-19, 7-16-2018)
8-5-9: TRANSFERS:
Any wireless provider operating small wireless facilities under the terms of
this chapter shall be required to provide written notice to the Village if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdictional boundary
of the Village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of
the new wireless provider and such other information as the Public Works
Director shall require. (Ord. 2018-O-19, 7-16-2018)
8-5-10: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the Village harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
authority improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and PA 100-0585. A wireless
provider shall further waive any claims that they may have against the Village
with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused,
based on any theory of liability. Under no circumstances shall the Village be
liable to a wireless provider for any lost profits, property damage,
replacement or restoration of collocated wireless provider equipment. (Ord.
2018-O-19, 7-16-2018)
8-5-11: INSURANCE:
Any wireless provider operating small wireless facilities under the terms of
this chapter shall be required to implement and maintain, at the wireless
provider's own cost and expense, the following insurance: a) property insurance
for its property's replacement cost against all risks; b) workers' compensation
insurance, as required by law; and c) commercial general liability insurance
with respect to its activities on the authority improvements or rights-of-way
to afford minimum protection limits consistent with its requirements of other
users of authority improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily
injury and property damage. The wireless provider shall name the Village as an
additional primary named insured on the commercial general liability policy,
without right of subrogation and provide certification and documentation of
inclusion of the Village in a commercial general liability policy as reasonably
required by the Village. (Ord. 2018-O-19, 7-16-2018)
TITLE 9
WATER AND WASTEWATER
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Water And Wastewater Department
9-1-2: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
9-1-3: Penalties
9-1-1: WATER AND WASTEWATER DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Established: There is hereby established for the village a combined
water and wastewater department, hereinafter referred to as "the department".
(Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
   B.   Public Works Director: The public works director ("director" for
purposes of this title) shall be in charge of and oversee the department. The
director shall be appointed by the village manager. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008;
amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Duties Of Department: The department shall be in charge of all matters
relating to the water facilities and the wastewater facilities including the
connection thereto and the extension thereof.
   D.   Records: The Illinois environmental protection agency or its authorized
representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of
the village which are applicable to the village system of user charges for the
purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to
ensure compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions, loan
agreements or rules for any state grant or loan. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-1-2: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Duly authorized employees or agents of the village shall, upon forty
eight (48) hours' notice (except in emergency cases), be permitted to enter all
properties at reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
title.
   B.   Such duly authorized employees or agents of the village shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the village holds an
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the public
water and wastewater facilities lying within said easement.
   C.   No person shall in any manner obstruct access to any meter.
   D.   In the event a customer refuses to install or maintain any equipment
required by the village, and the installation of all the required equipment is
feasible and attainable as determined by the village, the village may shut off
water and/or sewer service to the building. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-1-3: PENALTIES:
Unless another penalty is specifically provided for the violation of any
particular section hereof, any person violating any provision of this title or
any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance hereof, or any lawful
order made by a village official hereunder, shall, upon conviction, be subject
to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), plus all
costs related to remediation, restitution and prosecution, including, but not
limited to, filing fees, witness fees and attorney fees. Each day such
violation exists shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL WATER AND WASTEWATER PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Application Of Provisions
9-2-3: Connection Of Existing Structures To Water And Wastewater Facilities
9-2-4: Meters And Samplers
9-2-5: Damage To Systems Prohibited
9-2-6: Extension Of Mains
9-2-7: Access To Equipment; Inspections, Measurements And Sampling
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC 1251 et seq.), as amended
by the federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972 (Public Law 92-
500) and Public Law 93-243. All rules and regulations promulgated under
authority of the act are made a part of this title by reference.
AVERAGE DRY WEATHER FLOW: The average daily flow for the lowest three (3) month
period in the previous calendar year.
AVERAGE WET WEATHER FLOW: The average daily flow for the highest month in the
previous calendar year.
BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BASIC USER CHARGE: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from the soil, wastes and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') outside the inner face of the
building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension of the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE: The charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and stormwater or
surface water.
COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, fecal
coliform bacteria, compounds, plus additional pollutants identified in the
NPDES permit issued to the village.
DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of loan, bond, etc., outstanding.
DEPARTMENT: The combined water and wastewater department of the village.
DIRECTOR: The public works director or the designee of the village manager if a
"director" is not then acting.
DOMESTIC OR RESIDENTIAL USER: Any user of the wastewater facilities not classed
as a commercial or industrial user.
DOMESTIC WASTES, DOMESTIC WASTEWATER OR SANITARY WASTES: Wastewater derived
principally from dwellings but also includes all wastewater derived from
plumbing fixtures located in commercial or industrial users.
DWELLING OR RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT: A unit designed for occupancy by one
family.
ESTIMATED FLOW FROM DOMESTIC USERS: The estimated wastewater flow from single-
family dwellings where private water systems are used. The contribution per
dwelling unit shall be three hundred fifty (350) gallons per day.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and
from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
IEPA (ILLINOIS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY): All rules and regulations
established by the IEPA are made part of this code by reference.
INCIDENTAL REMOVAL OR INCIDENTAL TO: The removal of a constituent for which no
capital or operating or maintenance costs are expended.
INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Any nonresidential user of the wastewater treatment
facilities.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES OR INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER: The liquid wastes from industrial
processes, as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
INSPECTION MANHOLE: A forty eight inch (48") diameter or larger manhole,
installed on a user's property, which is continuously accessible for inspection
or sampling.
LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facilities of the village that:
   A.   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average
workday.
   B.   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the average dry weather
flow.
   C.   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant.
   D.   If found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the
waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
MAXIMUM WET WEATHER FLOW: The average daily flow for the maximum week in the
month used to determine the average wet weather flow.
MAY: Is permissive.
NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM): A permit or equivalent
document or requirements issued by the administrator or, where appropriate, by
the IEPA, after enactment of the federal water pollution control amendments of
1972, to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the
act.
NEW WASTEWATER SOURCE: Any source constructed after January 1, 2006. Additions
to a dwelling unit shall not be considered a new source.
NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: Shall contain the following constituents at the
strengths indicated:
BOD: Two hundred milligrams per liter (200mg/l).
SS: Two hundred forty milligrams per liter (240mg/l).
P: Phosphorus or phosphorus compounds.
P.E.: One P.E. equals one hundred (100) gallons per day.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society or corporation.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
PLUMBING FIXTURE: Any device or equipment from which wastewater is discharged.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewater from sources before introduction into
the wastewater facilities.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-fourth inch (1/4") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer owned or operated by the village.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary to maintain the capacity and performance
during the service life of the treatment facilities for which such facilities
were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement".
SIC MANUAL: The "Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Executive
Office Of The President, Office Management And Budget".
SS: Suspended solids. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater and surface water that are not
admitted intentionally.
SERVICE LIFE: The period of time during which a component of the facilities
will be capable of performing a function.
SEWERAGE FUND: The principle accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the sewerage system.
SUBSTANTIAL REMOVAL: The removal of at least eighty percent (80%).
SURCHARGE: The assessment, in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the permissible concentrations established by this title.
USEPA: The United States environmental protection agency.
UNIT OF FLOW: For billing purposes, shall be one thousand (1,000) gallons.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
USER: Any person or persons making connection to water and/or wastewater
facilities of the village. Where a single meter serves multiple users or
residential units, each use or residential unit is considered a user for the
purpose of computing fees and charges, except for administrative fees, which
shall be paid based on the number of meters.
USER CHARGE: The charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of the community. It may be a combination of the
liquid and water carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes, and dispose of
the effluent.
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge per month levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined in this
title, and shall consist of the basic user charge, the local capital cost and a
surcharge, if applicable.
WASTEWATER SOURCE OR WASTE SOURCE: Any installation, process or equipment from
which there is or may be a discharge of pollutants.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge.
WATER AND WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: A charge for the use of and the service
supplied by the water and wastewater facilities of the village. The service
charge shall consist of the user charge, the cost of any bond debt of such
facilities and such other costs as may be deemed necessary by the village.
WATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to collect,
pump, treat and distribute water to the users.
WATERCOURSE:
   A.   A natural or artificial channel for passage of water.
   B.   A running stream of water.
   C.   A natural stream, fed from permanent or natural sources, including
rivers, creeks, runs and rivulets. There must be a stream, usually flowing in a
particular direction (though it need not flow continuously), in a definite
channel having a bed or banks and usually discharging into some other stream or
body of water. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2014-10, 5-5-2014)
9-2-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Contract With User: The regulations of this title govern every user of
the village water and wastewater facilities and shall be part of the contract
between the village and every such user.
   B.   Users Outside Village Limits: No permit shall be issued for the tapping
into or use of any water main or sanitary sewer or storm sewer facility under
the jurisdiction of the village for any location outside of the corporate
limits of the village until the person or user executes a perpetual, binding
agreement to comply with and be governed by all applicable sections of this
code. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-2-3: CONNECTION OF EXISTING STRUCTURES TO WATER AND WASTEWATER FACILITIES:
   A.   Connection to both the village water and sewer supplies shall be
required (if a property within the village is within 300 feet of a water or
sewer line) in any of the following events:
      1.   Where the owner of such existing structure has received or at any
future time receives information or notice to the effect that the existing
septic system has failed or is in need of repair (to any degree except for
normal tank sludge removal) or replacement.
      2.   Where repair (to any degree except for normal tank sludge removal)
or replacement is mandated by the county or the village.
   B.   Fees to connect to the village sewer and water supply shall not apply
to any existing structure on April 1, 2006, if the connection is made within
thirty six (36) months after water and/or sewer becomes available for
connection to said premises. "Available" is defined as being within three
hundred feet (300') of the nearest property line of the property in question.
(Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-2-4: METERS AND SAMPLERS:
   A.   Water Meters:
      1.   Required:
         a.   No person shall be allowed to receive water from the village for
any purpose except fire protection without first having a proper water meter
installed to measure the amount of water consumed.
         b.   In the event a building contains more than one user, a meter is
required for each user unless the building contains only residential dwelling
units and the use of a single meter for the building is approved by the
village.
      2.   Specifications: Meters shall conform to specifications fixed by the
village as to size, capacity and construction. All meters shall be purchased
from and installed under the direction and supervision of the village.
      3.   Meter Fees:
         a.   The cost of meters and the installation thereof shall be borne by
the user. The cost shall be termed the "meter fee" and shall be paid at the
time application is made for a building permit.
         b.   Meter fees shall be established from time to time by the village
board and shall be sufficient to include the cost of the meter and
installation, maintenance and replacement thereof.
         c.   Meter fees shall not be refunded.
      4.   Testing Meters: A user may request a meter test to verify that the
meter is recording water usage under accepted standards of tolerances. An
additional charge will be assessed to the user making the request if the meter
is proven to be recording water usage within accepted standards and tolerances.
      5.   Installation Of Equipment Near Meters: No accessories or equipment,
other than the equipment identified and on file with the public works
department, shall be installed within twelve inches (12") of either side or in
front of the water meter.
   B.   Flow Meters:
      1.   Required: Any user except a residential user may be required to
install a flow meter in the inspection manhole to accurately measure and record
the rate of discharge and the volume of wastewater discharged to a public
sanitary sewer.
      2.   Permanent Installation: Flow meters shall be a permanent
installation and shall include equipment to accurately indicate, record and
totalize the flow and shall be approved by the village prior to installation.
      3.   Location: The equipment required to indicate, record and total the
flow shall be located in a warm, dry, location and be accessible for reading.
      4.   Yearly Recalibration: The equipment shall be recalibrated a minimum
of once a year and a certificate of calibration filed with the village.
      5.   Monthly Records: The user shall submit flow records to the village
monthly.
   C.   Samplers: Each industrial user and such other users except residential
shall be required to sample the wastewater. The frequency of sampling shall be
determined by the village. The minimum frequency of sampling shall not be less
than once a year.
   D.   Water Meters On Private Water Supply:
      1.   Required; Waiver: Whenever any portion of water pumped from a
private water supply is discharged to the wastewater facilities of the village,
a meter shall be installed to measure the amount of water pumped from the
private water supply. Wastewater bills shall be based on the amount of water
pumped unless flow meters are approved as herein provided. Where flow meters
are approved, the meter requirement may be waived by the village board.
      2.   Cost To Owner; Specifications: All meters installed on private water
supplies shall be purchased and owned by the user and shall conform to all of
the requirements of this code.
      3.   Repairs: No person shall remove a private meter for the purpose of
having it repaired. All meters shall be repaired through the village. If a
replacement meter is not available, the charges for the period for which no
meter was in service shall be based on the average use for a previous
comparable period as determined by the village.
      4.   Tampering With Piping Or Meter Prohibited: No person shall alter the
water supply piping from a private well to the meter after the installation of
the meter has been approved without having a permit from the village. No person
shall tamper with the meter. Any person violating this subsection D4 shall be
subject to immediate termination of service. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-2-5: DAMAGE TO SYSTEMS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, equipment or
property of the water or wastewater facilities.
   B.   No unauthorized person shall repair, remove or replace any equipment,
appurtenance or property of the water and wastewater facilities.
   C.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to
immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct and shall pay the cost of
restoring the equipment. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-2-6: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
   A.   Application For Extension: No person shall uncover, make any connection
with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sanitary sewer or water
main of the village for the purpose of extending same without first making
application for making said extension and to have the proposed extension
approved by the village board.
   B.   Required Information: Persons desiring such extension of the water and
sewer system shall file with the village four (4) copies of the following
documents:
      1.   Detailed plans and specifications prepared by a registered
professional engineer registered in the state of Illinois.
      2.   IEPA permit application with such supporting documents required by
the IEPA, completely filled out and ready for village signature.
      3.   Detailed estimate of the cost of the extension.
   C.   Documents Required Subsequent To Approval: After approval of the plans
and specifications by the village engineer and receipt of an IEPA permit, the
following documents shall be submitted prior to starting the extension:
      1.   Agreement and bond executed by the permittee agreeing to make and
install the improvements in accordance with the plans and specifications,
specifying a completion date not more than six (6) months after the date of the
agreement unless the village board determines, on the basis of the
recommendation of the village engineer, that a longer time is necessary. The
guarantee for completion of the improvements by the permittee shall be in the
principal amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost as
approved by the village engineer, and secured by either:
         a.   A certificate of deposit with or an escrow account at a federally
insured bank or savings and loan association subject to draw by the village to
complete the improvements if they are not completed within the prescribed time
limit.
         b.   A clean, nondeclining, irrevocable letter of credit issued by a
federally insured bank or savings and loan association. The letter shall be
approved by the village and shall provide that funds may be drawn only by the
village. The bond shall remain in effect for a period of one year after
acceptance of the work by the village engineer as a guarantee of good faith of
the permittee to correct defects. At the discretion of the village board, the
bond may be reduced during the maintenance period.
      2.   Copies of all permits, insurance and bonds required for street
openings or stream crossings and any other permits required by an agency having
jurisdiction.
      3.   Certificates of insurance protecting the village from any liability
or damage whatsoever from injury, including death, to any person or property.
The amount of the insurance shall be as established by the village.
   D.   Responsibility Of Applicant: The person or persons extending water or
sewer shall further agree as follows:
      1.   To pay all costs of plan review by the village engineer. Payment
shall be made to the village prior to the village signing the IEPA permit
applications. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
      2.   To pay all costs of inspection, including resident supervision, if
deemed necessary by the village engineer. The estimated cost of inspection,
approved by the village engineer, shall be deposited with the finance director
prior to the start of work and additional funds added during the work if
required. The permittee, however, shall pay only the actual costs of such
services based on standard engineering fees. At the completion of the work, any
unused portion of the amount deposited shall be returned. No interest shall be
paid on deposited funds. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
      3.   Materials and construction methods shall be in conformance with
specifications established by the village engineer.
      4.   The engineer designing the extension shall file as built drawings at
the completion of the work with the village.
   E.   Release Of Bond: The performance bond will not be released until the
following documents are filed with the clerk and approved by the village:
      1.   As built drawings: one reproducible set and two (2) sets of prints;
      2.   Release of all permits; and
      3.   Copies of all tests required by the village engineer.
      4.   The guarantee period has expired.
   F.   Denial Of Sewer Extensions: No extension shall be allowed to the
sanitary sewer system if the village board determines that the wastewater
facilities have inadequate available capacity. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-2-7: ACCESS TO EQUIPMENT; INSPECTIONS, MEASUREMENTS AND SAMPLING:
   A.   Obstructions Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall in any manner obstruct access to any valve, hydrant,
stopcock, manhole, flow measuring equipment or any other equipment necessary to
the operation of the water or wastewater facilities which is located in any
public street, alley or easement.
      2.   No person shall in any manner obstruct access to any meter or any
flow measuring equipment located in any building.
   B.   Access And Entry Powers:
      1.   The village and its employees and the Illinois environmental
protection agency shall have ready access at all reasonable times to the
premises, places or buildings where water service is supplied for the purpose
of inspecting, examining and testing the consumption, use and flow of water,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, prevent or obstruct
the village or its duly authorized agent or the Illinois environmental
protection agency in its duties hereunder. Every user of the system shall take
the same upon the conditions prescribed herein.
      2.   The duly authorized employees of the village and the Illinois
environmental protection agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this title. The village or its representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries, beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
      3.   The duly authorized employees of the village or the Illinois
environmental protection agency, bearing proper credentials, shall be permitted
to enter all private properties through which the village holds a duly
negotiated or otherwise lawful easement for the purposes of, but not limited
to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of
any portion of the waterworks lying within said easement. All entry and
subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall be done in full accordance with
the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property
involved.
   C.   Discharge Monitoring:
      1.   Inspection manholes in sanitary sewers shall be capable of being
equipped with continuous twenty four (24) hour composite sampling equipment.
      2.   When property use involves handling, sale and dispensing of
petroleum products and/or automotive fluids, all sanitary sewers serving
nondomestic uses shall include such monitoring throughout the year in a manner
secured and coordinated by the village. Additionally, any property involved in
the servicing of engine powered equipment shall install a triple basin oil
separator in the sanitary line servicing the repair area of the building. This
system shall be cleaned, serviced and inspected at least twice per year.
   D.   Safety Precautions: While performing the necessary work on private
properties under this section, the duly authorized employees of the village and
the Illinois environmental protection agency shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company or owners of the
premises, and the company or owners of the premises shall be held harmless for
injury or death to the village employees, and the village shall indemnify the
company or owner of the premises against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company or property
owners growing out of the gauging or sampling operation, except as such may be
caused by the negligence or failure of the company or property owner to
maintain the premises in a reasonably safe fashion. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 3
FEES, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Combined Water And Sewer Service Charge
9-3-2: Bills For Service; Liability Of Property Owner
9-3-3: Delinquent Charges
9-3-4: Termination Procedure
9-3-5: Reinstatement Of Service
9-3-6: Disposition Of Revenues
9-3-7: Records And Reports
9-3-1: COMBINED WATER AND SEWER SERVICE CHARGE:
   A.   Charge To Be Established Periodically By The Village Board: The village
board shall, on a periodic basis, establish rates associated with the use of
the village's potable water and sanitary sewer production, distribution,
collection and treatment systems. Said rates shall be adopted by the village
board by ordinance.
   B.   Minimum Charge Required: The village of Pingree Grove constructed its
water and sewer systems through the utilization of an Illinois environmental
protection agency (IEPA) low interest loan, which loan requires the calculation
and imposition of a minimum charge per unit of water/sewer, in order to provide
for the operation of the village's public infrastructure and repayment of the
loan. That minimum charge is established on the basis of a formula that
provides for the payment of operating expenses, debt service, capital
improvements, and replacement costs for the village's infrastructure. At each
time that the village establishes a revised rate structure, it shall evaluate
the proposed structure based upon the IEPA formula, to ensure that the
village's rates are, at minimum, equal to or greater than the rate required
under the IEPA formula.
   C.   Measurement Of Flow For Charges:
      1.   Water Charges: The volume of flow used for computing basic water
user charges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even
increments of one thousand (1,000) gallons. Meter and reading devices for
determining the volume of water shall be installed by the builder for new homes
at the builder's expense, and shall be owned and maintained by the village.
Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed, unless
service is canceled, without the consent of the village.
      2.   Sewer Charges: The volume of flow used for computing basic sewer
user charges shall also be based upon metered water consumption.
         a.   Excess Sewerage: In the event that any user operates in a fashion
as to generate more sanitary sewer discharge than water utilized at its
facility, the village may either establish an additional base monthly fee for
said user, or may require the user to install and maintain, at its sole
expense, sewage flow meters. In the event such meters are installed, then the
user's water and sewer charges shall be based upon the greater of the flow
readings on either the water or sewer flow meters.
      3.   Connection To Corresponding Utility: Any user who connects to either
the village water or sewer system shall also be required to connect to the
other corresponding utility. Any discharge into the village's sewer system
shall only be from a source derived from the village's water system, unless an
excess sewerage charge is imposed under subsection C2a of this section.
      4.   Unmetered Use: The village shall not permit unmetered use of the
water or sewer systems by any user, unless such unmetered use is solely
provided for the purpose of fire protection (and in which instance, the
structure in question shall be required to have a separate, metered water
service for uses other than fire protection).
         a.   Whenever sprinkler or fire protection service is desired,
application must be made for the privilege of installing such service. Complete
plans for installation shall be attached to such petition. When said
application is approved, a contract shall be entered into with the village for
connection from village mains to the property, which connection will be made by
and the cost of same to be paid by the user. Village water will not be admitted
into any sprinkler or fire protection service unless all pipes in connection
with such system are left exposed for inspection and pressure testing. All
connections, valves and associated devices must be in compliance with the
appropriate NFPA codes. All fire suppression systems must have the appropriate
backflow protection devices as required by the NFPA, the national plumbing code
and with the approval of the village's director of public works. No connection
of any kind whatsoever, except for fire protection, shall be taken from any
fire or sprinkler service system.
      5.   Location Outside Village Limits: In the case of any user of water or
sanitary sewer who is located in whole or in part outside the corporate limits
of the village, the flow utilized/generated by such user (as reflected on the
user's meters) shall be doubled for purposes of imposing user charges.
   D.   User Rates:
      1.   Residential Base User Rates: Residential base user rates shall be
established based upon the following table of charges, as combined water and
sewer base fee and usage rates.
 
Combined Monthly Base Fee:   $45.00
Combined Consumption Charge: $7.00 per 1,000 gallons
 
      2.   Nonresidential, Industrial and Commercial User Rates: Non-
residential, industrial and commercial base user rates shall be established
based upon the following table of charges, as combined water and sewer base fee
and usage rates.
 
Combined Monthly Base Fee:   $45.00
Combined Consumption Charge: $7.00 per 1,000 gallons
 
      3.   Water Meter Charges: All use of water meters in the Village shall be
subject to the following meter charge schedule:
 
Meter Size        Monthly Charge
1 inch or smaller No additional charge
1.5 inches        $34.00
2 inches          $42.00
3 inches          $68.00
4 inches          $120.00
6 inches          $150.00
 
For water meters of any alternate size not specified above, or for sizes larger
than six inches (6") , the monthly water meter charge shall be established by
the Public Works Director.
      4.   Application Of Monthly Base Fee: Monthly base fees shall be assessed
on a per-unit basis. For all properties, where a single meter serves more than
one unit, the account associated with the meter shall have a monthly base fee
assessed for each such unit. Applicable usage charges and applicable meter fees
shall be assessed per-meter (e.g. where one meter serves three units, three
base fees shall be payable, along with one meter fee and one usage fee). For
purposes of this section, an individual “unit” shall include any separate
residential domicile (e.g. apartment, condominium or other separately
occupiable residential space meeting applicable building codes), and shall
include any separately inhabited, leased or occupied commercial or industrial
space (e.g. separately rented or inhabited office units, warehouse units or
similar divisions).
      5.   Annual Increase In Certain Charges: The consumption charge outlined
above, and the monthly meter charge outlined above, shall be automatically
increased by the greater of two percent (2%) or the consumer price index (CPI).
This adjustment shall occur automatically, each year, on November 1 of each
year, starting on November 1, 2019 and continuing thereafter until after
completion of the November 1, 2025 rate adjustment. For purposes of this
ordinance, CPI shall be determined by using the positive increase (if any) in
the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers, for all items, for the
Chicago-Naperville-Elgin, as determined by the United States Bureau of Labor
Statistics. In determining the CPI adjustment, the Village shall evaluate the
most recent ascertainable list of twelve (12)-month consumer price index
changes for the one-year lookback period (e.g. the preceding year's November to
the current year's October, if available) and shall use the greatest calculated
twelve (12)-month adjustment in that one-year lookback as that year's Cpl.
   E.   Additional Fees For All Users:
      1.   In the event that water service is shut off for any reason, other
than for repairs to the primary water valve for the service, there shall be a
seventy five dollar ($75.00) reactivation fee at the time of reactivation . A
fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) will be charged for any reactivation
outside of the normal daily operation schedule of the Public Works Department.
Reactivation shall not occur unless all past due amounts are paid in full. The
user shall also be responsible for any costs of reactivation, including any
inspection charges.
      2.   In the event that a water bill is not paid within twenty-one (21)
days after rendition of the bill, a late payment fee of ten percent (10%) shall
apply. Utility billing accounts shall be entitled to a one-time waiver of this
late payment fee, for a single utility billing period (i.e. two months). In
addition, utility billing accounts shall be entitled to a one-time waiver of
this late payment fee, for a single utility billing period (i.e. two months),
provided that they enroll in the Village's automatic payment system for utility
billing and payment.
      3.   The rates contemplated above are for users generating normal
domestic waste concentrations. For purposes of this section, that includes
waste that has a five (5) day, twenty-degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of not more than two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/
1), and a suspended solids (SS) content of not more than two hundred forty
milligrams per liter (240 mg/1). Village approval shall be required prior to
discharge of any waste which does not fall within those parameters, and a
supplemental charge shall be established by the Public Works Director prior to
such discharge. The Public Works Director may also require the party
discharging any such waste to provide on-site pretreatment or to take other
similar steps if deemed necessary to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
the Village's wastewater system. (Ord. 2015-O-16, 6-15-2015; amd. Ord. 2019-O-
31, 9-3-2019)
9-3-2: BILLS FOR SERVICE; LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
   A.   Bimonthly Bills: The village shall render bimonthly (once every 2
months) bills for services and for all rates and charges in connection
therewith and shall collect all monies due thereon. Notwithstanding any
contrary provision of this title, all monies paid to the village shall be
credited and applied as required under title 3, chapter 6, “Village Service
Accounts”, of this code.
   B.   Multiple Water Meters: Single users with multiple water meters or flow
meters may be rendered a single bill.
   C.   Sewer Bills: Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the village
finance director on the first day of the month succeeding the period for which
the service is billed.
   D.   Liability For Service: The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof
and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for
the service furnished such premises.
   E.   Billing to Customer: Each user of water shall be required to provide
the Village with the name and contact information for the owner of the property
served by Village water service. The Village’s default shall be to bill the
owner of the property, and the owner shall be responsible for arranging for
payments of all charges imposed. Upon the owner’s request, an account may be
established in the tenant’s name and bills sent to the tenant, but the owner
and tenant shall be jointly and severally liable pursuant to subsection (D)
above. In the event that the tenant is listed on the account, the tenant may
obtain a final read, pay the final bill and be removed from the account, all
with the owner’s consent. Alternatively, the Village reserves the right to
refuse to permit a tenant to be listed on the account, or the right to only
invoice the owner of the property, in conditions where the tenant fails to
maintain current service, pay outstanding invoices, or otherwise fails to
maintain the account in good standing.
   F.   Billing Disputes: Any dispute over a service bill must first go before
the Utility Billing Supervisor. The customer, prior to the due date of the
disputed bill, shall contact the Utility Billing Supervisor in writing stating
why all or part of the bill is being disputed and the basis for the dispute.
Within three (3) business days after receipt of the customer’s written notice,
the Village shall schedule an informal meeting with the customer. Within five
(5) business days after the meeting, the Village shall notify the customer, in
writing, of its decision. If the customer objects to the decision, a formal
hearing may be requested before the Village Manager. The request for a hearing
must be made in writing within five (5) business days of receipt of the
decision from the Village. The hearing shall be held within ten (10) business
days of receipt of the hearing request. The decision of the Village Manager
shall be final. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2012-06, 4-16-
2012; Ord. 2015-O-16, 6-15-2015; Ord. 2019-O-15, 5-20-2019; Ord. 2022-O-09, 4-
4-2022)
9-3-3: DELINQUENT CHARGES:
In the event the charges for service are not fully paid within twenty one (21)
days after the rendering of the bill for such service, such charges shall be
deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent, and thereafter, such
delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the real estate for which such
service is supplied, subject to compliance with the provisions described in
this section.
   A.   Lien Provisions:
      1.   Upon or after the date at which a water bill becomes delinquent as
described above, the village clerk or a designee thereof shall send to the
owner of record of the real estate, at the address indicated on the most recent
ascertainable tax records for the property (based upon the PIN thereof): a) a
copy of each delinquency notice and/or past due bill sent to the property or
the person responsible for paying the utility bills therefor (and such other
information as may be necessary to inform the owner of record of the delinquent
bills outstanding); and b) a notice that unpaid charges or rates may become a
lien on the property.
      2.   At any time after dispatching the notice to the owner, the village
clerk or a designee thereof shall cause to be prepared and recorded with the
county recorder's office a notice of lien, which notice shall be a sworn
statement and shall include the following information: a) a description of the
real estate sufficient for its identification (e.g., legal description); b) the
amount of money due as a result of utility service; c) the date when each
amount became delinquent; and d) the authority of the village to impose a lien
pursuant to this chapter and section 5/11-139-8 of the Illinois municipal code.
The village clerk or a designee thereof may file such additional liens as may
thereafter be appropriate from time to time, after the provision of additional
notice to the owner of record. The costs described in each such lien shall
include all charges or expenses incurred by the village in delivering the
utility service and in preparing and filing the lien.
      3.   The village manager shall be authorized to direct the village
attorneys, at any time, to file suit to foreclose upon any liens filed under
this chapter, or to file a civil action against the occupant or user of the
property in question, to recover the amounts due the village. Any such action
shall also seek the award of court costs, legal fees, and other expenses
incurred by the village in prosecuting the delinquent account or otherwise in
seeking payment therefor. Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges may be
sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied
to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the
village, or by the above referenced statutory procedure.
      4.   Upon the entry of a judgment in favor of the village in an action
filed under subsection A3 of this section or upon the payment of all sums due
in satisfaction of the delinquent account and all related village expenses, the
village shall tender to the property owner, at the address described in
subsection A1 of this section, a release of lien. (Ord. 2008-45, 11-17-2008)
9-3-4: TERMINATION PROCEDURE:
In the event that utility service charges are not fully paid within twenty one
(21) days after the rendering of the bill for such service, the village shall
send a reminder notice with a ten percent (10%) penalty fee assessed. In the
event that utility service charges are not paid within ten (10) days after the
date of mailing of the reminder notice, the disconnection process shall begin.
A disconnection notice will be posted onto the residence in a prominent place
to be displayed for the attention of the occupant. The occupant will have five
(5) days from the posting of the disconnection notice to pay all amounts due to
the village or services will be disconnected. A reconnection fee of seventy
five dollars ($75.00) shall be charged in the event of disconnection. This fee
must be paid before service is restored. Reconnections are performed Monday
through Friday from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to two o'clock (2:00) P.M., or at
such time as the village director of public works shall later designate.
Connections performed outside of these hours are charged one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00). The occupant or designee must be home in order to reconnect
service.
Service shall not be reinstated until all outstanding amounts due to the
village have been paid in full, including the seventy five dollar ($75.00)
reconnection fee if applicable. The reminder notice relating to the
disconnection or reconnection of utility service shall be in a form and content
acceptable to the village finance director, and the fees associated with the
termination, reconnection or processing terminations shall be set by the
village board from time to time. The fees outlined herein may be amended by the
village board through the adoption of an update to the village's unified fee
schedule, without requirement of directly amending this section. (Ord. 2015-O-
32, 11-2-2015)
9-3-5: REINSTATEMENT OF SERVICE:
   A.   Upon payment to the village of the full delinquency, plus costs of
termination and applicable administrative or reinstatement fees (which fees
shall be subject to adjustment from time to time by the village manager or
administrator), and upon deposit with the village of an amount equal to the
estimated user charges for one billing period, the village will reinstate the
service or issue a permit for the service to be reinstated. All payments shall
be credited per title 3, chapter 6, "Village Service Accounts", of this code.
(Ord. 2012-06, 4-16-2012)
   B.   If a permit is issued to reinstate the service, the owner of the
premises or the occupant and user of the service shall pay all costs necessary
to reinstate the service, including inspection and supervision costs incurred
by the village.
   C.   The user shall continue to pay the charges assessed hereunder by the
village thereafter as billed, and after ten (10) billing periods of prompt
payment of such charges with no delinquency in excess of thirty (30) days, the
deposit shall be refunded to the person having made such deposit, without
interest thereon.
   D.   Upon payment of the fees and reinstatement of service, the red tag from
the building shall be removed, and the building shall, so far as the village is
concerned, be fit for human occupancy.
   E.   In order for the village to reinstate service, the property owner or a
representative of the property owner must be present. (Ord. 2009-18, 6-15-2009)
9-3-6: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
All revenues and monies derived from water and sewer charges shall be held by
the finance director in the water and sewerage accounts, respectively. All such
revenues shall be held separate and apart from all other funds of the village,
and all of said sum, without any deductions whatsoever, shall be delivered to
the village finance director not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the
same or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by
the village board of trustees. The village finance director shall receive all
such revenues from the water and sewerage system and all other funds and monies
incident to the operation of such system as the same may be delivered to him,
and deposit the same in the account of the fund designated as the "water fund
of the village of Pingree Grove" and the "sewerage fund of the village of
Pingree Grove", respectively. The finance director shall administer such fund
in every respect in the manner provided by statute in the Illinois municipal
code. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
9-3-7: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Accounts And Records: The village finance director shall also maintain
records relating to the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing the water
facilities and wastewater facilities, and pertaining to the charges or payments
associated therewith. The finance director shall establish a proper system of
accounts and shall keep books, records and accounts in which complete and
correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water and
sewerage system and, at regular annual intervals, shall cause to be made an
audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the water and sewerage system. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008; amd.
2011 Code)
   B.   Annual Audit Report: In addition to the customary operating statements,
the annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses
of the water and wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to
indicate that water and sewer service charges under the waste cost recovery
system do in fact meet these regulations. In this regard, the financial
information to be shown in the audit report shall include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Flow data showing the total output of the combined water plants for
the current fiscal year.
      3.   Debt service for the next fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to each system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users of each system.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 4
WATER FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Connection To Public Facilities; Costs
9-4-2: Private Water Supply
9-4-3: Tapping Water Mains
9-4-4: Service Pipes
9-4-5: Fire Hydrants
9-4-6: Authority To Shut Off Water
9-4-7: Conservation Measures
9-4-8: Discontinuing Service
9-4-1: CONNECTION TO PUBLIC FACILITIES; COSTS:
   A.   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now
located a public water main may make connection to the public water main within
one hundred twenty (120) days after notice that the water main is available.
The owner shall pay all costs of connection, including recapture fees, if
applicable.
   B.   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which a public
water main is within three hundred feet (300') of the nearest property line of
the property may extend the public water main to and across the frontage of the
property and make connection as herein provided. If such water main extension
benefits other properties, the village shall make best efforts to collect and
return to the owner amounts received from benefited properties.
   C.   After connection to the public water supply, the private water supply
shall be physically disconnected from the building water piping connected to
the public water supply. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-4-2: PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Whenever a public water main is not available, as provided in this
title, the building service pipe shall be connected to a private water supply
complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Whenever an industrial user requires water for industrial purposes and
the village determines that the village water facilities have inadequate
capacity to provide the pressure, volume or rate flow required by said
industry, the user may be required to install a private water supply. Provided,
however, the private water supply shall not be used for any purpose except for
industrial purposes, and no cross connection shall be made to the public water
supply.
   C.   A private water supply shall not be used for domestic purposes for any
building except a single-family residence. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-4-3: TAPPING WATER MAINS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall make a connection to the water
facilities of the village without first making application for the privilege of
making said connection and to have a written permit paid all applicable fees.
   B.   Conditions Of Permit Issuance: No permit will be issued until the
permittee:
      1.   Pays the tapping fee as set out in subsection C of this section.
      2.   Pays the cost of the meter and installation thereof 1 .
      3.   Secures a street opening permit, if required.
      4.   Agrees to pay all costs of the installation of said service.
      5.   Agrees to give a minimum of twenty four (24) hours' notice prior to
the start of the installation of the service and when the service shall be
ready for inspection; except, that no inspections shall be made at times other
than during regular village working hours.
      6.   Agrees that the materials used and the method of installation shall
be in conformance with specifications established by ordinance or other codes.
      7.   Agrees to pay all costs of inspection and testing if inspection in
excess of the inspection and testing normally provided by the village is deemed
necessary by the village manager or designee.
      8.   Agrees to secure and protect the village from any liability or
damage whatsoever for injury (including death) to any person or property and
files with the clerk liability insurance certificates. The amount of the
insurance shall be established by the village board. (Ord. 2009-18, 6-15-2009)
   C.   Fees 2 :
      1.   Required; Payment: Water tapping fees shall be charged for
connecting or tapping into the water facilities. Said fees shall be paid at the
time of application for building permit. (Ord. 2009-18, 6-15-2009; amd. 2011
Code)
      2.   Inside Village Limits: Water tapping fees for plats approved (unless
otherwise required under the terms of an applicable annexation/development
agreement during the term of said agreement) are as follows:
Residential         $825.00/P.E.
Commercial/industrial:
 1 inch                3,000.00
 11/2 inch             3,500.00
 2 inch                4,000.00
 21/2 inch             5,000.00
 3 inch                6,000.00
 31/2 inch             7,000.00
 4 inch                8,000.00
 41/2 inch             9,000.00
 5 inch                10,000.00
 51/2 inch             11,000.00
 6 inch                12,000.00
 
      3.   Outside Village Limits: The water tapping fee for any use not
located within the corporate limits of the village shall be three (3) times the
applicable tapping fee specified in subsection C2 of this section. (Ord. 2009-
18, 6-15-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-4-2 of this code.
2 2. See also subsection
  10-4-1B of this code.
9-4-4: SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Water Service Pipe:
      1.   The water service pipe extends from the village water main to and
includes the curb stopcock which shall be located in a street or an easement.
      2.   The pipe, valves and fittings used for the service pipe shall be as
specified by the village. The user may make the service pipe tap to the water
main, or the village may allow the user's contractor to make the connection
under the supervision of the director of public works.
      3.   The permittee shall pay all costs of installing the service
including such material and services provided by the village. The village shall
maintain only the water service pipe.
   B.   Building Service Pipe:
      1.   The building service pipe extends from the curb stopcock to the
building and shall be installed by the user at his expense. The building
service pipe shall be the same size and same material as the water service pipe
and shall be inspected by the village.
      2.   Persons taking water must do so at their own expense, and must keep
the building service pipe in good repair, protect it from frost or damage in
any other manner and prevent all unnecessary waste of water. It shall be the
duty of the user to maintain the building service pipe from the curb stopcock
to the house. If the user fails to properly maintain the building service pipe,
the village shall have the authority to enter onto the property and provide
maintenance as required and bill for the cost of said maintenance on the next
water bill or shut the water off until proper maintenance is completed.
   C.   Separate Services Required: A separate water service pipe is required
for every building or residence. Where a building contains more than one
commercial or industrial use or where the building contains a combination of
commercial or industrial and residential uses, there shall be separate services
for each use if required by the village. A single meter is allowed only in
buildings for residential use. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-4-5: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Opening Hydrants; Damage Prohibited: All hydrants constructed for the
purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to be public hydrants. No
persons other than members of a fire protection district and those authorized
by the village shall open any such hydrant or attempt to draw water from same
or in any manner interfere with or injure any of such hydrants.
   B.   Obstruction Prohibited: No person shall obstruct the use of any fire
hydrant or place any material in front thereof. Any material forming such
obstruction may be removed by the village or by the fire protection district.
The cost of removal shall be borne by the property owner thereof.
   C.   Wrenches: No person shall use any water hydrant wrenches without the
permission of the village.
   D.   Temporary Use: Any person wishing to make a connection to a hydrant as
a temporary source of water for construction or other approved purposes shall
make application to the village no less than forty eight (48) hours in advance
to request a hydrant meter. The user shall make a deposit equal to the
replacement cost of the meter which shall be refunded when the meter is
returned. The meter will be read on installation and again on disconnection,
and the user will be billed at the current rate for water use. The user shall
be responsible for the meter and usage. The deposit will not be returned until
all payments have been made. Meters will be supplied as available on a week to
week basis. The village shall install and remove the meter. It will be a
violation of terms to use the meter without attached RPZ. The village reserves
the right to restrict or rescind the use of the hydrant meter or charge a usage
rate equivalent to three (3) times (300 percent) the normal usage rate whenever
water conservation rates are in effect.
   E.   Large Bulk Users: Large bulk users are required to fill at a single
designated hydrant located on the water treatment facility property. All large
bulk users are required to maintain a physical air gap between the fill hose
and tank. (Ord. 2009-18, 6-15-2009)
9-4-6: AUTHORITY TO SHUT OFF WATER:
In the case of making repairs or alterations or constructing new facilities, or
for any other reason, the village reserves the right to shut off the water as
long as may be necessary to make such repairs, alterations or the construction
of new facilities. No claim shall be made against the village by reason of the
above or by reason of the breakage or failure of any pump or other portion of
the water system. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-4-7: CONSERVATION MEASURES:
   A.   Outdoor Use Limitations: In order to promote public environmental
awareness, good husbandry, good conservation practices and to preserve potable
water supplies, the use of the village potable water for outdoor watering of
landscape and lawns is limited as follows:
      1.   Condition Green: Condition green shall allow the outside use of the
village potable water supply. Condition green shall be the normal operating
condition in the absence of a proclamation by the village in accordance with
subsection A2 of this section.
      2.   Restrictions: Whenever, in the village's judgment, it is in the
public interest to further curtail the use of potable water for landscape and
lawn watering purposes, in light of environmental exigencies or water supply
availability, the president or his designee may further restrict the use of
potable water for such purposes by proclaiming the following restrictive
conditions:
         a.   Condition Yellow: Condition yellow shall allow the outside use of
the village potable water supply for landscaping and lawn watering only on
alternate days, except between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) P.M., during which time said use is prohibited. Lots with odd
numbered addresses will be permitted to use potable water outside on odd
numbered days, and lots with even numbered addresses will be permitted to use
potable water outside on even numbered days.
         b.   Condition Red: Condition red shall prohibit the use of outside
potable water for residential hand washing of motor vehicles, landscape and
lawn watering purposes entirely.
         c.   Notice Of Proclamation: Upon issuing any proclamation, the
village president shall make the contents thereof known to the public by news
release to the local newspapers and may also notify the citizens in any other
practical manner that he or she shall devise. Further, the village president
shall immediately notify all members of the village board of trustees of the
nature of the emergency and the regulations that have been imposed.
      3.   Signs Posted: The village shall cause signs to be posted in
conspicuous public places throughout the village, advising residents of the
watering conditions then in effect.
   B.   Rates During Conservation Months: During the months of June, July and
August, consumption charges may, in the discretion of the village board be
increased three (3) times the combined rate per one thousand (1,000) gallons
for all water consumed above eighteen thousand (18,000) gallons.
   C.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any portion of this
section between May 15 and September 15 of any calendar year shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation continues or
persists shall be deemed a separate offense. During condition red status, as
defined in subsection A2b of this section, a fine shall be levied at any time
during the year that a violation occurs. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-4-8: DISCONTINUING SERVICE:
Any person moving from or within the village shall give written notice to the
village for final meter reading. Otherwise, the user shall be liable for the
charge for the ensuing water billing period. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 5
WASTEWATER FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Use Of Public Facilities
9-5-2: Private Wastewater Treatment Facilities
9-5-3: Connection To Public Facilities
9-5-4: Building Sewers
9-5-5: Permitted Wastes
9-5-6: Prohibited Wastes
9-5-7: Interceptors
9-5-8: Pretreatment
9-5-9: User Charge
9-5-10: Authority To Limit Discharges
9-5-1: USE OF PUBLIC FACILITIES:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon
public or private property within village, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the village, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharge Into Watercourses: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
watercourse within the village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
village, any untreated sanitary sewage, industrial wastes or polluted waters.
   C.   Private Systems: It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault or cesspool intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Connection To Public System:
      1.   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties situated within
the village and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is
located a public sewer may make connection to the public sewer within one
hundred twenty (120) days after notice that the public sewer is available. The
owner shall pay all costs of connection, including recapture fees, if
applicable.
      2.   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties situated within
the village and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which a public
sewer is within three hundred feet (300') of the nearest property line of the
property may extend the public sewer to and across the frontage of the property
and make connection as herein provided. If such public sewer benefits other
properties, the village may, but need not, make best efforts to collect and
return to the owners amounts received from benefited properties. (Ord. 2008-13,
4-7-2008)
9-5-2: PRIVATE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES:
   A.   Discharging To Watercourse Prohibited: No person shall construct a
wastewater treatment facility within the village, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the village, for the purpose of treating wastewater and
discharging same to a watercourse.
   B.   Industrial Wastes: No person shall construct a wastewater treatment
facility within the corporate limits of the village for the purpose of treating
industrial wastes unless the village board determines that the existing
wastewater treatment facilities have inadequate capacity and issues a permit
for the construction and operation of a wastewater treatment facility. No
village permit shall become effective until:
      1.   An IEPA permit to construct and operate the facility has been
received.
      2.   An NPDES permit has been received.
      3.   The village engineer has approved the plans and specifications in
writing.
      4.   The guarantee period has expired.
   C.   Subsurface Disposal:
      1.   No person shall construct a private wastewater treatment facility
with subsurface disposal of the effluent if the population to be served exceeds
ten (10) persons or the system is intended to serve more than one building.
      2.   Where a public sewer is not available, a private wastewater
treatment facility employing subsurface absorption facilities may be installed,
if the wastewater to be treated is from a residence.
      3.   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater
treatment facility employing subsurface absorption facilities, the owner shall
first obtain a written permit. The applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as deemed necessary. A permit and
inspection fee shall be paid at the time the application is filed, and shall be
in such amount as the village may from time to time determine. The permit shall
not be issued until applicable county permits are on file with the village.
      4.   A permit for a private wastewater treatment facility employing
subsurface absorption facilities shall not become effective until the
installation is completed to the satisfaction of the village. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-
7-2008)
9-5-3: CONNECTION TO PUBLIC FACILITIES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct a new wastewater source and
connect same to the wastewater facilities of the village without first making
application for the privilege of making said connection and to have a written
permit and to pay all fees.
   B.   Wastewater Information Required: Persons desiring to construct a waste
source and connect to the wastewater facilities of the village shall, in
addition to making application, state the quantity, quality and rate of
discharge of the wastewater to be discharged into the sewer.
   C.   Conditions Of Permit Issuance: No permit will be issued until the
permittee: (Ord. 2009-18, 6-15-2009)
      1.   Pays the applicable connection fee as set out in subsection D of
this section. (Ord. 2009-18, 6-15-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   Secures a street opening permit, if required.
      3.   Agrees to pay all costs of the installation including the connection
to the public sewer, if required.
      4.   Agrees to give twenty four (24) hours' notice prior to the start of
any underground piping and when the underground piping will be ready for
inspection.
      5.   Agrees that the materials used and the method of installation shall
be in conformance with specifications established by the village engineer.
      6.   Agrees to pay all costs of inspection.
      7.   Agrees to conform to all rules and regulations of the Illinois state
plumbing code.
      8.   Agrees to secure and protect the village from any liability or
damage whatsoever for injury, including death, to any person or property and
files liability insurance certificates.
      9.   Secures an IEPA permit if the wastewater:
         a.   Is domestic and the volume to be discharged is more than one
thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons per day (gpd); or
         b.   Is industrial.
      10.   Secures a building permit if the new waste source is new equipment
to be installed within an existing building.
      11.   Agrees to conform to all applicable village ordinances. (Ord. 2009-
18, 6-15-2009)
   D.   Fees 1 :
      1.   Fees shall be charged for constructing a wastewater source and
connecting it to the wastewater facilities of the village as provided by
ordinance or resolution and as follows: (Ord. 2009-18, 6-15-2009; amd. 2011
Code)
 
Residential fee           $1,500.00/P.E.
Commercial/industrial fee 1,200.00/P.E.
 
      2.   For uses involving extra strength wastewater:
         a.   For wastewater the strength of which exceeds normal residential
wastewater in any constituent, if allowed by the village board, there shall be
charged a surcharge computed at the time that connection is requested.
         b.   Where the volume and strength of the wastewater to be discharged
to the public sanitary sewers is not known at the time of the connection, the
fee shall be estimated and adjusted to reflect actual conditions during the
billing period just prior to a full year of operation.
         c.   The volume and strength of the wastewater for fee purposes shall
be the maximum daily discharge of constituents.
         d.   Where a connection is made based on the applicant's statement
that the strength of the wastewater does not exceed normal domestic wastewater
in any constituent, and at the end of the billing period just prior to a full
year of operation, it is determined that the wastewater does exceed domestic
wastewater in strength, the village board may accept or reject the wastes.
      3.   The tapping fee for any use not located within the corporate limits
of the village shall be three (3) times the applicable tapping fee specified in
subsection D1 of this section.
   E.   Restrictions And Requirements:
      1.   No connection will be allowed to the wastewater facilities if the
village board determines:
         a.   That the wastewater facilities have inadequate treatment or
delivery capacity; or
         b.   That the wastewater contains incompatible wastes in excess of
that allowed by this chapter; or
         c.   That the wastewater contains inadmissible substances; or
         d.   That the strength, volume or rate of discharge of a compatible
waste from a single source or class of users alters substantially the operation
of the wastewater facilities.
      2.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this title, this chapter
hereby prohibits any connections from inflow sources into the sanitary sewer
portions of the sewer system and shall ensure that new sewers and connections
to the sewer system are properly designed and constructed. This chapter also
requires:
         a.   Pretreatment of any industrial wastes which would otherwise be
detrimental to the wastewater treatment works or its proper efficient operation
and maintenance or will otherwise prevent entry of such wastes into the
wastewater treatment works.
         b.   Compliance with 35 Illinois administrative code 310 (pretreatment
programs).
         c.   Prohibition of the introduction of industrial waste into the
sewer system until title 35, subtitle C, chapter II of the Illinois
administrative code, section 365.920 (user charges) are met. (Ord. 2009-18, 6-
15-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  10-4-1B of this code.
9-5-4: BUILDING SEWERS:
   A.   Permit Required: No addition to or alteration of any building sewer
shall be made or caused to be made by any person without a permit.
   B.   Separate Sewers Required: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building, except where one building stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building.
   C.   Old Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection with new
buildings only when they are found, on examination and test, to meet all
requirements of a new building sewer.
   D.   Location; Specifications:
      1.   Whenever possible the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
      2.   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet
(3') of any bearing wall.
      3.   No building sewers shall be installed in any place where they may be
subject to freezing temperatures unless adequate provisions are made to protect
them from frost.
      4.   Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe
and fittings, or a manhole.
   E.   Lift Station: In all buildings in which any building drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer.
   F.   Maintenance Of Building Sewer: Persons connected to the sanitary sewer
system through a building sewer shall maintain said building sewer in good
repair, protect it from damage in any manner and prevent the entrance of
uncontaminated waters. If the user fails to properly maintain the building
sewer, the village shall have the authority to enter onto the property to
maintain the sewer and add the cost of said maintenance on the next sewer use
bill or terminate the service until proper maintenance is completed.
   G.   Inspection Manhole: All industrial users and such other users, except
domestic users, as may be determined by the village, shall install an
inspection manhole on the building sewer. Said manhole shall be located
conveniently in the public right of way or easement. The manhole shall be a
minimum of forty eight inches (48") in diameter and shall be equipped with such
measuring and sampling equipment as may be required by the village. (Ord. 2008-
13, 4-7-2008)
9-5-5: PERMITTED WASTES:
   A.   The following wastes are admissible to the wastewater facilities of the
village:
      1.   Any compatible pollutant; except, that the strength, volume and rate
of flow of the waste may be regulated.
      2.   Any incompatible pollutant which is identified in the NPDES permit
received by the village; except, that the total from all sources may not exceed
the amount allowed under the NPDES permit.
      3.   Any incompatible pollutant for which an effluent standard has been
established by the IEPA; provided, that:
         a.   The aggregate total from all sources shall not exceed the total
allowable to the wastewater treatment facilities based on the average dry
weather flow. It is assumed that there will be no removal of the incompatible
waste in the treatment facilities.
         b.   The concentration of the incompatible waste discharged from any
source shall not exceed two (2) times the concentration allowed in the
wastewater treatment facility effluent.
         c.   The concentration of the incompatible waste in the wastewater
treatment facility shall not exceed the maximum allowed by the IEPA.
         d.   The concentration of the incompatible waste will not adversely
affect the stream standards established for the village discharge stream.
      4.   Cooling water or other uncontaminated industrial process water.
   B.   The village may from time to time establish maximum concentrations of
various pollutants in the wastewater treatment facility effluent. (Ord. 2008-
13, 4-7-2008)
9-5-6: PROHIBITED WASTES:
The following wastes shall not be introduced into the wastewater facilities of
the village:
   A.   Wastes which interfere with the operation of the wastewater facilities.
   B.   Any cyanide or cyanogen compound.
   C.   Mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligrams per
liter as Hg at any time.
   D.   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff and subsurface
drainage.
   E.   Uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters.
   F.   Wastes which may create a fire or explosion hazard in the wastewater
facilities.
   G.   Wastes which will cause corrosive structural damage to the wastewater
facilities.
   H.   Wastes with a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0.
   I.   Solid or viscous wastes in amounts which would cause obstructions to
flow in sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the
wastewater facilities.
   J.   Wastes at a flow rate and/or pollutant discharge rate which is
excessive over relatively short time periods so there is a treatment process
upset and subsequent loss of treatment efficiency. Provided, however, that
concentration of any given constituent or quantity of flow shall not exceed
five (5) times the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during
normal operation for any period exceeding fifteen (15) minutes.
   K.   Any compatible waste, the strength of which exceeds normal domestic
wastewater in any constituent except as permitted by the village board.
   L.   Any waste containing more than one hundred milligrams per liter (100mg/
l) of fats, oils or grease.
   M.   The discharge of garbage into the wastewater facilities by any user
(except discharge of a domestic residential user from a conventional garbage
disposal).
   N.   Any liquid having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F).
   O.   Any wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor producing
substances in such concentrations exceeding limits established by the village
board.
   P.   Any wastes which will cause discoloration such as, but not limited to,
dye wastes or printing inks.
   Q.   Any wastes which, alone or in combination with other wastes, will cause
the violation of any effluent or stream standards established by the IEPA.
(Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-5-7: INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   A grease interceptor (trap) shall be installed if the grease content of
the wastewater exceeds one hundred milligrams per liter (100mg/l). The grease
trap shall be located so it may be readily cleaned and inspected. Each grease
trap shall be sized so it will continuously produce an effluent containing less
than one hundred milligrams per liter (100mg/l) of fats, oils or grease. Each
grease trap shall be properly maintained at no cost to the village. A permit is
required for a grease interceptor.
   B.   An oil or sand interceptor shall be installed to prevent the entrance
of sand, or similar granular material, or oil into the wastewater facilities of
the village. Said interceptor shall be properly constructed and continuously
maintained by the user. A separate fee and permit may be required for each oil
or sand interceptor.
   C.   Equipment and devices installed under this section shall not be
considered to provide pretreatment to the wastewater. No special operation
permits or operating data shall be required. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-5-8: PRETREATMENT:
   A.   Any user discharging or proposing to discharge any wastewater into the
wastewater facilities of the village which contains substances or possesses the
characteristics enumerated in this chapter and/or which are in violation of the
standards established by the IEPA or USEPA shall provide pretreatment of the
wastewater to an acceptable condition for discharge to the wastewater
facilities. All required permits shall be filed with the village prior to
construction of the pretreatment facilities.
   B.   Any user discharging or proposing to discharge a compatible waste, the
strength of which exceeds normal domestic waste in any constituent, shall
install a pretreatment facility if required by the village. If pretreatment is
required, it shall apply uniformly to all users within the industry number.
   C.   Any user proposing to construct a pretreatment facility shall have the
plans and specifications approved in writing by the village engineer and an
IEPA permit prior to receiving a permit by the village.
   D.   Any user proposing to operate a pretreatment facility shall comply with
all requirements of the IEPA and shall submit such operating data as may be
required by the village. (Ord. 2008-13, 4-7-2008)
9-5-9: USER CHARGE 1 :
   A.   Policy: It is hereby declared that the policy of the village is:
      1.   The village shall adhere to the requirements of title 40,
"protection of the environment", chapter 1, "environmental protection agency",
subchapter B, "grants", part 35, "state and local assistance, final grant
regulations", and all subsequent enactments and regulations issued pursuant to
the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended from time to time.
      2.   No funds for the operation and maintenance of the wastewater
facilities shall be derived from the use of an ad valorem tax.
      3.   No charge will be made for any inadmissible waste.
      4.   Where the removal of any constituent is incidental to the treatment
process, no charge will be made for that constituent.
      5.   All wastes, the strength of which does not exceed normal domestic
waste in any constituent, shall, for billing purposes, be considered to be
normal domestic wastes. Use charges for normal domestic wastes shall be based
on flow alone.
      6.   Charges for extra strength wastes shall be expressed in dollars per
pound of constituent in excess of normal domestic wastewater.
   B.   Summary Of Users: Annually, concurrently with the determination of the
cost of operation and maintenance, the village shall make a summary of all
users. Said summary shall include a summary of all domestic users with a
breakdown as to whether the village or a private water supply is used, a
summary of commercial users listing all such users discharging industrial
wastes and/or subject to a surcharge, and a summary of all industries listing
all such users discharging industrial wastes and/or subject to a surcharge.
Where a user discharges industrial wastes and/or is subject to a surcharge, an
estimate of the volume and strength of said wastewater shall be made. (Ord.
2008-13, 4-7-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-3-1 of this title for specific amounts.
9-5-10: AUTHORITY TO LIMIT DISCHARGES:
In case of making repairs or alterations or constructing new facilities, or for
any other reason, the village board reserves the right to limit the discharge
of wastewater to the wastewater facilities for as long as may be necessary by
giving such reasonable notice thereof as shall be practical to the user. No
claim shall be made against the village by reason of the above or by reason of
the breakage or failure of any portion of the wastewater facilities. (Ord.
2008-13, 4-7-2008)
TITLE 10
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
APPLICABILITY; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Building Commissioner
10-1-2: Applicability Of Provisions
10-1-3: Ordinary Repairs
10-1-4: Service Equipment
10-1-5: Maintenance
10-1-6: Existing Uses And Structures
10-1-7: Inspections
10-1-8: Right Of Entry
10-1-9: Violations; Penalties
10-1-1: BUILDING COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Created; Appointment; Engineer May Serve As: There is hereby created
the office of building commissioner. The building commissioner shall be
appointed by the village manager 1 . In the absence of a person specifically
designated by the village manager, the village manager shall serve as the
building commissioner.
   B.   Organization And Assistance: The building commissioner shall request
employment of technical assistants, inspectors and other employees as shall be
necessary for the administration of this title and as authorized by the village
manager. The building commissioner may designate an employee or other person to
serve as his assistant who shall exercise all his powers as so directed. (1990
Code §16.207; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Nonliability From Personal Responsibility:
      1.   The building commissioner, or officer or employee charged with the
enforcement of this title, while acting for the village, shall not thereby
render himself liable personally, and is relieved from all personal liability
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act
required or permitted in the discharge of his official duties. (1990 Code
§16.207)
      2.   Any suit instituted against any officer or employee because of an
act performed by him in the lawful discharge of his duties and under the
provisions of this title shall be defended by the village attorney until the
final termination of the proceedings. (1990 Code §16.207; amd. 2011 Code)
      3.   The building commissioner, or any of his subordinates, shall not be
liable for costs in any action, suit or proceeding that may be instituted in
pursuance of the provisions of this title; and any person acting as the
building commissioner, or anyone acting as his agent or employee, while acting
in good faith and without malice, shall be free from liability for acts
performed under any of the provisions of this title or by reason of any act or
omission in the performance of official duties in connection therewith.
   D.   General Duties: The building commissioner shall enforce, or cause to be
enforced, all the provisions of this title and shall act on any question
relative to the mode and manner of construction and the materials to be used in
the erection, addition to, alteration, repair, removal, demolition,
installation of service equipment, and the location, use, occupancy and
maintenance of all buildings and structures, except as may otherwise be
specifically provided for by statutory requirements.
   E.   Applications And Permits: The building commissioner shall receive
applications and issue permits for the erection and alteration of buildings and
structures, and inspect the premises for which such permits have been issued
and enforce compliance with the provisions of this title.
   F.   Notices And Orders: The building commissioner shall issue notices or
orders to remove illegal or unsafe conditions, to require the necessary
safeguards during construction, to require adequate exitway facilities in
existing buildings and structures, and to ensure compliance with all
requirements for the safety, health and general welfare of the public.
   G.   Inspections: The building commissioner shall make or cause to be made
all the required inspections, or may accept reports of inspections by
authorized services or individuals; and all reports of such inspection shall be
in writing and certified by a responsible officer of such authoritative service
or by the responsible individual; or may engage such expert opinion as the
building commissioner may deem necessary to report upon unusual technical
issues that may arise. (1990 Code §16.207)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  11-3-1B of this code.
10-1-2: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this title and other applicable provisions of this
code shall cover all matters affecting or relating to buildings and structures.
The provisions of this title shall apply whether or not the property, as
defined in the condominium property act, 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 605/
1 et seq., is subject to the act. (1990 Code §16.201; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   A building or structure shall not be constructed, extended, repaired,
removed or altered in violation of this title, except for ordinary repairs as
defined in section
10-1-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Any requirement essential for structural, fire or sanitary safety of an
existing or proposed building or structure, or essential for the safety of the
occupants thereof and which is not specifically covered by this title, shall be
determined by the building commissioner. The building commissioner shall have
the discretion, unless otherwise directed by the board of trustees or
prohibited by law, to waive or modify any requirement or provision of this
title if, in his opinion, the circumstances so warrant and the waiver or
modification would serve the best interests of all parties concerned.
   D.   The continuation of work thereon, occupancy or use of a building or
structure, or a part thereof, contrary to the provisions of this title shall be
deemed a violation subject to the penalties prescribed in section
10-1-9 of this chapter. (1990 Code §16.201)
10-1-3: ORDINARY REPAIRS:
Ordinary repairs to structures not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) in
any one calendar year may be made without application or notice to the building
commissioner, but such repairs shall not include the cutting away of any wall,
partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting of any structural beam or
bearing support, or the removal or change of any required means of egress or
rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting the exitway requirements; nor
shall ordinary repairs include addition to, alteration of, replacement or
relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas,
soil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric wiring or mechanical or other
work affecting public health or general safety. (1990 Code §16.202)
10-1-4: SERVICE EQUIPMENT:
When the installation, extension, alteration or repair of an elevator, moving
stairway, mechanical equipment, refrigeration, air conditioning or ventilating
apparatus, plumbing, gas piping, electric wiring, heating system or any other
equipment is specifically controlled by the provisions of this title or the
approved rules, it is unlawful to use such equipment until a certificate of
approval has been issued therefor by the building commissioner. (1990 Code
§16.203)
10-1-5: MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Required:
      1.   All buildings and structures, and all parts thereof, both existing
and new, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition.
      2.   All service equipment, means of egress, devices and safeguards which
are required by this title in a building or structure, or which were required
by a previous ordinance in a building or structure when erected, altered or
repaired, shall be maintained in good working order.
   B.   Responsibility Of Owner: The owner and his designated agent shall be
responsible for the safe and sanitary maintenance of the building or structure
and its exitway facilities at all times.
   C.   Maintenance And Use: It is unlawful to maintain, occupy or use a
building or structure, or part thereof, that has been erected, altered or added
to in violation of the provisions of this title, and no building or structure
shall be occupied unless it is in a safe, inhabitable condition as prescribed
in this title. (1990 Code §16.204)
10-1-6: EXISTING USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Existing Uses:
      1.   Continuation: The legal use and occupancy of any structure existing
on June 19, 1990, or for which it had been heretofore approved, may be
continued without change, except as may be specifically covered in this title
or in this code or as may be deemed necessary by the building commissioner for
the general safety and welfare of the occupants and the public.
      2.   Change In Use: It is unlawful to make any change in the use or
occupancy of any structure which would subject said structure to any provision
of this title without approval of the building commissioner and his
certification that such structure meets the intent of the provisions of law
governing building construction for the proposed new use and occupancy, and
that such change does not result in any greater hazard to public safety or
welfare. (1990 Code §16.205)
   B.   Existing Structures: Existing structures, when altered or required as
specified in this subsection, shall be made to conform to the full requirements
of this title for new structures. (1990 Code §16.206)
10-1-7: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Preliminary Inspection: Before issuing a permit, the building
commissioner may examine or cause to be examined all buildings, structures, and
sites for which an application has been filed for a permit to construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, remove, demolish, or change the use thereof.
   B.   Required Inspection: After issuing a building permit, the building
commissioner shall conduct such inspections from time to time during and upon
completion of the work for which he has issued a permit, and he shall maintain
a record of all such examinations and inspections and of all violations of this
title.
   C.   Accredited Inspection Services: The building commissioner may engage
the services of the county building development or health department or such
other professional or accredited inspection agencies to perform inspections
hereunder. The building commissioner may accept reports of approved inspection
services which satisfy his requirements as to qualifications and reliability.
   D.   Reports: All inspection reports shall be in writing and shall be
certified by the licensed authority or responsible officer of the service, or
the individual when expert inspection services are accepted. (1990 Code
§16.208)
   E.   Request For Inspection: At least twenty four (24) hours' notice shall
be given to the building commissioner for required inspection by an applicant 1
. (1990 Code §16.208; amd. 2011 Code)
   F.   Final Inspection: Upon completion of the building or structure, and
before issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy, a final inspection shall
be made. All violations of the approved plans, permits and applicable code
shall be noted, and the holder of the permit shall be notified of the
discrepancies. No certificate of use and occupancy shall be issued until all
discrepancies have been resolved to the satisfaction of the building
commissioner. (1990 Code §16.208)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-2-2-1 (§ 113.3) of this title.
10-1-8: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
With the consent of the owner or occupant, or his or her representative, or a
court order in the discharge of his duties, the building commissioner or his
authorized representative shall have the authority to enter, at any reasonable
hour, any building, structure or premises in the village to enforce the
provisions of this title. (1990 Code §16.209)
10-1-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Unlawful Acts: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
erect, construct, alter, extend, repair, remove, demolish, use or occupy any
building or structure or equipment regulated by this title, or cause same to be
done, contrary to or in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions
of this title.
   B.   Notice Of Violation: The building commissioner shall serve a notice of
violation or order on the person responsible for the erection, construction,
alteration, extension, repair, removal, demolition, use or occupancy of a
building or structure in violation of the provisions of this title or in
violation of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this title,
and such order shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or
condition and the abatement of the violation. (1990 Code §16.214)
   C.   Prosecution Of Violation: If the notice of violation is not rectified
within the specified time as determined by the building commissioner, the
building commissioner shall require the village attorney to institute
proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation or
to require the removal or termination of the unlawful use of the building or
structure in violation of the provisions of this title or of the order or
direction made pursuant thereto.
   D.   Penalties: Any person who violates a provision of this title or fails
to comply with any of the requirements hereof or who erects, constructs, alters
or repairs a building or structure in violation of an approved plan or
directive of the building commissioner, or of a permit or certificate issued
under the provisions of this title, a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code shall be imposed. Each day that a violation continues shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   E.   Abatement Of Violation: The imposition of the penalties prescribed in
this section shall not preclude the village attorney from instituting
appropriate action to prevent unlawful construction; or to restrain, correct or
abate a violation; or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or
premises; or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business or use of a building or
structure in or about any premises. (1990 Code §16.214; amd. 2011 Code)
   F.   Stop Work Order: Upon notice from the building commissioner that work
on any building or structure is being prosecuted contrary to the provisions of
this title, or in an unsafe and dangerous manner, such work shall be
immediately stopped. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given
to the owner of the property involved, or to the owner's agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which the work may
be resumed. (1990 Code §16.215)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
10-2-1: Adoption Of Codes
10-2-2: Amendments
10-2-2-1:Building Code Amendments
10-2-2-2:Mechanical Code Amendments
10-2-2-3:Electrical Code Amendments
10-2-2-4:Residential Code Amendments
10-2-2-5:Fire Code Amendments
10-2-2-6:Property Maintenance Code Amendments
10-2-2-7:Fuel Gas Code Amendments
10-2-2-8:Energy Conservation Code Amendments
10-2-2-9: Swimming Pool And Spa Code Amendments
10-2-2-10: Life Safety Code Amendments
10-2-3: Penalty
10-2-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
The village hereby adopts the following codes and standards as the building
codes of the village:
   2021 edition of the International Building Code (2021 International Building
Code or 2021 IBC), as published by the International Code Council, 200
Massachusetts Ave NW, Washington, DC 20001.
   2021 edition of the International Exiting Building Code (2021 International
Existing Building Code or 2021 IEBC), as published by the International Code
Council, 200 Massachusetts Ave NW, Washington, DC 20001.
   2021 edition of the International Mechanical Code (2021 International
Mechanical Code or 2021 IMC), as published by the International Code Council,
200 Massachusetts Ave NW, Washington, DC 20001.
   2020 edition of the National Electrical Code (2020 National Electrical Code
or 2020 NEC), as published by the National Fire Protection Association, 1
Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA U.S. 02169.
   2021 edition of the International Residential Code (2021 International
Residential Code or 2021 IRC), as published by the International Code Council,
200 Massachusetts Ave NW, Washington, DC 20001.
   Current edition of the Illinois Plumbing Code, as adopted and amended by the
State of Illinois.
   2021 edition of the International Fire Code (2021 International Fire Code or
2021 IFC), as published by the International Code Council, 200 Massachusetts
Ave NW, Washington, DC 20001.
   2021 edition of the International Property Maintenance Code (2021
International Property Maintenance Code or 2021 IPMC), as published by the
International Code Council, 200 Massachusetts Ave NW, Washington, DC 20001.
   2021 edition of the International Fuel Gas Code (2021 International Fuel Gas
Code or 2021 IFGC), as published by the International Code Council, 200
Massachusetts Ave NW, Washington, DC 20001.
   Current edition of the Illinois Energy Conservation Code, as adopted and
amended by the State of Illinois.
   2021 edition of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (2021
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code or 2021 ISPSC), as published by the
International Code Council, 200 Massachusetts Ave NW, Washington, DC 20001.
   Illinois Accessibility Code, as adopted and amended by the State of
Illinois.
   2021 edition of the NFPA 101 (2021 Life Safety Code), as published by the
National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA U.S.
02169.
   A copy of these codes are on file in the office of the village clerk for
public use and inspection.
(Ord. 2004-01, 1-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2024-O-17, 8-5-2024, eff. 10-1-
2024)
10-2-2: AMENDMENTS:
10-2-2-1: BUILDING CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following provisions shall further apply and shall supersede any and all
references listed within the 2021 International Building Code:
   Revise Section 101.1 to insert "The village of Pingree Grove" as the name of
jurisdiction.
   Revise Section 101.2.1 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Appendices. Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically
adopted. The village adopts the following Appendices: A (Employee
Qualifications), C (Group U – Agricultural Buildings), F (Rodentproofing), G
(Flood-Resistant Construction), and J (Grading).
   Section 102.5 Insert the following: Where more restrictive in any respect,
the limitations, or requirements of any other Village of Pingree Grove
regulations shall take precedence over the regulations of this code.
   Insert Section 105.1.3, with the following: Culvert and Site Access. Before
any construction, site work, or grading excavation may be commenced on any
property, lot, or tract there shall be first installed, inspected, and approved
by the village engineer a culvert and gravel base access to each such property,
lot, or tract.
   Insert Section 105.3.3, with the following: Fees. The Village of Pingree
Grove shall establish fees for all permits. No fees for plan review or a permit
shall be refunded.
   Revise Section 105.6 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Expiration. Every permit issued shall expire through inactivity where such work
authorized by the permit fails to commence within 180 days of permit issuance,
or if the work authorized by the permit is suspended or abandoned for a period
greater than 180 days after last approved inspection step within the work
authorized by the permit. All permits expire within one year of the date of
permit issuance. The Village Manager is authorized to grant in writing one or
more permit extensions for periods not to exceed 90 days. The petitions for
permit extension shall be made in writing by the permit holder prior to the
permit expiration. The petition must clearly outline justification for the
extension through a demonstrable hardship.
   Insert Section 105.6.1, with the following: Demolition permit expiration.
Demolition permits issued shall expire 90 days from date of permit issuance.
Extensions shall not be granted to avoid expiration of a demolition permit.
   Revise Section 105.7 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Placement of permit. At time of permit issuance, the Village of Pingree Grove
shall issue a permit placard. The permit placard shall be posted in a
conspicuous location viewed from the public right of way. The permit placard
shall remain posted until completion of the project and issuance of a either a
certificate of completion or certificate of occupancy.
   Insert Section 107.2.6.2, with the following: Compliance with Grading Plan
Ordinance. Any work, which includes bringing fill to a site or alteration to
the grading and/or drainage of a lot, requires a building permit. The owner
shall submit plans, surveys and specifications signed and sealed by a
professional engineer licensed within the State of Illinois.
   Insert Section 107.2.7.1, with the following: Foundations. The foundation
design shall indicate the top of the foundation in relation to the crown of the
pavement (as measured at the lowest point of the crown of the pavement between
the ends of the property lines) of the street on which a building abuts or the
building and lot shall comply with the current grading ordinance.
   Insert Section 107.2.8, with the following: Any applicant for a building
permit for construction of a building which requires the extension of the water
or sewer system or the installation of a well or septic system shall submit
detailed plans for said construction.
   Revise Section 109.1 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Payment of fees. A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law
have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the
additional fee, if any, has been paid. The fees will be calculated using Title
10, Chapter 4 of the village code based on the gross floor area per Section
109.1.1.
   Insert Section 109.1.1, with the following: Gross floor area for fee
calculation. Calculation of the permit fee shall be based on the annual fee
schedule using the total gross floor area of the building. The total gross
floor area shall include the area of each floor. The gross floor area of each
floor is measured from the exterior face of the exterior walls or from the
centerline of the fire wall separating two buildings. Disputes in the
calculation of gross floor area shall be appealed to the Village Manager. The
gross floor area of a building shall include but not be limited to:
      1.   Elevator shafts and the stairwells.
      2.   Mechanical equipment unless located on the roof either open or
enclosed.
      3.   Attic space having headroom conforming to the definition of
habitable space.
      4.   Interior balconies or mezzanines.
      5.   Enclosed porches.
      6.   Interior off street parking or loading areas.
      7.   Outdoor display areas.
      8.   Basement.
      9.   Garage(s).
      10.   Crawl spaces.
   Revise Section 110.3 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Required Inspections. In adherence with the Village inspection scheduling
process, the permit holder shall request all inspections set forth in Sections
110.3.1 through 110.3.23. The request for the inspection shall occur no later
than 4:00 PM on the business day prior to the inspection.
   110.3.1   Site Preparation and/or Culvert: An inspection to ensure the
adequate provision of all required soil erosion control and tree protection
prior to grading, footing excavation, or any other work on the property.
   110.3.2   Footing Excavation: An inspection is required before concrete is
poured and after excavation and forming have been completed.
   110.3.3   Foundation Forms: An inspection is required after the foundation
wall forms are set and before concrete is poured.
   110.3.4   Foundation Wall: An inspection is required before backfilling.
This inspection shall occur after the foundation drainage system and damp
proofing have been completed.
   110.3.5   Foundation Elevation: Immediately after the foundation has been
poured prior to framing, the owner or contractor shall submit to the building
commissioner two (2) copies of an onsite location of the structure showing the
top of foundation elevations in USGS datum, prepared by a registered land
surveyor and the distances to the lot lines. This elevation survey shall be
approved by the village engineer. In no case shall a final inspection for
certificate of occupancy be made until such information is provided.
   110.3.6   Driveway: After placing of forms or otherwise establishing the
border of a driveway and prior to installation of asphalt, concrete pavers, or
other hard surfaced material, an inspection is required to ensure that the
driveway complies with the approved site plan, maximum and minimum width
requirements, and setback requirements. Placement of driveway forms and the
driveway inspection can be conducted at any time during the construction
process.
   110.3.7   Electric Service: An inspection is required after electric panel,
meter enclosure, and temporary ground have been installed.
   110.3.8   Underfloor Plumbing: An inspection shall be performed of all
plumbing installed under the floor system of the building. The inspection shall
occur once all plumbing is in place, but prior to covering it by concrete or
floor sheathing.
   110.3.9   Underground Plumbing: An inspection shall of all underground
plumbing systems installed outside of the building footprint. The installation
shall comply with the requirements of the adopted edition of the International
Plumbing Code. These inspections may include but not be limited to water
service piping, sewer, storm drainage, or irrigation.
   110.3.10   Rough Framing: An inspection is required before any insulation
and vapor barrier is installed and after the rough framing, rough plumbing and
rough electrical work are completed.
   110.3.11   Rough Plumbing: An inspection is required before and after any
insulation and vapor barrier is installed.
   110.3.12   Rough Electric: An inspection is required before any insulation
and vapor barrier is installed or any underground electrical work is covered by
concrete and after the rough electrical work is complete.
   110.3.13   Framing inspection for Type IV-A, IV-B, and IV-C connections. In
buildings of Types IV-A, IV-B and IV-C construction, where connection fire-
resistance ratings are provided by wood cover calculated to meet the
requirements of Section 2304.10.1, inspection of the wood cover shall be made
after the cover is installed, but before any other coverings or finishes are
installed.
   110.3.14   Insulation And Vapor Barrier: An inspection is required before
any interior wall finish is applied and after the insulation and vapor barrier
are installed.
   110.3.15   Lath, gypsum board and gypsum panel product inspection. Lath,
gypsum board and gypsum panel product inspections shall be made after lathing,
gypsum board and gypsum panel products, interior and exterior, are in place,
but before any plastering is applied or gypsum board and gypsum panel product
joints and fasteners are taped and finished.
            Exception: Gypsum board and gypsum panel products that are not part
of a fire-resistance-rated assembly or a shear assembly are not required to be
inspected. These products, when not inspected must be installed in compliance
with this code and the product listing.
   110.3.16   Fire- and smoke-resistant penetrations. Protection of joints and
penetrations in fire-resistance-rated assemblies, smoke barriers and smoke
partitions shall not be concealed from view until inspected and approved.
   110.3.17   Septic System: If a private sanitary sewer system is used and has
been approved by Kane County a final inspection and approval by Kane County is
required.
   110.3.18   Energy efficiency inspections. Inspections shall be made to
determine compliance with Chapter 13 and shall include, but not be limited to,
inspections for: envelope insulation R- and U-values, fenestration U-value,
duct system R-value, and HVAC and water-heating equipment efficiency.
   110.3.19   Other inspections. In addition to the prescriptive requirements
of the Illinois Accessibility Code, the building official is authorized to make
or require other inspections of any construction work to ascertain compliance
with the provisions of this code and other laws that are enforced by the
village.
   110.3.20   Special inspections. For special inspections, see Chapter 17.
   110.3.21   Final: Final inspection is required before issuance of a building
certificate of occupancy for a structure. The final inspection shall ensure
that the building and site comply with all village codes and regulations
including but not limited to the building codes, zoning ordinance, and
engineering requirements. It shall include inspections for the following:
building, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, site engineering, landscaping, and
fire protection. All fire protection systems shall be approved by the building
commissioner after inspection by the local fire protection district.
   110.3.22   Bond Release: An inspection is required prior to the release of
any outstanding bonds to ensure compliance with all but not limited to local
codes, ordinances and standards including landscaping improvements.
   110.3.23   General: These inspections shall include but not be limited to:
      1.   A reinspection required, as a result of builder error shall be
performed at an additional fee, which is subtracted from the bond or payable
before release thereof.
      2.   Proper and safe ladders for access to basements and attic are the
responsibility of the contractors. There will be no inspections performed if
adequate ladders are not provided.
      3.   All materials required for testing are the responsibility of the
contractor.
      4.   All job sites shall have an approved sign indicating the address and
permit number. The sign shall have provisions for the placing of inspection
forms when there is no property representative on site. The provisions shall
keep the inspection form dry and from blowing away.
         The sign shall be a minimum of 24 inches by 24 inches and no greater
than 36 inches by 36 inches. Provisions shall be made at the sign for storing
an approved set of plans until the structure is tight to the weather.
         The location of the plans and inspection forms shall be placed in a
location approved by the inspector. It shall be visible from the street or
right of way and not be located in the right of way.
         The copy of the approved plans shall be on the job site at all times.
   Revise Section 111.3 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Temporary occupancy permit. The village shall require a permit for temporary
occupancy.
      1.   For single-family or two-family dwellings, a temporary occupancy
permit may be issued at the discretion of the Village when the dwelling is
otherwise approved for occupancy, but the driveway, exterior landscaping and/or
site work has not been completed. The time to complete outstanding exterior
improvements shall not exceed 90 days. The permit holder may petition for a
permit extension per Section 105.6, at the discretion of the Village.
      2.   For all other occupancy types, a temporary occupancy permit may be
issued prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy at the sole
discretion of the Village. Buildings intended for temporary occupancy must meet
the requirements of Section 111.3.1.
   Insert Section 111.3.1, with the following: Temporary occupancy. The
building official is authorized to issue a temporary certificate of occupancy
before the completion of the entire work covered under the permit and approved
construction documents. The permit holder must petition the Village of Pingree
Grove for temporary occupancy. The building official may only grant temporary
occupancy where the following have been met:
      1.   The building official shall request from the permit holder an
itemized breakdown of all outstanding work, with valuation to complete the
project per the permit and approved construction documents. This document shall
be reviewed by the building official for accuracy and completeness.
      2.   The village engineer shall request from the permit holder an
itemized breakdown of all outstanding work, with valuation to complete the
project per the permit and approved construction documents. This document shall
be reviewed by the village engineer for accuracy and completeness.
      3.   The permittee shall post within an escrow account an amount equal to
150% of the cost to complete the project per the permit and approved
construction documents. These funds will be surrendered to the Village of
Pingree Grove for failure to complete the project.
      4.   Temporary occupancy is limited to those portions of the building or
tenant space where all work has been completed. Occupants must not egress
through any area with construction activity. The means of egress system for the
area approved for temporary occupancy must comply with the prescriptive
requirements of the International Building Code and the International Fire
Code, as regulated by the Pingree Grove Fire Protection District.
      5.   All fire protection systems shall be inspected, tagged into service,
and approved by the Pingree Grove Fire Protection District prior to stocking
the building with combustible materials or approval for temporary occupancy.
Written approval by the Pingree Grove Fire Protection District shall be
provided to the Village of Pingree Grove prior to temporary occupancy approval.
      6.   The permit holder shall provide a written agreement that all work
required for full occupancy will be completed on or before the date mandated by
the Village of Pingree Grove.
   Section 113 Means Of Appeal: Delete 112.1 through 112.3 and insert:
   Section 113.1 Application For Appeal: Any person shall have the right to
appeal a decision of the code official to the board of appeals. An application
for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the
rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equivalent form of
construction is to be used.
   Section 113.2 Membership Of Board: The board of appeals shall be comprised
of the village president and board of trustees of the village of Pingree Grove.
   Section 113.3 Open Hearing: All hearings before the board shall be open to
the public and in compliance with the provisions of the open meetings act. The
appellant, the appellant's representative, the code official and any person
whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
   Section 113.4 Board Decision: The board shall modify or reverse the decision
of the code official by a concurring vote of a majority of its sitting members.
   Revise Section 202 to include the following definitions:
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The building department of the village of Pingree Grove
as administered by the village building commissioner or if none, the president,
or his appointee.
   ESCROW. The sequestered amount or security approved by the building
department and/or the village engineer and created by an applicant for a
temporary occupancy permit running in favor of the said applicant and the
village to guarantee completion of the building, structure, or construction.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The individual or contracting company that the Village of
Pingree Grove has issued a construction permit to complete the narrowly defined
scope or description of work reflected within the permit application and
Village of Pingree Grove approved construction documents.
   SWIMMING POOLS. Any structure intended for public or private swimming,
recreational bathing or wading that contains water over 18 inches (457.2 mm)
deep. This includes in-ground, above-ground, and on-ground pools; hot tubs;
spas and fixed-in-place wading pools.
   TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY PERMIT. A permit issued by the village building
department allowing for conditional occupancy for a period prior to the
establishment of full occupancy rights for a building or structure.
   Revise Section 901.6 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Supervisory service. Where required, fire protection systems shall be monitored
by an approved supervising station in accordance with NFPA 72. The monitoring
of all fire protection systems shall be to an approved location.
   Revise Section 903.1 to read as follows:
   General. Automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this section. An
automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in all Groups A, Group B, Group
E, Group F, Group H, Group I, Group M, Group R, Group S and Group U
occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.1.1 to read as follows:
   Alternative protection. In cases where municipal water connections cannot be
provided due to unforeseen situations the fire code official shall designate an
alternative type sprinkler system using tank water per NFPA 13 (2019).
Alternative automatic fire extinguishing systems complying with Section 904
shall be permitted instead of automatic sprinkler protection where recognized
by the applicable standard and approved by the fire code official.
   Review to include Section 903.1.2 to read as follows:
   Variance. The Village Board of Trustees in consultation with the Pingree
Grove & Countryside Fire Protection District Fire Chief and through a majority
vote may approve a variance to the automatic sprinkler system requirements. The
applicant seeking a variance to the automatic sprinkler system requirements
must file a petition prepared by a registered design professional that proposes
an equivalency to the prescriptive requirement and pay filing fees established
by the Board of Trustees.
   Revise Section 903.2.1.1 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group A-
1 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.1.2 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group A-
2 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.1.3 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group A-
3 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.1.4 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group A-
4 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.1.1 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group A-
I occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.3 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group E occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.4 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group F-
1 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.4.1 to read as follows:
   Woodworking operations. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in
all woodworking operations.
   Revise Section 903.2.4.3 to read as follows:
   Group F-1 upholstered furniture or mattresses. An automatic sprinkler system
shall be provided throughout a Group F-1 fire area used for the manufacture of
upholstered furniture or mattresses.
   Revise to include Section 903.2.4.4 to read as follows:
   Group F-2. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group F-
2 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.5 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group H occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.6 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group I occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.7 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group M occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.7.2 to read as follows:
   Group M upholstered furniture or mattresses. An automatic sprinkler system
shall be provided throughout a Group M fire area where the area used for the
display and sale of upholstered furniture or mattresses.
   Revise Section 903.2.8 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group R occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.9 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group S-
1 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.9.1 to read as follows:
   Repair garages. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
all buildings used as repair garages.
   Revise Section 903.2.9.2 to read as follows:
   Bulk storage of tires. Buildings and structures used for the bulk storage of
tires shall be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in
accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.
   Revise Section 903.2.9.4 to read as follows:
   Group S-1 upholstered furniture and mattresses. An automatic sprinkler
system shall be provided throughout a Group S-1 fire area where the area is
used for the storage of upholstered furniture or mattresses.
   Revise Section 903.2.10 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group S-2 occupancies
and within buildings containing a Group S-2 fire area.
   Delete Section 903.2.11
   Delete Sections 903.2.11.1 through 903.2.11.6.
   Delete Table 903.2.11.6.
   Revise Section 1102.1 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Design. Buildings and facilities shall be designed and constructed to be
accessible in accordance with this code, ICC A117.1, and the Illinois
Accessibility Code. Where a conflict occurs between the codes and the Illinois
Accessibility Code, the most restrictive provision shall govern.
   Section 1612.3 Insert "the village of Pingree Grove".
   Section 1612.3 Insert "the of adoption of the flood regulations".
   Section 2701.1 Add the following paragraph:
   The village building commissioner shall require that the provisions of the
adopted edition of the "National Electrical Code (NFPA 70)" as presently in
force or as the same may be hereafter amended or modified, be incorporated
herein by reference and adopted as the standard and that all such installations
shall conform to the provisions of the "National Electrical Code (NFPA 70)".
Where a conflict occurs between the codes, the most restrictive provision shall
govern.
   Chapter 29 Delete all sections in chapter 29 and insert the following: The
village building commissioner shall require that the provisions of the current
"Illinois Plumbing Code", 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/1 et seq., as
presently in force or as the same may be hereafter amended or modified and the
same is hereby incorporated herein by reference and adopted as the standard for
the purposes hereof. Any conflicts concerning the provisions of these codes
shall be determined by the strictest standard contained in the code provisions.
   Section 3107.1 Insert the following: Where more restrictive in any respect,
the limitations, or requirements of any other village of Pingree Grove sign
ordinance shall take precedence over the regulations of this code.
(Ord. 2004-01, 1-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-O-17, 8-5-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
10-2-2-2: MECHANICAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following provisions shall further apply and shall supersede any and all
references listed within the adopted edition of the International Mechanical
Code:
   Revise Section 101.1 to insert "The village of Pingree Grove" as the name of
jurisdiction.
   Revise Section 101.2.1 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Appendices. Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically
adopted. The village adopts Appendix A (Chimney Connector Pass-Throughs).
   Revise Section 109.1 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Payment of fees. A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law
have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the
additional fee, if any, has been paid. The fees will be calculated using Title
10, Chapter 4 of the village code.
   Section 114 Means Of Appeal: Delete 114.1 through 114.4 and insert: See the
appeals board created in the building code.
   Revise Section 1202.4 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Hydronic pipe shall conform to the standards listed in Table 1202.4. The
exterior of the pipe shall be protected from corrosion and degradation. The use
of lead piping, lead fittings, and lead solder is prohibited.
(Ord. 2004-01, 1-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-O-17, 8-5-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
10-2-2-3: ELECTRICAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following provisions shall further apply and shall supersede any and all
references listed within the 2020 edition of the National Electrical Code (NFPA
70-2020):
   Revise to include Section 250.50(A): Grounding Electrode Systems for New
Construction. New buildings or structures shall use a concrete-encased
electrode specified in 250.52(A)(3) as the primary grounding electrode system.
Where available and installed, grounding electrodes described in 250.52(A)(1)
through (A)(7) shall be bonded together to form the grounding electrode system.
(Ord. 2004-01, 1-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-O-17, 8-5-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
10-2-2-4: RESIDENTIAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following provisions shall further apply and shall supersede any and all
references listed within the 2018 edition of the International Residential Code
(2018 IRC):
   Revise Section R101.1 to insert "The village of Pingree Grove" as the name
of jurisdiction.
   Revise Section R102.5 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Appendices. Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically
adopted. The village adopts the following Appendices: AA (Sizing and Capacity
of Gas Piping), AB (Sizing of Venting Systems Serving Appliances Equipped with
Draft Hoods, Category I Appliances and Appliances Listed for use with Type B
Vents), AC (Exit Terminals of Mechanical Draft and Direct-Vent Venting
Systems), AD (Recommended Procedure for Safety Inspection of an Existing
Appliance Installation), AF (Radon Control Methods), AI (Private Sewage
Disposal), AJ (Existing Buildings and Structures), and AK (Sound Transmission).
   Revise to include Section R106.6 : Section R106.6 No plans shall be approved
for permit unless such plans are signed and sealed either by an architect,
structural engineer or a professional licensed by the state of Illinois
provided that the person who signs and seals such plans shall be permitted to
do so within the limitations of the particular act under which he or she is
licensed to practice; such licensed professional shall sign and seal those
portions of the plan for which he or she is responsible with the following
exceptions:
   1.   Minor alterations to one- and two-family properties, which do not
involve structural changes.
   2.   Residential accessory buildings not over 660 square feet in area or 16
feet in height measured from the finished floor to the top of the ridge.
   3.   Residential decks that are not roofed over or designed with a structure
overhead.
   Revise Section R108 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Payment of fees. A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law
have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the
additional fee, if any, has been paid. The fees will be calculated using Title
10, Chapter 4 of the village code.
   Section R112 Board of Appeal in its entirety and insert:
   Section R112.1 Application for Appeal: Any person shall have the right to
appeal a decision of the code official to the board of appeals. An application
for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the
rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equivalent form of
construction is to be used.
   Section R112.2 Membership of Board: The board of appeals shall be comprised
of the village president and board of trustees of the village of Pingree Grove.
   Section R112.3 Open Hearing: All hearings before the board shall be open to
the public and in compliance with the provisions of the open meetings act. The
appellant, the appellant's representative, the code official and any person
whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
   Section R112.4 Board Decision: The board shall modify or reverse the
decision of the code official by a concurring vote of a majority of its sitting
members.
   Table R301.2 The following information shall be inserted in the table:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4946fd43bb2f8dbc5218e5bd25ea5318a6e0fb88/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2136.png]
 
   Revise Section R309.1 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Floor surfaces. Garage floor surfaces shall be of approved noncombustible
materials. The area of floor used for parking of automobiles or other vehicles
shall be sloped to facilitate the movement of liquids to a drain or toward the
main vehicle entry doorway. A minimum of a 4-inch (101.6 mm) curb shall be
provided between the dwelling and the garage.
   Revise R309.5 in its entirety and replace it with the following: Opening
protection. Openings from a private garage directly into a room used for
sleeping purposes shall not be permitted. Other openings between the garage and
residence shall be equipped with solid wood doors not less than 1-3/8 inches
(35 mm) in thickness, solid or honeycomb steel core doors not less than 1-3/
8 inches (35 mm) in thickness, or 20-minute fire-rated doors.
   Section R309.5.1 is hereby included to read as: Duct penetrations. Ducts in
the garage and ducts penetrating the walls and ceilings separating the dwelling
from the garage shall be constructed of a minimum No. 26 gage (0.48 mm) sheet
steel or other approved material and shall have no openings into the garage.
   Section R309.5.2 is hereby included to read as: Other penetrations.
Penetrations through the separation required by Section R309.6 shall be
protected by filling the opening around the penetrating item with an approved
penetration firestop system as tested in accordance with ASTM E814 or UL 1479,
in accordance with the International Building Code.
   Section R309.5.3 is hereby included to read as: Fire Sprinklers. Private
garages shall be protected by fire sprinklers where the garage wall has been
designed based on Table R302.1(2), Note a. Sprinklers in garages shall be
connected to an automatic sprinkler system that complies with Section P2904.
Garage sprinklers shall be residential sprinklers or quick-response sprinklers,
designed to provide a density of 0.05 gpm/ft2. Garage doors shall not be
considered obstructions with respect to sprinkler placement.
   Section R309.6 is hereby included to read as: Separation required. The
garage shall be separated from the residence and its attic area or floor above
by not less than 5/8-inch (15.9 mm) gypsum Type X gypsum board or equivalent.
Where the separation is a floor-ceiling assembly, the structure supporting the
separation shall also be protected by not less than 5/8-inch (15.9 mm) gypsum
Type X gypsum board or equivalent. Garages located less than 3 feet (914 mm)
from a dwelling unit on the same lot shall be protected with not less than ½-
inch (12.7 mm) gypsum board applied to the interior side of the exterior walls
that are within the area. Openings in these walls shall be regulated by Section
R309.5. This provision shall not apply to garage walls that are perpendicular
to the adjacent dwelling unit walls.
   Section R313.1.1 is hereby amended to read as: Design and installation.
Automatic residential sprinkler systems in townhouses shall be designed and
installed in accordance with the edition of NFPA 13D adopted by reference
within the adopted edition of the International Fire Code.
   Section R313.2.1 is hereby amended to read as: Design and installation.
Automatic residential fire sprinkler systems shall be designed and installed in
accordance with the edition of NFPA 13D as adopted by reference within the
adopted edition of the International Fire Code.
   Section R313.3 is hereby included to read as: Flow alarm. Upon water flow
within the automatic residential sprinkler system, an audible and visual alarm
shall be activated. The audible and visual alarm shall be installed on the
exterior at the dwelling facing the public way.
   Section R314.1.2 is hereby included to read as: Heat detector listing. Heat
detectors shall be listed in accordance with UL 539.
   Section R314.2.3 is hereby included to read as: Heat detectors. Heat
detection rated for the ambient outdoor temperatures shall be installed in new
garages that are attached to or located within new and existing dwellings. Heat
detection shall be installed in a central location and in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions and be interconnected to compatible smoke alarms
within the dwelling.
   Section R314 is hereby amended to read as: Power source. Smoke alarms and
heat detectors shall receive their primary power from the building wiring where
such wiring is served from a commercial source and, where primary power is
interrupted, shall receive power from a battery. Wiring shall be permanent and
without a disconnecting switch other than those required for overcurrent
protection.
   Section 2701.1 is hereby amended to read as: Scope. The provisions of this
chapter and Village of Pingree Grove adopted edition of the National Electrical
Code (NFPA 70) shall govern the design, construction, erection and installation
of the electrical components, appliances, equipment, and systems used in
buildings and structures covered by this code. The Village of Pingree Grove
adopted editions of the International Fire Code, the International Property
Maintenance Code and National Electrical Code (NFPA 70) shall govern the use
and maintenance of electrical components, appliances, equipment, and systems.
The Village of Pingree Grove adopted editions International Existing Building
Code and National Electrical Code (NFPA 70) shall govern the alteration,
repair, relocation, replacement, and addition of electrical components,
appliances, or equipment and systems.
   Revise Section R402.1 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Wood foundations. The use of wood foundations or footing systems are
prohibited.
   Delete chapters 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, and 33.
   Insert “All plumbing systems shall be designed and installed in compliance
with the latest edition of the State of Illinois Plumbing Code.”
(Ord. 2004-01, 1-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-O-17, 8-5-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
10-2-2-5: FIRE CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following provisions shall further apply and shall supersede any and all
references listed within the 2021 edition of the International Fire Code (2021
IFC):
   Revise Section 101.1 to insert "The village of Pingree Grove" as the name of
jurisdiction.
   Revise to delete Section 105 in its entirety.
   Subsection 101.1 Title (page 1, Name of Jurisdiction, Insert in second line)
   INSERT: Village of Pingree Grove.
   Subsection 102.3 Change of use or occupancy. Amend section to read follows:
   Amend:   The provisions of the International Building Code shall apply to
all buildings undergoing a change of occupancy, repairs, alterations and
additions as adopted by the Village of Pingree Grove.
   Subsection 102.4 Application of building code. Amend to read as follows:
   Amend:   The design and construction of new structure, repairs, alterations
and additions to existing structures shall comply with the International
Building Code.
   Revise to create Section 102.10.1 to read as follows:
   Conflicts with Fire Protection District. Where a conflict exists between
those codes adopted for enforcement by the Village of Pingree Grove and the
Pingree Grove & Countryside Fire Protection District, the most restrictive
shall govern.
   Subsection 105.6 Required operational permits. Amend to read as follows:
   Amend:   The fire code official is authorized to issue operational permits
for the use and handling of any quantity of explosive material, fireworks, or
pyrotechnic special effects within the scope of Chapter 56.
   Subsection 111.1 Board of appeals established. Amended to read as follows:
   Amend:   In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or
determinations made by the code official relative to the application and
interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of
appeals consisting of members who are employees of the jurisdiction. The fire
code official shall be an ex officio member of said board but shall have no
vote on any matter before the board. The Board of Appeals shall consist of the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Pingree Grove. The President
shall serve as Chairman and the Village of Pingree Grove's Board of Trustees
Secretary shall serve as Secretary. The board shall adopt rules of procedures
for conducting its business, and shall render all decisions and findings in
writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the code official.
   Subsection 112.4 Violation penalties. Amended to read as follows:
   Amend:   Persons who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter
or repair or do work in violation of the approved construction documents or
directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate issued under
provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
of not less than $100.00 or more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment not
exceeding 180 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a
violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate
offence.
   Subsection 113.4 Failure to comply. Amended to read as follows:
   Amend:   Any person who shall continue any work after having been served
with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform
to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine of not
less than $100.00 or more than $1,000.00.
   Subsection 202 GENERAL DEFINITIONS: Add and amend to read as follows:
   DELETE: Factory Industrial F-2 Low-Hazard Occupancy in its entirety (Page
18).
   ADD:   All factory industrial uses and occupancy classified as Group F-
2 shall be classified as Group F-1. Requirements of this ordinance and code for
factory industrial F-1 shall apply to all factory industrial use and occupancy.
   DELETE: Low-hazard storage, Group S-2 in its entirety.
   ADD:   Low Hazard Storage, Group S-2. All uses which are classified as use
group S-2, shall be considered to be use group S-1. The provisions of this code
for use group S-1 shall apply to such structures. No building or structure
shall be classified as S-2, Low Hazard Storage.
   ADD:   Building Identification. Address numbers shall be visible from the
street and located in the upper third of the building. Street numbers shall be
Arabic numerals and contrasting in color so as to be clearly visible at a
location approved by the Fire Code Official prior to installation. Address
numerals shall also be located on the rear doors of multi-tenant buildings
(minimum 6 inches in height) along with suite numbers and the occupancy name
and shall be contrasting in color with the background.
   ADD:   Building Emergency Egress Identification: All new buildings and or
structures which are remodeled in any fashion shall have their egress doors
marked in accordance with the Village of Pingree Grove's emergency
identification system. Numbering shall be a minimum of six inches in size,
contrasting in color and located in the upper right-hand comer of the interior
and exterior of all required egress doors. The numbering system shall designate
the location of the door by alpha and numeric identification according to the
direction the door faces and its orientation from north to south and east to
west and approved by the Fire Code Official.
   ADD:   Void Areas: Where additional ceilings are added during construction
or remodeling there shall not be more than one void space created without the
approval of the Building and Fire Code Officials approval.
   Revise Section 311.1 to read as follows:
   General. Temporarily unoccupied buildings, structures, premises, or portions
thereof, including tenant spaces, shall be safe guarded and maintained in
accordance with this section. Fire protection systems required by this code or
the adopted edition of the International Building Code as amended and adopted
by the Village of Pingree Grove shall be installed, repaired, operated, tested
and maintained in accordance with this code. The building owner shall provide
updated key holder information as required by the Pingree Grove & Countryside
Fire Protection District.
   Vacant structures which have been unoccupied for more than 24 consecutive
months shall be required to be inspected prior to occupancy. The building or
unoccupied portion shall be required to be equipped with a full automatic fire
alarm system as specified in Section 907 and be directly monitored by the
authority having jurisdiction.
   Revise Section 314.3 to read as follows:
   Highly combustible goods. The display of highly combustible goods, including
but not limited to fireworks, flammable or combustible liquids, liquefied
flammable gases, oxidizing materials, pyroxylin plastics and agricultural
goods, in main exit access aisles, corridors, covered and open malls, or within
25 feet (7620 mm) of entrances to exits and exterior exit doors is prohibited
where a fire involving such goods would rapidly prevent or obstruct egress.
   Revise Section 314.4 to include the following:
   4.   The parking or storage of motorized vehicles shall only be done in
properly designated areas designed specifically for vehicle parking or storage.
   Revise Section 503.3 to include the following:
   The fire code official may require posting of new and existing fire access
roads "No Parking, Stopping, or Standing — Fire Lane" signs as deemed necessary
to ensure fire apparatus accessibility is maintained and is able to be
enforced.
   Revise to create Section 503.4.2 to read as follows:
   Speed bumps. When approved, speed bumps installed on a fire access road
shall not exceed four inches in height over a twenty-four-inch graded span and
shall be graded to avoid sharp contrast or as otherwise approved by the fire
code official.
   Revise Section 503.6 to read as follows:
   Security gates. The installation of security gates across a fire apparatus
access road or entrance shall be approved by the fire chief. Where security
gates are installed, they shall be equipped with an approved key switch that
activates the operation of the gate. The key switch and its location shall be
approved by the Fire Code Official. The security gates and the emergency
operation shall be maintained operational at all times. An approved key
security box (Knox Box) shall be installed on a post in a location close and
visible to the gate and approved by the Fire Code Official.
   Revise to create Section 503.7 to read as follows:
   Obstruction of fire apparatus access roads and fire lanes. Vehicles that
obstruct or block posted fire apparatus access roads and fire lanes shall not
be fined less than $75.00 or more than $1,000.00 per vehicle per incident.
   Revise to create Section 503.8 to read as follows:
   Vehicles that obstruct or block posted fire department sprinkler connections
shall not be fined less than $75.00 or more than $1,000.00 per vehicle per
incident.
   Revise Section 506.1 to read as follows:
   Where required. Where access to or within a structure or an area is
restricted because of secured openings or where immediate access is necessary
for life-saving or firefighting purposes, the fire code official is authorized
to require a key box to be installed in an approved location. The key box shall
be of an approved type listed in accordance with UL 1037, and shall contain
keys to gain necessary access as required by the fire code official. Key boxes
shall be provided on all high-rise stairwell exit discharges and on all Group I
occupancy exit doors as required by the fire code official.
   Revise Section 903.1 to read as follows:
   General. Automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this section. An
automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in all Groups A, Group B, Group
E, Group F, Group H, Group I, Group M, Group R, Group S and Group U
occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.1.1 to read as follows:
   Alternative protection. In cases where municipal water connections cannot be
provided due to unforeseen situations the fire code official shall designate an
alternative type sprinkler system using tank water per NFPA 13 (2019).
Alternative automatic fire extinguishing systems complying with Section 904
shall be permitted instead of automatic sprinkler protection where recognized
by the applicable standard and approved by the fire code official.
   Review to include Section 903.1.2 to read as follows:
   Variance. The Village Board of Trustees in consultation with the Pingree
Grove & Countryside Fire Protection District Fire Chief and through a majority
vote may approve a variance to the automatic sprinkler system requirements. The
applicant seeking a variance to the automatic sprinkler system requirements
must file a petition prepared by a registered design professional that proposes
an equivalency to the prescriptive requirement and pay filing fees established
by the Board of Trustees.
   Revise Section 903.2.1.1 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group A-
1 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.1.2 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group A-
2 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.1.3 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group A-
3 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.1.4 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group A-
4 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.1.1 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group A-
I occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.3 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group E occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.4 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group F-
1 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.4.1 to read as follows:
   Woodworking operations. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in
all woodworking operations.
   Revise Section 903.2.4.3 to read as follows:
   Group F-1 upholstered furniture or mattresses. An automatic sprinkler system
shall be provided throughout a Group F-1 fire area used for the manufacture of
upholstered furniture or mattresses.
   Revise to include Section 903.2.4.4 to read as follows:
   Group F-2. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group F-
2 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.5 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group H occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.6 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group I occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.7 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group M occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.7.2 to read as follows:
   Group M upholstered furniture or mattresses. An automatic sprinkler system
shall be provided throughout a Group M fire area where the area used for the
display and sale of upholstered furniture or mattresses.
   Revise Section 903.2.8 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group R occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.9 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group S-
1 occupancies.
   Revise Section 903.2.9.1 to read as follows:
   Repair garages. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
all buildings used as repair garages.
   Revise Section 903.2.9.2 to read as follows:
   Bulk storage of tires. Buildings and structures used for the bulk storage of
tires shall be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in
accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.
   Revise Section 903.2.9.4 to read as follows:
   Group S-1 upholstered furniture and mattresses. An automatic sprinkler
system shall be provided throughout a Group S-1 fire area where the area is
used for the storage of upholstered furniture or mattresses.
   Revise Section 903.2.10 to read as follows:
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in all Group S-2 occupancies
and within buildings containing a Group S-2 fire area.
   Delete Section 903.2.11
   Delete Sections 903.2.11.1 through 903.2.11.6.
   Delete Table 903.2.11.6.
   Subsection 903.3
   ADD:   The use of XL thin wall pipe is not allowed, only schedule 10 or
greater shall be permitted.
   Subsection 903.3.5 Water Supplies. (Page 9-11 Add and amend to read as
follows).
   ADD:   Water supplies for automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this
section. The potable water supply shall be protected against backflow in
accordance with the requirements of this section and the International Plumbing
Code. Hydrant water flow data used for the design of any sprinkler system shall
be less than 1 year old.
      Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrant locations shall comply with the following
conditions.
      1.   One fire hydrant shall be located within 100 feet of all fire
department sprinkler and standpipe connection(s).
      2.   At least two (2) fire hydrants shall be located within three hundred
(300) feet of all buildings.
      3.   Fire hydrants shall be located along public streets so that no
portion of the perimeter building will be over 300 feet from a fire hydrant.
Where this is not possible, additional hydrants shall be located on the
premises accessible to motorized fire apparatus.
      4.   Fire hydrants shall be located that:
         a.   Access to fire hydrants shall be by all-weather roadways adequate
in width, clearance and strength for fire fighting purposes. Such routes shall
be maintained accessible during all seasons of the year. Legal provisions shall
be required for private roads. Pumper outlets shall face such roadways.
         b.   Hydrants should be located within ten (10) feet from all-weather
roadways. At no time shall the closest part of the hydrant be setback less than
three (3) feet from the curb line.
         c.   Hydrants shall be located a minimum fifty (50) feet from the
building to be protected or at an approved location by the Fire Code Official.
      5.   Fire hydrants used in conjunction with water supplies shall be
approved by the Village of Pingree Grove and shall be installed at the same
time the water main is installed. All hydrants shall have a minimum six (6)
inch inlet, a four- and one-half inch (4 ½") discharge port and two- two- and
one-half inch discharge ports which are equipped with National Standard Hose
coupling threads. The hydrant shall open "left handed". Discharge ports shall
face the adjacent roadway and shall be installed at sixteen (16) to twenty-four
(24) inches above adjacent grade as measure to the bottom of the steamer port.
      6.   Fire hydrants shall be protected from accidental damage by approved
methods when located in areas subject to vehicular damage. All protective
devices shall be located so as not to obstruct the normal operations of the
fire hydrant.
      7.   Plans showing fire hydrant placement and water main size and
location shall be submitted to the Fire Prevention Bureau for approval prior to
installation.
   Subsection 903.3.5.1 Domestic services (Page 9-11, add to end of subsection-
line 4)
   ADD:   Domestic water services and associated shut-off valves shall be
separate from the water supply for automatic sprinkler system and shall be
separated on the outside of the building or structure being served, unless
otherwise approved by the building official.
   Subsection 903.3.8.1.1 Limited area sprinkler systems. (Page 9-11, Insert as
first sentence.)
   ADD:   Limited area sprinkler systems are only allowed with approval of the
fire code official.
   Subsection 903.3.8.5 Hydraulic Calculations Added to read as follows:
   ADD:   A minimum of 10% or 5 psi (whichever is greater) minimum safety
factor shall be provided in the fire protection system hydraulic calculations.
The system demand shall be 5 psi minimum below the seasonal low water flow test
supply.
   Each hydraulically calculated area, on each drawing, shall be provided with
a copy of the hydraulic nameplate.
   Subsection 903.4 Sprinkler system monitoring and alarms. (Page 9-12) delete
exceptions one, two and three.
   DELETE: Exception number 1, 2, and 3.
   Subsection 903.4.2 Alarms (Page 9-12, add to the end of the paragraph).
   ADD:   Provide an outside UL Listed weather tight visual device over the
fire department sprinkler connection. This device shall be equipped with a blue
lens.
   ADD:   Audio visual devices shall be provided, seen and heard in all areas
of every building. All sprinklered buildings shall be provided with audio
visual devices. Existing buildings shall be required to bring any deficient
areas up to code upon any building additions or alterations excluding cosmetic
only alterations subject to the Fire Code Official's approval.
   ADD:   Fire sprinkler system inspector's valves shall be accessible at all
times and located no more than 6 feet above the finished floor. On multiple
riser systems test valves shall be marked as to which riser and area it tests.
   ADD:   Installation In multiple story buildings floor control valves with
water flow switches shall be provided for each floor.
   ADD:   Where automatic sprinklers provide protection to an area with an
approved flow switch interconnected to the fire alarm system protected by the
zoned sprinkler system, the fire department may require additional smoke
detectors for a more rapid means to identify the location of smoke or fire.
   Subsection 904.3.5 Monitoring. Delete:
   ADD:   All kitchen hood suppression systems shall be monitored by a building
fire alarm system and indicated as a separate zone.
   Subsection 907
   Delete: All exceptions. All buildings, except single-family residences,
shall require an approve, monitored fire alarm system.
   ADD:   All fire alarm systems shall be of the addressable type and shall be
installed per NFPA 72 (2019) unless otherwise approved by the fire code
official.
   ADD:   All fire alarm panels shall be equipped with U.L. Listed reverse
polarity terminals. All fire alarm panels shall provide a minimum of 60 hours
of battery backup service in the case of A/C power failure.
   ADD:   At any time, a fire alarm panel or connected equipment becomes
inoperative due to age, extent of repairs, and is required to be replaced, the
fire code official may require the fire alarm system for the entire building to
be brought up to current code requirements.
   ADD:   All fire alarm control panels shall be installed near the fire
department sprinkler risers with a fully functioning remote annunciator panel
located within 10 feet of the main entrance at a location approved by the
Village. The remote annunciator panel shall be capable of alarm silence and
reset. No code type annunciator panels are allowed.
         Exception: Manual fire alarm boxes are not required in Use Group M
where the building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system
and the alarm notification appliances will activate upon sprinkler water flow.
         All required fire detection and suppression systems shall be
supervised by an approved remote station system of the Village of Pingree Grove
in accordance with NFPA 72 2019). Exceptions:
            I.   Underground gate valves with roadway boxes.
   INSERT: All new radio fire alarm systems installed within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the Authority Having Jurisdiction shall transmit trouble,
supervisory, and fire signals via a wireless transmitter in accordance with
NFPA 72(2019). Only equipment certified and approved by the Authority Having
Jurisdictions designated proprietary agent may be installed. The designated
proprietary agent shall be the only authorized installer and repair service for
the approved radio transmitters.
   Subsection 907.2.1 Group A (Page 9-21, Delete subsection and insert new
subsection).
   DELETE: Entire subsection.
   INSERT:   A fire alarm system in Group A occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72(2019) as regulated by the Village of
Pingree Grove.
   Subsection 907.2.2 Group B. (Page 9-22, Delete subsection and insert new
subsection).
   DELETE: Entire Subsection.
   INSERT:   A fire alarm system in Group B occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72(2019) as regulated by the Village of
Pingree Grove.
   Subsection 907.2.3 Group E, (Page 9-22, Delete subsection and insert new
subsection).
   DELETE: Entire Subsection.
   INSERT:   A fire alarm system in Group E occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72(2019) as regulated by the Village of
Pingree Grove.
   Subsection 907.2.4 Group F (Page 9-22, Delete subsection and insert new
subsection).
   DELETE: Entire Subsection.
   INSERT:   A fire alarm system in Group F occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72(2019) as regulated by the Village of
Pingree Grove.
   Subsection 907.2.5 Group H (Page 9-22-23, Delete subsection and insert new
subsection).
   DELETE: Entire Subsection.
   INSERT: A fire alarm system in Group H occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72(2019) as regulated by the Village of
Pingree Grove.
   Subsection 907.2.6 Group I. (Page 9-23-24, Delete subsection and insert new
subsection.
   DELETE: Entire Subsection.
   INSERT:   A fire alarm system in Group I occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72(2019) as regulated by the Village of
Pingree Grove.
   Subsection 907.2.7 Group M. (Page 9-24, Delete subsection and insert new
subsection).
   DELETE: Entire Subsection.
   INSERT:   A fire alarm system in Group M occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72(2019) as regulated by the Village of
Pingree Grove.
   Subsection 907.2.8 Group R-1 (Page 9-24, Delete subsection and insert new
subsection).
   DELETE: Entire Subsection.
   INSERT:   A fire alarm system in Group R-1 occupancies shall be installed
and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72(2019) as regulated by the Village of
Pingree Grove.
   Subsection 907.2.9 Group R-2 (Page 9-24 - 25, Delete subsection and insert
new subsection).
   DELETE: Entire Subsection.
   INSERT:   A fire alarm system in Group R-2 occupancies shall be installed
and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72(2019) as regulated by the Village of
Pingree Grove.
   Subsection 907.2.10 Group S (Page 9-25, Insert new subsection).
   INSERT:   A fire alarm system in Group S occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72(2019) as regulated by the Village of
Pingree Grove.
   Subsection 907.6.4 Zones, (Page 9-32, insert new subsection).
   INSERT:   All fire alarm systems shall be capable of zone disconnects at the
main fire alarm control panel. Disconnection of a zone shall cause the fire
alarm system to transmit a trouble signal.
   INSERT:   Multi-tenant buildings will be "ring by tenant" and shall include
weather-tight clear outside strobe lights over the entrance to each tenant
space as directed by the Fire Code Official. All outside strobes shall provide
a minimum of 75 candelas.
   Subsection 910.1 General (Page 9-42 - Smoke and Heat Vents - Add to the end
of subsection paragraph, delete exception).
   ADD:   Buildings or portions thereof shall be provided with mechanical smoke
exhaust systems in all occupancies of Groups A, B, E, F, I, M, and Shaving more
than 30,000 square feet (2787 square meters) in floor area.
   DELETE: Entire Exception.
   Subsection 910.2.1 Groups F-1 and S-1 (Page 9-42, Smoke and Heat Vents-
Where required- Delete entire subsection and insert new subsection).
   DELETE: Entire Subsection.
   INSERT:   Groups F and S. Building and portions thereof used as a Group For
S occupancy having more than 30,00 square feet (2787 Square meters) in floor
area.
   Subsection 913 Fire Pumps:
   ADD:   An OS&Y control valve or butterfly valve shall be located on all fire
pump test headers. All fire pump installations shall provide an outside test
header.
   ADD:   Provide an outside access door to the sprinkler riser valve room and
fire pump room. This room shall also be equipped with an interior access door
that swings in the direction of egress. Egress door(s) shall be equipped with
panic hardware.
   ADD:   Provide a minimum 2-hour U.L. rated assembly for all fire pump rooms.
All fire pump rooms shall be provided with an approved doorway from the outside
and a door from the room to the interior of the structure.
   Subsection 1007.1 Accessible means of egress required (Page 10-9, Add to end
of subsection and Delete Exception No. 1).
   ADD:   Accessible means of egress shall comply with the current version of
the Illinois Accessibility Code.
         DELETE: Exceptions No. I.
   Subsection 1008.2 Illumination. (Page 10-10, Delete first sentence in its
entirety and insert following wording.)
   INSERT:   Exit signs shall be internally illuminated.
   Subsection 1010.1.2.1 Door swing. (Page 10-14 end of second paragraphs and
insert in it place).
   DELETE: "where serving an occupant load of 50 or more persons or Group H
occupancy."
   INSERT:   "and be provided with an approved automatic door closing device".
   Subsection 1010.2.4 Locks and latches (Page 10-16 - 17, Delete exceptions 2,
2.1, and 2.2).
   DELETE: Entire exception 2 and 3.
   Section 101 I.I. Stairways -page 10-22 add.
   ADD:   A sign shall be provided at each floor landing in interior vertical
exit enclosures connecting more than two stories designating the floor level,
terminus of the top and bottom of the stair enclosure and the identification of
the stair in accordance with the Village of Pingree Grove's Emergency Building
Egress Identification system. The signage shall also state the story of, and
the direction to the exit discharge and the availability of roof access from
the stairway for the fire department. The sign shall be located five feet above
the floor landing in a position which is readily visible when the doors are in
the open and closed position.
   Subsection 1015. l Guards-Opening limitations (Page 10-30, Add to end of
Subsection).
   ADD:   Required guards shall not be constructed with horizontal rails or
other ornamental pattern that results in a ladder effect.
   Subsection 1205.2 Access and Pathways. Exceptions.
   DELETE: Exception 1 and 2.
   Subsection 1205.2.1.
   DELETE: Exception 1 and 2.
   Subsection 1205.2.1.1 Pathways to ridge.
   DELETE: Everything after the first sentence.
   Subsection 1205.2.1.2 Setbacks at ridge.
   DELETE: Entire subsection.
   ADD: Photovoltaic arrays shall have a setback of not less than 36 inches
(457 mm) wide is required on both sides of a horizontal ridge.
   Subsection 1205.2.1.3 Alternative setbacks at ridge.
   DELETE: Entire subsection.
(Ord. 2004-01, 1-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-O-17, 8-5-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
10-2-2-6: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following provisions shall further apply and shall supersede any and all
references listed within the 2021 edition of the International Property
Maintenance Code (2021 IPMC):
   Revise Section 101.1 to insert "The village of Pingree Grove" as the name of
jurisdiction.
   Revise Section 104 in its entirety and replace it with the following: The
fees will be calculated using Title 10, Chapter 4 of the village code.
   Section 111 Means Of Appeal: Delete 111.1 through 111.8 and insert: See the
appeals section in the building code.
   Section 108 Means of Appeal in its entirety and insert:
   Section 108.1 Application for Appeal: Any person shall have the right to
appeal a decision of the code official to the board of appeals. An application
for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the
rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equivalent form of
construction is to be used.
   Section 108.2 Membership of Board: The board of appeals shall be comprised
of the village president and board of trustees of the village of Pingree Grove.
   Section 108.3 Open Hearing: All hearings before the board shall be open to
the public and in compliance with the provisions of the open meetings act. The
appellant, the appellant's representative, the code official and any person
whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
   Section 108.4 Board Decision: The board shall modify or reverse the decision
of the code official by a concurring vote of a majority of its sitting members.
   Section 302.4 Weeds: Delete section and add "See village ordinance, title 5,
chapter 4 of the village code."
   Section 304.14 Insert screens from "May 1st to October 15th".
   Section 602.3 Heat supply required from "September 15th to June 1st".
   Section 602.4 Heat supply required from "September 15th to June 1st".
   Delete all references to the International Plumbing Code.
   Insert “All plumbing systems shall be designed and installed in compliance
with the latest edition of the State of Illinois Plumbing Code."
(Ord. 2004-01, 1-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2024-O-17, 8-5-2024, eff. 10-1-
2024)
10-2-2-7: FUEL GAS CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following provisions shall further apply and shall supersede any and all
references listed within the 2021 edition of the International Fuel Gas Code
(2021 IFGC):
   Revise Section 101.1 to insert "The village of Pingree Grove" as the name of
jurisdiction.
   Revise Section 101.3 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
Appendices. Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically
adopted. The village adopts the following Appendices: A (Sizing and Capacity of
Gas Piping), B (Sizing of Venting Systems Serving Appliances Equipped with
Draft Hoods, Category I Appliances and Appliances Listed for use with Type B
Vents), C (Exit Terminals of Mechanical Draft and Direct-Vent Venting Systems),
and D (Recommended Procedure for Safety Inspection of an Existing Appliance
Installation).
   Revise Section 109 in its entirety and replace it with the following: The
fees will be calculated using Title 10, Chapter 4 of the village code.
   Delete Section 113 Means of Appeal in its entirety.
   Section 114 Board of Appeal revised in its entirety and insert:
   Section 114.1 Application for Appeal: Any person shall have the right to
appeal a decision of the code official to the board of appeals. An application
for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the
rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equivalent form of
construction is to be used.
   Section 114.2 Membership of Board: The board of appeals shall be comprised
of the village president and board of trustees of the village of Pingree Grove.
   Section 114.3 Open Hearing: All hearings before the board shall be open to
the public and in compliance with the provisions of the open meetings act. The
appellant, the appellant's representative, the code official and any person
whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
   Section 114.4 Board Decision: The board shall modify or reverse the decision
of the code official by a concurring vote of a majority of its sitting members.
   Delete all references to International Plumbing Code and insert “All
plumbing systems shall be designed and installed in compliance with the latest
edition of the State of Illinois Plumbing Code.”
(Ord. 2004-01, 1-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-O-17, 8-5-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
10-2-2-8: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following provisions shall further apply and shall supersede any and all
references listed within the 2021 edition of the International Energy
Conservation Code:
   Section 101.1 Insert "village of Pingree Grove".
   Revise Section C101.1 to insert "The village of Pingree Grove" as the name
of jurisdiction.
   Revise Section R101.1 to insert "The village of Pingree Grove" as the name
of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2004-01, 1-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-O-17, 8-5-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
10-2-2-9: SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following provisions shall further apply and shall supersede any and all
references listed within the 2021 edition of the International Swimming Pool
and Spa Code (2021 ISPSC).
   Revise Section 101.1 to insert "The village of Pingree Grove" as the name of
jurisdiction.
   Revise Section 202 to include the following definitions:
   SWIMMING POOLS. Any structure intended for public or private swimming,
recreational bathing or wading that contains water over 18 inches (457.2 mm)
deep. This includes in-ground, above-ground, and on-ground pools; hot tubs;
spas and fixed-in-place wading pools.
(Ord. 2024-O-17, 8-5-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
10-2-2-10: LIFE SAFETY CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following provisions shall further apply and shall supersede any and all
references listed within the 2021 edition of the NFPA 101 (2021 Life Safety
Code).
   The following chapters are deleted: Chapter 12 New Assembly Occupancies,
Chapter 14 New Educational Occupancies, Chapter 16 New Day-Care Occupancies,
Chapter 18 New Health Care Occupancies, Chapter 20 New Ambulatory Health Care
Occupancies, Chapter 22 New Detention and Correctional Occupancies, Chapter 28
New Hotels and Dormitories, Chapter 30 New Apartment Buildings, Chapter 32 New
Residential Board and Care Occupancies, Chapter 36 New Mercantile Occupancies,
and Chapter 38 New Business Occupancies.
   Revise Section 1.3.1 in its entirety to read as follows: New and Existing
Buildings and Structures. The Code shall apply to existing buildings and
existing structures. New construction shall be designed and constructed to
demonstrate compliance with the adopted editions of the International Building
Code and International Fire Code.
(Ord. 2024-O-17, 8-5-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
10-2-3: PENALTY:
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(2011 Code; amd. Ord. 2024-O-17, 8-5-2024, eff. 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 3
BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Building Permit
10-3-1-1:Permit Required; Failure To Obtain
10-3-1-2:Application For Permit; Required Documents
10-3-1-3:Licensed Professionals; Certification Compliance
10-3-1-4:Action On Application
10-3-1-5:Transfer Of Permit
10-3-1-6:Renewal Or Extension Of Permit In Hardship Cases
10-3-1-7:Posting Permit
10-3-1-8:Conditions Of Permit
10-3-1-9:Expiration Of Permit
10-3-1-10:Revocation Of Permit
10-3-1-11:Existing Permits
10-3-2: Work In Public Streets; Permit And Bond
10-3-3: Certificate Of Use And Occupancy
10-3-1: BUILDING PERMIT:
10-3-1-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; FAILURE TO OBTAIN:
   A.   It is unlawful to construct any building or structure in the village
where the cost of such construction exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00) or to
alter or remodel any building or structure so as to change the bearing walls,
beams, supports, or the roof thereof, without having first procured a permit
therefor. (1990 Code §16.106)
   B.   It is unlawful to construct, enlarge, alter or demolish a structure; or
change the occupancy of a building or structure, requiring a greater strength,
exitway or sanitary provisions; or to change to another use; or to install or
alter any equipment for which provision is made or the installation of which is
regulated by this title, without first filing an application with the building
commissioner in writing and obtaining the required permit therefor; except,
that "ordinary repairs", as defined in section
10-1-3 of this title, shall be exempt from this requirement. (1990 Code
§16.210)
   C.   If any person commences any work on a building or structure before
obtaining the necessary permit from the building department, he shall be
subject to the penalty prescribed in section
10-1-9 of this title. Where work is commenced before a permit is obtained, the
permit fees shall be doubled 1 . (1990 Code §16.211)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-4-9 of this title.
10-3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:
   A.   Form: The application for a permit shall be submitted in such form as
the building commissioner may prescribe and shall be accompanied by the
required fee as prescribed by ordinance 1 .
   B.   By Whom Made: Application for a permit shall be made by the owner or
lessee of the building or structure, or agent of either, or by the licensed
engineer or architect employed in connection with the proposed work. If the
application is made by a person other than the owner in fee, it shall be
accompanied by a duly verified affidavit of the owner or the qualified person
making the application that the proposed work is authorized by the owner in fee
and that the applicant is authorized to make such application. The full names
and addresses of the owner, lessee, and applicant and of the responsible
officers, if the owner or lessee is a corporation, shall be stated in the
application.
   C.   Contents Of Application:
      1.   The application shall contain a general description of the proposed
work, its location, the use and occupancy of all parts of the building or
structure and of all portions of the site or lot not covered by the building or
structure. (1990 Code §16.210)
      2.   All applications for building permits shall, in addition to
containing the information required by the building department, be accompanied
by plot and construction plans, drawn to scale, showing the actual shape and
dimensions of the parcel of land to be built upon; the exact sizes and
locations on the parcel of land of buildings already existing, if any; the
exact size and location on the parcel of land of the building or buildings to
be erected or altered; the existing use of buildings on the parcel of land, if
any; the intended use of each building or buildings or parts thereof; the
number of families the building is designed to accommodate; the location and
number of required off street parking and off street loading spaces; exact
location of trees protected by county or village regulations and such other
information with regard to the parcel of land and existing and proposed
structures as may be necessary to determine compliance with and provide for the
enforcement of these regulations. (1990 Code §16.210; amd. 2011 Code)
      3.   The application shall be accompanied by a survey of the lot, made by
a land surveyor licensed in Illinois. All property stakes shall be in place at
the time of application. The survey shall show the proposed structure as it is
positioned on the lot with front, side, and rear yard dimensions and building
setback lines. Upon completion of the foundation and prior to any construction
beyond the foundation stage, a survey verifying the elevation of the top of the
foundation, front, both sides, and the rear setbacks from their respective lot
lines, signed and sealed by a registered Illinois land surveyor, shall be
submitted and approved by the building commissioner.
   D.   Plans And Specifications: The application for the permit shall be
accompanied by not less than two (2) copies of specifications and of plans
drawn to no less than one-eighth inch (1/8") scale, with sufficient clarity and
detail dimensions to show the nature and character of the work to be performed.
When quality of materials is essential for conformity to this title, specific
information shall be given to establish such quality, and this title shall not
be cited, or the term "legal" or its equivalent used, as a substitute for
specific information. The building commissioner may waive the requirement for
filing plans when the work involved is of a minor nature.
   E.   Recorded Property: At the time of applying for a permit for the
erection of, alteration of, addition to, change of occupancy or occupants, or
moving of any building or structure, the applicant shall submit to the building
commissioner a plot of survey of the lot by an Illinois registered land
surveyor, showing the dimensions of the same and the position to be occupied by
the proposed building, or by the building to be altered or added to, or by the
building to be moved thereon, and the position of any other building or
buildings that may be on the lot.
   F.   Site Plan: There shall be a site plan showing to scale the size and
location of all the new construction and all existing structures on the site,
distances from lot lines, the established street grades and the proposed
finished grades, and it shall be drawn in accordance with an accurate boundary
line survey. In the case of demolition, the plot plan shall show all
construction to be demolished and the location and size of any existing
structures and construction that are to remain on the site or plot.
   G.   Engineering Details: The building commissioner may require adequate
details of structural, mechanical and electrical work including computations,
stress diagrams and other essential technical data to be filed. All engineering
plans and computations shall bear the signature and seal of the engineer or
architect responsible for the design. Plans for buildings shall indicate how
required structural and fire resistance rating integrity will be maintained and
where a penetration will be made for electrical, mechanical, plumbing and
communication conduits, pipes and systems.
   H.   Amendments To Application: Subject to the limitations of amendments to
a plan, the application or other records accompanying the same may be filed at
any time before completion of the work for which the permit is sought or
issued, and such amendments shall be deemed part of the original application
and shall be filed therewith.
   I.   Time Limitation Of Application: An application for a permit for any
proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned ninety (90) days after
date of filing, unless such application has been diligently prosecuted or a
permit shall have been issued; except, that for reasonable cause, the building
commissioner may grant one or more extensions of time for additional periods
not exceeding ninety (90) days after date of filing, unless such application
has been diligently prosecuted or a permit shall have been issued; except, that
for reasonable cause, the building commissioner may grant one or more
extensions of time for additional periods not exceeding ninety (90) days each.
(1990 Code §16.210)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 4 of this title.
10-3-1-3: LICENSED PROFESSIONALS; CERTIFICATION COMPLIANCE:
   A.   No plans shall be approved for permit unless such plans are signed and
sealed by an architect licensed to practice architecture, as provided by the
Illinois architecture practice act 1 , or by a structural engineer licensed to
practice structural engineering, as provided by the Illinois structural
engineering practice act 2 , or by a registered engineer licensed to practice
professional engineering, as provided by the Illinois professional engineering
practice act 3 ; provided, however, that the person who signs and seals such
plans shall be permitted to do so within the limitations of the particular act
under which he is licensed to practice; and provided, further, that plans for
installations which involve the design of or changes in the supporting
structure or which materially affect the structural loadings must be signed and
sealed by an architect or structural engineer duly licensed as aforesaid. (1990
Code §16.210; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   It is unlawful for any architect or structural engineer or professional
engineer or other person permitted under the laws of the state to make drawings
and plans, to prepare or submit to the building commissioner, for his approval,
any final drawings or plans for a structure which do not comply with the
requirements of the building provisions of this title. It shall be the duty of
the building commissioner to require that all drawings and plans submitted to
him for approval for any building or structure shall be accompanied by a
certificate of such architect or structural engineer or professional engineer
preparing such drawings and plans, that the drawings and plans comply with the
requirements in the building provisions of this title. (1990 Code §16.210)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 305/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 340/1 et seq.
3 3. 225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.
10-3-1-4: ACTION ON APPLICATION:
   A.   The building commissioner shall examine or cause to be examined all
applications for permits and amendments thereto within a reasonable time after
filing. If the application or the plans do not conform to the requirements of
all pertinent laws, he may reject such application in writing, stating the
reasons therefor. If he is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the
requirements of this title or such other laws and ordinances applicable
thereto, he shall issue a permit therefor as soon as possible.
   B.   The building commissioner shall affix his signature to every permit, or
he may authorize a subordinate to affix such signature thereto.
   C.   The building commissioner shall stamp or endorse in writing both sets
of corrected plans "approved", and one set of such approved plans shall be
retained by him and the other set shall be kept at the building site, open to
inspection of the building commissioner, or his authorized representative, at
all reasonable times.
   D.   The building commissioner may issue a permit for the construction of
foundations or any other part of a building or structure before the entire
plans and specifications for the whole building or structure have been
submitted, provided adequate information and detailed statements have been
filed complying with all the pertinent requirements of all applicable codes.
The holder of such permit for the foundation or other part of a building or
structure shall proceed at his own risk with the building operation and without
assurance that a permit for the entire structure will be granted. (1990 Code
§16.211)
10-3-1-5: TRANSFER OF PERMIT:
A permit may not be transferred by the person to whom it is issued to another
person without the written approval of the building commissioner. A fee
according to the fee schedule 1  may be charged when such a transfer is
effected. (1990 Code §16.211)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 4 of this title.
10-3-1-6: RENEWAL OR EXTENSION OF PERMIT IN HARDSHIP CASES:
Where it is shown that a hardship would occur regarding these requirements, the
building commissioner, upon request, may renew or extend the permit without
payment of a fee. Such request for renewal or extension shall be in writing by
the permittee 1 . (1990 Code §16.211)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-4-10 of this title for fee to extend.
10-3-1-7: POSTING PERMIT:
A true copy of the building permit shall be kept on the site of operations,
open to public inspection, during the entire time of prosecution of the work
and until the completion of the same. (1990 Code §16.211)
10-3-1-8: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
   A.   Payment Of Fees; Nonrefundable: A permit shall not be issued until the
fees prescribed in this title have been paid 2 . Permit fees are not
refundable.
   B.   Compliance With Provisions: The permit shall be a license to proceed
with the work and shall not be construed to violate, cancel or set aside any of
the provisions of this title, except as specifically stipulated by modification
or legally granted variation as described in the application.
   C.   Compliance With Permit: All work shall conform to the approved
application and plans for which the permit has been issued and any approved
amendments and/or variations thereto.
   D.   Compliance With Plot Site Plan; Changes:
      1.   All new work shall be located strictly in accordance with the
approved plot site plan.
      2.   A lot shall not be changed, increased or diminished in area from
that shown on the official plot site plan, unless a revised plan showing such
changes, accompanied by the necessary affidavit of the owner or applicant,
shall have been filed and approved.
   E.   Supervision: Each building, other than one-family and two- family
residential construction, shall be constructed under the supervision of an
architect or engineer who meets the requirements set forth in section
10-3-1-3 of this chapter and who shall be responsible for its erection in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications. (1990 Code §16.212)
 
Notes
2 2. See chapter 4 of this title.
10-3-1-9: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
Every permit shall become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is
not commenced within one year after its issuance 1 , or if the work authorized
by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six (6) months after
the time that work is commenced; provided, that, for cause, one or more
extensions of time, for periods not exceeding one year each, may be allowed by
application, in writing, to the building commissioner. Lack of requests for
inspections shall constitute abandonment of work. In no case shall a permit be
valid for a longer period of time than two (2) years. (1990 Code §16.211; amd.
2011 Code)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 10-2-2-1 (§ 107.10(4)) and
  10-4-11 of this title and section
  11-1-3 of this code.
10-3-1-10: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The building commissioner may revoke a permit or approval issued under the
provisions of this title in case of any false statement or misrepresentation of
fact in the application or on the plans on which the permit or approval was
based. A building permit issued in error shall not confer any rights or
privileges to the applicant to proceed with construction, and the village shall
have the power to revoke such permit. (1990 Code §16.211)
10-3-1-11: EXISTING PERMITS:
This title shall not require changes in the plans, construction or designated
use of a building for which a lawful permit has been previously issued or
otherwise lawfully authorized and the construction of which has been actively
prosecuted within ninety (90) days after the effective date hereof and
completed with dispatch. (1990 Code §16.211)
10-3-2: WORK IN PUBLIC STREETS; PERMIT AND BOND:
In addition to other permits, a street work permit must be obtained from the
village engineer or such other person as he shall designate, and liability bond
filed with the village for all work done in the public street or right of way,
in accordance with the provisions of this code relating to excavations in
streets 2 . (1990 Code §16.107)
 
Notes
2 2. See title 8, chapter 1, article A of this code.
10-3-3: CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY 3 :
   A.   New Buildings: A building or structure hereafter erected shall not be
used or occupied in whole or in part until a certificate of use and occupancy
shall have been issued by the building commissioner.
   B.   Architect's Or Engineer's Certificate: On completion of the
construction prior to the issuance of the certificate of use and occupancy, the
supervising architect or engineer who meets the requirements set forth in
section
10-3-1-3 of this chapter shall file a written statement to the building
commissioner certifying that the construction has been performed in accordance
with the building code and with the plans and specifications approved by the
building commissioner.
   C.   Alteration Of Buildings: A building or structure hereafter enlarged,
extended or altered to change from one use group to another or to a different
use within the same use group, in whole or in part, and a building or structure
hereafter altered for which a certificate of use and occupancy has not been
previously issued, shall not be occupied or used until the certificate has been
issued by the building commissioner.
   D.   Existing Buildings: A certificate of occupancy for any existing
building may be obtained by applying in writing to the building commissioner
and supplying the information and data necessary to determine compliance with
this title for the occupancy intended. When necessary, in the opinion of the
building commissioner, two (2) sets of detailed drawings or a general
inspection, or both, may be required. When, upon examination and/or inspection,
it is found that the building conforms to the provisions of this title for such
occupancy, a certificate of occupancy may be issued.
   E.   Changes In Use: After a change of use has been made in a building or
structure, the reestablishment of a prior use that would not have been legal in
a new building of the same type of construction is prohibited unless the
building complies with all applicable provisions of this title and other
applicable codes and/or ordinances. A change from one prohibited use, for which
a permit has been granted, to another prohibited use shall be deemed a
violation.
   F.   Temporary Occupancy 2 : Upon the request in writing of the holder of a
permit, the building commissioner may issue a temporary certificate of
occupancy for a building or structure, or part thereof, before the entire work
covered by the permit has been completed, provided such portion or portions may
be occupied safely prior to full completion of the building or structure
without endangering life or public welfare. Time limit shall be imposed by the
building commissioner.
   G.   Issuance Of Certificate; Contents: When a building or structure is
entitled thereto, the building commissioner may issue a certificate of use and
occupancy within ten (10) days after written application and/or inspection and
approval. The certificate shall certify compliance with the provisions of this
title and other applicable codes and the purpose for which the building or
structure may be used in its several parts. (1990 Code §16.213)
 
Notes
3 3. See also section
  11-3-3 of this code.
2 1. See also section
  10-2-2-1 (§ 110.3.2.1) of this title.
CHAPTER 4
PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES AND BONDS
SECTION:
10-4-1: New Construction
10-4-2: Water Meters
10-4-3: Building Permit For Remodeling; Electrical, HVAC And Plumbing Work
10-4-4: Miscellaneous Permit Fees
10-4-5: Plan Review Fees
10-4-6: Additional Fees For Commercial Buildings
10-4-7: Grading And Excavation Permit
10-4-8: Performance/Road Bond
10-4-9: Work Started Without Permit
10-4-10: Extension Of Permit
10-4-11: Annual Elevator Inspection Fees
10-4-12: Consultant Fees
10-4-13: Violation; Penalties
10-4-14: Amendments
10-4-1: NEW CONSTRUCTION:
Each application for a building permit for new construction shall be
accompanied by payment of building permit fees equal to the sum of the
following:
   A.   Base Fee For Gross Floor Area:
      1.   The base fee shall be computed on the basis of the number of square
feet of gross floor area (outside dimensions) of all floors in accordance with
the following schedule (for all floors including basements and garages):
         a.   Detached and attached single-family and multi-family residences:
One dollar twenty five cents ($1.25) per square foot for the first two thousand
(2,000) square feet of gross floor area, and fifty cents ($0.50) for each
additional square foot of gross floor area.
         b.   All other uses, including, but not limited to, storage,
mercantile, industrial and business buildings and the like: Thirty cents
($0.30) per square foot of gross floor area for the first ten thousand (10,000)
square feet of gross floor area, and fifteen cents ($0.15) per square foot for
all additional floor area.
      2.   The fee schedule in this subsection does not include plan review or
the utilization of outside consultants such as building plan review and/or
inspections, engineering plan review and/or inspections, planning plan review
and/or inspections or other consultants as determined by the village. All fees
incurred by such consultants shall be paid by the owner/permit applicant.
   B.   Additional Fees: In addition to the base building permit fee in
subsection A of this section, the building permit fee shall include the
aggregate of the following:
      1.   Sanitary Sewer And Water System Connection Fee For Residential
Units: A fee for connecting to the village sanitary sewer and water systems for
a residential unit shall be one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for
each connection 1 .
      2.   Sanitary Sewer And Water Connection Fee For Nonresidential Units: A
fee for connecting to the village sanitary sewer and water system for a
nonresidential unit shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per population
equivalency, the amount of which shall be determined by the village engineer
based on project use.
      3.   Reinspection Fee: A reinspection fee of seventy five dollars
($75.00) per residential and one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per commercial
inspection shall be charged in every instance where the contractor/developer
requesting the inspection fails to meet the requirements of this code or the
plans and specifications or fails to keep an appointment with a building
inspector. (Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 9-4-3 and
  9-5-3 of this code.
10-4-2: WATER METERS:
All meters shall be capable of remote reporting. Water meter fees shall be
charged pursuant to the following:
   A.   Inspection: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   Meters:
Type Of Equipment Size Fee
Type Of Equipment Size           Fee
                  3/4 inch M25   $ 450.00
Disc meters       1 inch M70     750.00
                  11/2 inch M120 1,000.00
                  2 inch         3,775.00
Compound meters   3 inch         4,220.00
                  4 inch         6,507.00
                  2 inch         373.00
Strainers         3 inch         591.00
                  4 inch         887.00
 
(Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010)
   C.   Remote RTR Fee: The fee in subsection B of this section, plus thirty
dollars ($30.00). (Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010; amd. 2011 Code)
10-4-3: BUILDING PERMIT FOR REMODELING; ELECTRICAL, HVAC AND PLUMBING WORK:
Prior to permit issuance, the permit applicant shall pay a permit fee as
provided for in this section.
Permit Type Residential Non-Residential
Permit Type                         Residential Non-Residential
Remodeling less than $5,000         $50.00      $75.00
Remodeling $5,000-$25,000           $150.00     $200.00
Remodeling over $25,000             $250.00     $325.00
Building work only (non-structural) $35.00      $75.00
Electrical work only                $35.00      $75.00
HVAC work only                      $35.00      $75.00
Plumbing work only                  $35.00      $75.00
 
(Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-O-08, 3-21-2022)
10-4-4: MISCELLANEOUS PERMIT FEES:
All miscellaneous permit fees are inclusive of permit and plan review fees.
Certain inspection fees are included as noted, all other inspection fees are
charged per Section 10-4-11. Each application for a miscellaneous permit shall
be accompanied by payment of the miscellaneous permit fee identified in this
section.
Permit Type Permit Fee
Permit Type                                                   Permit Fee
A. Demolition permits:                                         
   Residential                                              $ 87.50
   Commercial (per building) (includes 1 inspection)        295.00
   Moving building                                          300.00
B. Swimming pools:
   Inground pools (includes up to 8 inspections)            710.00
   Aboveground pools                                        145.00
   Spas/hot tubs                                            100.00
C. Fence (includes 2 inspections)                             135.00
D. Deck (includes 2 inspections)                              185.00
E. Patio (includes 2 inspections)                             135.00
F. Fireplace:
   Prefabricated                                            115.00
   Masonry (includes up to 5 inspections)                   300.00
G. Shed                                                       115.00
H. Residential hot water heater replacement, furnace and A/   75.00
   C condenser replacement (includes 1 inspection)
I. Detached garage                                            142.50
J. Roof:
   Residential - replacement/additional layer (includes 2   110.00
     inspections)
   Commercial - replacement/additional layer:
    Base rate                                              75.00
    Plus rate per square feet of roof area                 0.04
K. Commercial rooftop mechanical units, replacement or new:
   Under 5 tons (does not include smoke detection shutdown) 115.00
   Over 5 tons (does not include smoke detection shutdown)  200.00
L. Storage tanks (above ground or underground)                450.00
M. Lawn sprinkler system                                      115.00
N. Residential fire sprinkler system                          180.00
O. Signs:
   Nonilluminated                                           87.50
   Illuminated                                              115.00
P. Elevator                                                   $325.00
Q. Temporary electric service                                 $55.00
R. Generators and motors:
   Residential base fee:                                    $55.00
   Non-residential base fee:                                $250.00
   10HP and less - all occupancies                          $24.00
   Plus each additional HP over 10 - all occupancies        $2.00
S. Solar panels:
   Residential - roof mount (includes 1 inspection)         $570.00
   Commercial - permit fee per square foot                  $0.50
T. Temporary occupancy permit                                 $500.00
U. Communications tower:
   Without structure                                        $150.00
   With structure                                           $250.00
 
(Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-O-08, 3-21-2022)
10-4-5: PLAN REVIEW FEES:
Each application for permit shall be accompanied by payment of a non-refundable
plan review fee equal to the sum of the following:
Plan Review Type Residential Non-Residential
Plan Review Type                            Residential   Non-Residential
New construction                            $0.30/sq. ft. $0.03/sq. ft.
Residential remodeling                      $0.20/sq. ft. - -
Building review (non-structural)            $25.00        $0.20/sq. ft.
Electrical review                           $25.00        $0.20/sq. ft.
Mechanical review                           $25.00        $0.20/sq. ft.
Plumbing review                             $25.00        $0.20/sq. ft.
Fire safety review                          - -           $0.10/sq. ft.
Fire suppression system (water, foam, etc.) $100.00       $0.10/sq. ft.
Alternate fire suppression system (includes - -           $250.00
inspections)
Fire alarm systems                          - -           $0.02/sq. ft.
Hood & duct fire suppression (includes      - -           $250.00
inspections)
Fire standpipe - non-combination system     - -           $300/riser
Life safety code review (state minimum)     - -           $0.10/ sq. ft.
Zoning                                                    
   New structures                        $125.00       $125.00
   Existing structures                   $75.00        $75.00
Structural engineer review (where required) $150.00/hr.   $150.00/hr.
Re-review                                   $65.00        $65.00
 
(Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-O-08, 3-21-2022; Ord. 2023-O-08, 5-1-
2023)
10-4-6: ADDITIONAL FEES FOR COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS:
Prior to permit issuance, the permit applicant shall pay inspection fees as
provided for in this section.
Inspection Type Residential Non-Residential
Inspection Type                             Residential   Non-Residential
New Construction                            $0.30/sq. ft. Assessed by trade
Remodeling                                  $0.20/sq. ft. Assessed by trade
Elevator                                    $150.00       $150.00
Building (non-structural)                   - -           $0.20/sq. ft.
Electrical                                  - -           $0.20/sq. ft.
Mechanical                                  - -           $0.20/sq. ft.
Plumbing                                    - -           $0.20/sq. ft.
Fire safety                                 - -           $0.10/sq. ft.
Fire suppression system (water, foam, etc.) - -           $0.10/sq. ft.
Fire alarm systems                          - -           $535.00
Life safety code review (state minimum)     - -           $0.10/sq. ft.
All inspections not listed, including signs $45.00        $60.00
Reinspection                                $75.00        $100.00
 
(Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-O-08, 3-21-2022)
10-4-7: GRADING AND EXCAVATION PERMIT:
Any work, which includes bringing fill to a site or an alteration to the
grading and/or drainage of a lot, requires a building permit. The owner shall
submit plans, survey and specifications signed and sealed by a professional
engineer. The fee is one hundred dollars ($100.00) per acre, plus village
engineer fees to review and inspect. An escrow deposit of two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) shall accompany the application. (Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010; amd.
Ord. 2022-O-08, 3-21-2022)
10-4-8: PERFORMANCE/ROAD BOND:
   A.   Bond Amounts Established: Each applicant who applies for a building
permit for the construction of any new building, addition, alteration,
accessory building or any other type of work/permit shall post with the village
a cash performance/road bond.
   1.   Single-Family Homes: Applicants for single-family homes shall post a
cash performance/road bond in the amount of one percent (1%) of the
construction value of the project, not to exceed two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) per permit. Value shall be determined by the cost of construction
as stipulated on the building permit application, or the building commissioner
shall utilize sixty dollars ($60.00) per square foot for construction. The
higher number of the two (2) shall be utilized to determine the performance/
road bond amount.
   2.   Commercial And/Or Industrial Buildings And/Or Site Work: Applicants for
commercial and/or industrial buildings and/or site work such as grading/
drainage, parking lots, etc., as determined by the building commissioner, shall
post a cash performance/road bond in the amount of one percent (1%) of the
construction value of the project, not to exceed ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) per permit. Value shall be determined by the cost of construction
as stipulated on the building permit application, or the building commissioner
shall utilize one hundred dollars ($100.00) per square foot for construction.
The higher number of the two (2) shall be utilized to determine the
performance/road bond amount.
   B.   Refunds: Performance/road bonds shall be refunded to the applicant if
the village building commissioner determines the construction, demolition and/
or other construction work has been completed in compliance with the village
adopted codes and/or amendments and all other applicable rules, regulations and
ordinances of the village and with state law. Otherwise, said performance/road
bond shall be forfeited to the village without prejudice to the rights of the
village to require compliance with this code and all other applicable rules,
regulations and ordinances and with state law. (Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010; amd.
Ord. 2022-O-08, 3-21-2022)
10-4-9: WORK STARTED WITHOUT PERMIT:
Work started without a permit requires payment of a fee equal to one hundred
percent (100%) of the permit and plan review fees. The fee shall be in addition
to all fees charged in connection with a permit 1 . (Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010;
amd. Ord. 2022-O-08, 3-21-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  10-3-1-1C of this title.
10-4-10: EXTENSION OF PERMIT:
A fee equal to the greater of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or ten percent
(10%) of the permit fee shall be charged for all permit extensions. All permits
expire one year from issuance 1 . (Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-O-
08, 3-21-2022)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 10-2-2-1 (§ 107.10(4)) and
  10-3-1-9 of this title and section
  11-1-3 of this code.
10-4-11: ANNUAL ELEVATOR INSPECTION FEES:
   A.   An annual inspection fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per
elevator per inspection shall be charged to the owner of each building in which
an elevator is located within the jurisdiction of the village, with the
exception of those located in public schools. (Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010; amd.
Ord. 2022-O-08, 3-21-2022)
10-4-12: CONSULTANT FEES 1 :
The applicant shall reimburse the village for all fees and expenses charged the
village by consultants retained to review plans, conduct inspections and to
perform testing where deemed necessary by the village. (Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-
2010; amd. Ord. 2022-O-08, 3-21-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 5 and subsection
  11-3-9B9 of this code.
10-4-13: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day a violation of this chapter
exists or is permitted to exist shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary or appropriate to prevent or remedy any violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2022-O-08, 3-21-
2022)
10-4-14: AMENDMENTS:
This chapter and the fee schedule contained herein may be modified by
subsequent village ordinance or resolution at any time after adoption of an
amendment by the corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-
2010; amd. Ord. 2022-O-08, 3-21-2022)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Hours Of Construction
10-5-2: Fences
10-5-3: Driveways
10-5-4: Miscellaneous Regulations
10-5-5: Sheds
10-5-6: Underground Utility Installations
10-5-1: HOURS OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any activity
associated with the preparation of land for development or associated with the
construction, reconstruction, repair or maintenance of a new or existing
building or other structure on weekdays (Monday through Friday) earlier than
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or later than eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., and on
weekends (Saturday and Sunday) earlier than eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or later
than eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., except in case of urgent necessity in the
interest of public health and safety.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects
or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day a violation of this section
exists or is permitted to exist shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary or appropriate to prevent or remedy any violation of
this section.
   C.   This section may be modified by subsequent village ordinance or
resolution at any time, after adoption of an amendment by the corporate
authorities of the village.
(Ord. 2010-06, 3-15-2010; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2024-O-16, 6-3-2024)
10-5-2: FENCES 1 :
   A.   Permit Required: No fence, screen or wall shall be erected without
first securing a permit.
   B.   Location And Height: No fence shall be erected which shall extend
beyond the front property line. All fences must be constructed within the
confines of the property for which the permit is sought, and no fence shall
exceed five feet (5') in height except as provided in the village zoning
ordinance which shall control as to the minimum and maximum height. In
addition, this section shall not apply to limit the height of solid fences,
screens or walls around patios as set forth in subsection C of this section.
   C.   Patio Fences, Screens Or Walls: In residential areas, solid fences,
screens or walls may be erected around the immediate boundaries of patios for
the purpose of securing privacy, provided they do not exceed seven feet (7') in
height and are located not less than three feet (3') from the property line.
   D.   Barbed Wire And Electric Fences:
      1.   No person shall erect any fence along a street, alley or public
place within the village in which barbed wire or any other sharp, pointed or
dangerous material forms a part without prior approval of the village board.
(Ord. 2004-01, 1-19-2004)
      2.   It is unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole
or part of barbed wire, or with any similar materials, designed to cause injury
to person, or any wire charged with electrical current, anywhere within the
village except to protect industrial property, in which case, barbed wire must
be at least six feet (6') above the sidewalk and extend inward of the property
2 . Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this subsection
D2 shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code §§15.117, 15.122; amd. 2011 Code)
   E.   Additional Requirements: The village ordinances shall be consulted for
additional fence requirements 3 . (Ord. 2004-01, 1-19-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  11-5-9 of this code.
2 1. See also subsection
  11-5-9B4 of this code.
3 2. See section
  11-5-9 of this code.
10-5-3: DRIVEWAYS:
See section
12-4F-5 of this code for driveway specifications. (2011 Code)
10-5-4: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this title and the codes adopted in chapter 2 of this title
notwithstanding, the following shall govern and/or amend:
   A.   No residential roof (single- or multiple-family) shall require
additional truss or rafter bracing in the nature of hurricane stamps.
   B.   No arc fault ground circuit protection shall be required in bedrooms.
   C.   Fire suppression systems shall be required only in foyers, hallways,
garages and common areas of multiple-story multi- family housing. Such systems
shall not be required in attached two-story single-family dwellings. However,
two (2) hour fire separations shall be required between all units in such
buildings.
   D.   Upon application and review, the village board may, but need not, in
its discretion, waive, in whole or in part, prescriptive insulation
requirements of the international residential codes.
   E.   Radon mitigation shall not be required of any new construction.
   F.   Residential garage sheetrock shall be similar to that approved for use
in construction of other living areas. (Ord. 2004-01, 1-19-2004)
10-5-5: SHEDS:
   A.   For purposes of this section, a "shed" shall be defined as any
structure covering not less than six (6) square feet of the ground, comprised
of four (4) walls with a roof, not being a permanent component of a building or
accessory building lawfully located on a property, which is located on a
temporary or permanent foundation or installed directly upon the ground. A
temporary play structure, built of wood or plastic and placed upon the ground
without a permanent foundation, which is used solely for recreational purposes
and not used for storage of any items shall not be deemed a shed.
   B.   No shed shall be installed or thereafter maintained without first
obtaining a building permit from the village of Pingree Grove. The cost of such
permit shall be as established by the village's unified fee schedule from time
to time; the initial fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   C.   All sheds shall comply with applicable zoning requirements within the
district in which they are located. Additionally, the village's building
official is authorized, designated and delegated to develop regulations
regarding the structure, foundation, and minimum building requirements for
sheds within the village. Sheds shall not be permitted to be larger than two
hundred (200) square feet, and shall cover not more than thirty percent (30%)
of the total rear yard area of any residential property, and no shed shall be
installed where it shall cause the floor area ratio of any given lot to exceed
0.35 (35 percent coverage).
   D.   Relative to any shed proposed to be installed within any subdivision
that is subject to a declaration of covenants, such shed shall be required to
also comply with all applicable covenants and restrictions applicable to such
property.
   E.   Any shed installed within the village shall be maintained in good and
orderly fashion, in accordance with the village's property maintenance code.
   F.   No shed shall be installed in any drainageway, over any public or
private utility, nor in any location which, in the judgment of the building
official of the village, presents a degradation of drainage or other threat to
public safety or welfare. (Ord. 2015-O-31, 11-2-2015)
10-5-6: UNDERGROUND UTILITY INSTALLATIONS:
Where any underground utility service is to be installed in the rear or side
yard of a platted or existing lot, such utility service shall be run only
within the platted private utility easements existing on such lot and shall not
cross the buildable area of the lot except with the permission of the Chief
Building Official. To the greatest extent practicable, such utility service
shall be constrained as near to the lot lines of the lot as possible, for the
greatest distance possible. The utility service installation shall be at least
five feet (5') from the edge of the utility easement, where practical. This
regulation shall apply in particular to any utility which is required to have a
setback from above-ground obstructions or structures, such as gas or electrical
services. In the case of a lot which does not have platted utility easements,
the installation shall be as close as possible to the lot lines, in an area
approved by the Chief Building Official. Where possible, the utility meter base
shall be installed as close as possible to the power feed source, to reduce the
length of the power service to the property and accommodate the requirements of
this section. (Ord. 2020-O-15, 5-18-2020)
CHAPTER 6
DANGEROUS, UNSAFE STRUCTURES 1
SECTION:
10-6-1: Dangerous Buildings
10-6-1-1:Definition
10-6-1-2:Nuisance Declared; Dangerous Buildings Prohibited
10-6-1-3:Abatement Procedure
10-6-1-4:Removal And Rebuilding Requirements
10-6-1-5:Penalty
10-6-2: Unsafe Structures
10-6-2-1:Right Of Condemnation
10-6-2-2:Examination And Record Of Unsafe Structure
10-6-2-3:Notice To Abate
10-6-2-4:Failure To Abate
10-6-2-5:Restoration Of Unsafe Structure
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-1-2 of this code.
10-6-1: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
10-6-1-1: DEFINITION:
The term "dangerous building", as used in this section
10-6-1, is defined to mean and include:
   A.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which is dangerous
to the public health because of its construction or condition, or which may
cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health of the
occupants thereof or of neighboring structures.
   B.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because of
faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause, is
especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard.
   C.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, by reason
of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause, is
liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any
part of said structure.
   D.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because of
its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available to and
frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful occupants of
such structure. (1990 Code §13.133)
10-6-1-2: NUISANCE DECLARED; DANGEROUS BUILDINGS PROHIBITED:
Any dangerous building in the village is declared to be a nuisance. It is
unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous building in the
village, and it is unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person in custody of
any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a dangerous condition,
or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied while it is or remains
in a dangerous condition. (1990 Code §§13.133, 13.134)
10-6-1-3: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Written Statement By Village: Whenever the village engineer, village
president or local fire chief or any county or local building inspector or
other agent authorized by the village finds that any building or structure in
the village is a dangerous building, he shall file a written statement to this
effect with the village clerk. (1990 Code §13.135)
   B.   Notice Requirements: The village clerk or village building commissioner
shall thereupon cause written notice to be served upon the owner thereof, and
upon the occupants thereof, if any, by registered mail or by personal service.
Such notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in dangerous
condition and that such dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by
repairing or altering the building or demolishing it, and that the condition
must be remedied at once. (1990 Code §13.135; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Abatement By Village: If the person receiving such notice has not
complied therewith within thirty (30) days from the time when said notice is
served upon such person by personal service or by registered mail, the village
may, upon orders of the village president, proceed to remedy the condition or
demolish the dangerous building. (1990 Code §13.135)
10-6-1-4: REMOVAL AND REBUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Removal Or Rebuilding Required: Any building or structure within the
village which has or may be damaged by fire, decay or other cause to the extent
of at least fifty percent (50%) of its fair market value, shall be torn down
and removed, or rebuilt in accordance with all existing applicable building and
fire codes.
   B.   Written Statement By Village: Whenever the village engineer, village
president, local fire chief or any county or local building inspector,
sanitarian or other agent authorized by the village finds that any building or
structure has been so damaged, destroyed or decayed requiring its removal, he
shall file a written statement to this effect with the village clerk.
   C.   Notice Requirements: The village clerk or village president shall,
thereupon, cause a written notice to be served upon the owner thereof, and upon
the occupants thereof, if any, by registered mail or by personal service. Such
notice shall state that the building has been declared to have been damaged or
decayed to the extent of at least fifty percent (50%) of its fair market value
and that such building or structure must be removed or rebuilt and that the
condition be remedied at once.
   D.   Remedy Of Conditions By Village: If the person receiving such notice
has not complied therewith within thirty (30) days from the time when said
notice is served upon such person by personal service or by registered mail,
the village may, upon orders of the village building commissioner, proceed to
remedy the condition or demolish the dangerous building. (1990 Code §13.136;
amd. 2011 Code)
10-6-1-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this section
10-6-1 shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1990
Code §13.137; amd. 2011 Code)
10-6-2: UNSAFE STRUCTURES:
10-6-2-1: RIGHT OF CONDEMNATION:
All buildings or structures that are or hereafter become unsafe, unsanitary or
deficient in regard to adequate exitway facilities, or which constitute a fire
hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or to the public welfare, or
which, by reason of illegal or improper use, occupancy or maintenance, shall be
deemed unsafe buildings or structures. All unsafe structures shall be taken
down and removed or made safe and secure, as the building commissioner may deem
necessary and as provided in this section
10-6-2. A vacant building, unguarded or open at door or window, shall be deemed
a fire hazard and unsafe within the meaning of this section
10-6-2. (1990 Code §16.216; amd. 2011 Code)
10-6-2-2: EXAMINATION AND RECORD OF UNSAFE STRUCTURE:
The building commissioner shall examine every building or structure reported as
dangerous, unsafe structurally or constituting a fire hazard, and he shall
cause the report to be filed in a docket of unsafe structures and premises,
stating the use of the structure, the nature and estimated amount of damages,
if any, caused by collapse or failure. (1990 Code §16.216; amd. 2011 Code)
10-6-2-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   A.   If an unsafe condition is found in a building or structure, the
building commissioner shall serve on the owner, agent, or person in control of
the building or structure a written notice describing the building or structure
deemed unsafe and specifying the required repairs or improvements to be made to
render the building or structure safe and secure, or requiring the unsafe
building or structure or portion thereof to be demolished within a stipulated
time. Such notice shall require the person thus notified to immediately declare
to the building commissioner his acceptance or rejection of the terms of the
order. (1990 Code §16.216; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   If the person addressed with an unsafe notice cannot be found within
the village after diligent search, then such notice shall be sent by registered
or certified mail to the last known address of such person, and a copy of the
unsafe notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises, and such
procedure shall be deemed the equivalent of personal notice. (1990 Code
§16.216)
10-6-2-4: FAILURE TO ABATE:
Upon refusal or neglect of the person served with an unsafe notice to comply
with the requirements of the order to abate the unsafe conditions, the village
attorney of the jurisdiction shall be advised of all the facts, and he shall
institute the appropriate action to compel compliance. (1990 Code §16.216; amd.
2011 Code)
10-6-2-5: RESTORATION OF UNSAFE STRUCTURE:
A building or structure condemned by the building commissioner may be restored
to a safe condition, provided change of use or occupancy is not contemplated or
compelled by reason of such reconstruction; or if restoration is in excess of
fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value, exclusive of foundation, such
structure shall be made to comply in all respects with the requirements for
materials and methods of construction of structures hereafter erected. (1990
Code §16.216; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 7
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Numbering Plan; Compliance Required
10-7-2: Street Numbering Chart
10-7-3: Duty To Post Numbers; Specifications
10-7-1: NUMBERING PLAN; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All lots, buildings and structures in the village shall be numbered in
accordance with a plan as approved by the village board of trustees. (1990 Code
§15.301)
10-7-2: STREET NUMBERING CHART:
The village clerk shall keep a chart showing the proper street number of every
lot in the village, which chart shall be open for inspection by anyone
interested therein. (1990 Code §15.302)
10-7-3: DUTY TO POST NUMBERS; SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Duties Of Owners And Occupants:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of every single-
family and multiple-family dwelling structure in the village to cause every
principal building or structure to have posted thereon figures showing the
number of that building or structure.
      2.   It shall further be the duty of the owner and respective occupants
of all structures or portions thereof in the village for which an address has
been assigned, other than one-family and two-family dwelling structures, to
have posted thereon, within ten feet (10') of all exterior doors, figures
showing the number assigned to that structure or portion thereof.
   B.   Specifications:
      1.   Said figures shall be in Arabic numbers which shall be a minimum of
three inches (3") in height and of proportionate width, of contrasting color to
the mounting surface, and be affixed in such a place to be easily and
distinctly read and in plain view from the street.
      2.   All such numbers shall be placed within ten feet (10') of the front
door and shall be visible from the street abutting the front yard. In the event
the front door is not on the side of the building or structure facing the
street, the requirement of being within ten feet (10') of the front door shall
not apply.
   C.   Temporary Numbers: During construction, buildings shall have temporary
numbers affixed to or painted on the structure.
   D.   Application Of Provisions: This section shall not apply to existing
buildings and structures already numbered in a place visible from the street,
but shall apply if such numbers are replaced.
   E.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation failing to so number any
principal building or structure owned or occupied thereby, after receiving
notice to do so from the village clerk, shall be fined one dollar ($1.00) for
each day on which the failure to so number continues, and each day shall be
considered a separate violation. (1990 Code §15.303)
CHAPTER 8
DEVELOPMENT IN WETLANDS AND NEAR WATER BODIES 1
SECTION:
10-8-1: Setback Requirements
10-8-2: Limitations On Development
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  12-4D-5 of this code.
10-8-1: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Minimum setback requirements between development and the edge of identified
wetlands and bodies of water shall be in compliance with the setback
contemplated by an approved final plat or plan for a given development. Where
applicable, setbacks shall also comply with the requirements of any superior
governmental mandate, such as Kane County ordinance requirements. In the
absence of an approved plan or applicable superior governmental mandate,
minimum setbacks from identified wetlands and bodies of water shall be fifty
feet (50'), provided that the provisions of section
10-8-2 of this chapter shall permit limited development within the setback
area, and further provided that the village board may waive compliance with
this setback standard by approval of a nonconforming plan, without requirement
of any zoning variation. (Ord. 2016-O-30, 12-5-2016)
10-8-2: LIMITATIONS ON DEVELOPMENT:
Development in the setback zone established in section
10-8-1 of this chapter shall be limited to the following activities: minor
improvements like walkways and signs, maintenance of highways and utilities,
and park and recreational area development. (Ord. 2008-02, 2-19-2008)
CHAPTER 9
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
10-9-1: FEMA Maps And County Regulations Adopted
10-9-2: Interpretation
10-9-3: Amendments
10-9-4: Policy And Purpose
10-9-5: Definitions
10-9-6: Applicability
10-9-7: Responsibility For Administration
10-9-8: Severability
10-9-9: Ultimate Responsibility
10-9-10: Discharge Prohibitions
10-9-11: Suspension Of MS4 Access
10-9-12: Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges
10-9-13: Monitoring Of Discharges
10-9-14: Requirement To Prevent, Control, And Reduce Stormwater Pollutants By
The Use Of Best Management Practices (BMP)
10-9-15: Watercourse Protection
10-9-16: Notification Of Spills
10-9-17: Enforcement; Notice Of Violation
10-9-18: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
10-9-19: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
10-9-20: Cost Of Abatement Of The Violation
10-9-21: Injunctive Relief
10-9-22: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
10-9-23: Administrative Hearing
10-9-24: Remedies Not Exclusive
10-9-1: FEMA MAPS AND COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
   A.   The village acknowledges its sole responsibility for its standing in
the national flood insurance program (NFIP) including the notification of the
director, FEMA, IDNR-OWR, COE, NRCS, the soil and water conservation district,
the United States fish and wildlife service, the Illinois environmental
protection agency, and the United States environmental protection agency of any
changes or deviations which the village makes from the Kane County stormwater
ordinance (KCSO), and further resolves to adopt, pursuant to section 404(a) of
the KCSO, the most current version of any maps adopted and published by FEMA
for regulation under the NFIP. The village further resolves to automatically
adopt any amendments, additions, revisions or substitutions thereto or therefor
on an ongoing basis until such point in time as the corporate authorities of
the village shall rescind this policy of automatic adoption of updates.
   B.   As indicated in subsection A of this section, the village resolves and
declares its intent to automatically adopt by reference all amendments to the
KCSO as may be adopted by the county at any time in the future, and
specifically to automatically adopt by reference the most current version of
the FIRM and other maps adopted and published by FEMA for regulation under the
NFIP. (Res. 19-2008, 10-6-2008)
   C.   At the time of most recent amendment, the village adopts the flood
insurance rate map with an effective date of June 2, 2015. Further, the village
prospectively adopts any future revisions thereto. (Ord. 2015-O-02, 2-2-2015)
10-9-2: INTERPRETATION:
All applicable references in the county stormwater management ordinance
referenced in section
10-9-1 of this chapter to "county" shall be inferred to refer to the "village
of Pingree Grove". (Ord. 2001-04, 5-21-2001, eff. 12-15-2001)
10-9-3: AMENDMENTS:
Article 7: The following is substituted for article 7 of the county ordinance:
Article 7. Enforcement And Penalties
9-151. Inspection And Maintenance Authority. The village may, upon 30 days'
notice to the owner or occupant, enter upon any lands or waters within the
village for the purpose of inspecting and/or maintaining any storm water
facilities or causing the removal of any obstruction of an affected
watercourse.
9-152. Required Inspections. Any development constructed pursuant to a storm
water management permit may be periodically inspected by the administrator to
ensure its conformity with this ordinance and the terms and conditions of its
permit.
9-153. Offenses.
   (a)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply
with or resists the enforcement of any provision of this ordinance (ordinance
violation), or any requirement or condition in any permit issued pursuant to
this ordinance (permit violation), and, in the case of a permit violation,
fails to correct such violation, omission or neglect, or cease such
disobedience, refusal or resistance after notice and reinspection as provided
below, shall be guilty of an offense under this ordinance.
   (b)   Whenever the administrator determines that a permit violation exists,
he shall serve notice of the violation in the manner prescribed in this
ordinance to the permittee. Such notice shall state the nature and violation
and fix a date not less than 10 days after the date of the notice when the site
will be reinspected.
9-154. Offenses - Penalties; Remedies.
   (a)   Any person found guilty of an offense under this ordinance shall pay a
civil fine in an amount not less than $25.00 and not more than $750.00. Each
calendar day during which such violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (b)   In addition to any fine imposed under this section, the administrator
may revoke any storm water management permit issued to such person.
   (c)   In addition to any fine imposed or permit revocation undertaken
pursuant to this section, the administrator may issue an order requiring the
suspension of any further work on the site. Such stop-work order shall be in
writing, shall indicate the reason for its issuance, and shall specify the
action, if any, required to be taken in order to resume work. One copy of the
stop-work order shall be posted on the site in a conspicuous place and one copy
shall be served in the same manner above prescribed upon the permittee, if any,
or if none, upon the person in whose name the site was last assessed for taxes
as disclosed by the records of the county supervisor of assessments.
   (d)   In the enforcement of this ordinance, the administrator may bring any
action, legal or equitable, including an action for injunctive relief, as he
may deem necessary.
(Ord. 2001-04, 5-21-2001, eff. 12-15-2001)
Article 16: The following is substituted for article 16 of the county
ordinance: (2011 Code)
Article 16.Fee Schedule
The following fees and charges shall, in addition to other costs prescribed the
village code, be applicable to this ordinance:
   A.   
      1.   Professional fees and costs incurred by the village as provided in
title 3, chapter 5 of the village code.
      2.   Variance application fee: $1,000.00 plus other fees in this article.
      3.   Reimbursement of all out-of-pocket costs incurred by the village.
      4.   Escrow for costs in an amount determined by the administrator
pursuant to article 12.
      5.   $500.00 for review of tracts less than two acres.
      6.   $1,000.00 for review of tracts greater than 5 acres and less than 10
acres.
      7.   $1,000.00 plus $5.00 per acre for review of tracts greater than five
acres.
   B.   Fee-In-Lieu Of Site Runoff Storage.
      (a)   The administrator may require, or in the limited circumstances
prescribed in article 2 of the Pingree Grove storm water management ordinance,
an applicant may request approval of, the payment of a fee-in- lieu of site
runoff storage to fulfill all or part of the site runoff storage requirement
for a development. The fee to be paid in lieu of site runoff storage shall be
the lesser of:
         (1)   The fee for each acre-foot or part thereof of storage otherwise
required computed under a schedule adopted for such purpose by the permitting
authority; or
         (2)   The verifiable cost of otherwise providing the required storage,
including the value of the land required and all construction costs. For this
purpose, the land required shall be valued according to the use to which it
will ultimately be put if not used to provide the required storage.
      (b)   An applicant's requirement for approval of the payment of a fee-in-
lieu of site runoff storage shall be submitted to the administrator. The
administrator shall grant or deny the request within 45 days, unless the
applicant agrees to an extension.
(Ord. 2001-04, 5-21-2001, eff. 12-15-2001)
      (c)   Fees paid pursuant to this article shall be deposited by the clerk
or finance director in a separate fund created for such purpose. Provisions
shall be made so that all receipts and disbursements of such funds may be
accounted for according to the individual watershed in which the development
for which they were paid was located.
(Ord. 2001-04, 5-21-2001, eff. 12-15-2001; amd. 2011 Code)
      (d)   Fees paid pursuant to this article may be expended to plan, design,
construct or improve storm water management systems within the watershed in
which the development for which they were paid was located if such expenditure
is consistent with a watershed or interim watershed plan or floodplain study.
(Ord. 2001-04, 5-21-2001, eff. 12-15-2001)
Article 17: The following is substituted for article 17 of the county
ordinance: (2011 Code)
Article 17. Administration And Oversight
   1.   The village president shall be the administrator of this ordinance.
However, the administrator may designate or employ others within and outside
the village to assist in his administration hereof.
   2.   The oversight committee, with reference to section 1004, shall be
appointed by the president, with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees. The committee shall consist of five persons who may or may not be
residents of the village. The president shall be an ex-officio member and shall
designate the chairperson.
   3.   Each member of the committee shall be appointed for a term of two
years.
   4.   No permit required under this ordinance shall be issued without
approval by the board of trustees.
(Ord. 2001-04, 5-21-2001, eff. 12-15-2001)
10-9-4: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the Village through the regulation of non-stormwater
discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable as
required by federal and state law. This article establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process.
The objectives of these sections are:
   A.   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
   B.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system;
   C.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance,
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this article.
(Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following shall mean:
             Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, general good housekeeping
BEST         practices, pollution prevention and educational practices, maintenance
MANAGEMENT   procedures, and other management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge
PRACTICES    of pollutants directly or indirectly to stormwater, receiving waters, or
(BMPS):      stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also include treatment practices,
             operating procedures, and practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks,
             sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
CLEAN WATER  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.), and any
ACT:         subsequent amendments thereto.
             Activities subject to NPDES construction permits. NPDES Storm Water Phase II
CONSTRUCTION permits are required for construction projects resulting in land disturbance
ACTIVITY:    of one acre or more. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing
             and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
             Any material, including any substance, waste, or combination thereof, which
             because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious
HAZARDOUS    characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute to, a substantial
MATERIALS:   present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property, or the
             environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or
             otherwise managed.
ILLEGAL      Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the storm drain system.
DISCHARGE:
             An illicit connection is defined as either of the following: Any drain or
             conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illegal
             discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not limited to any
             conveyances which allow any nonstormwater discharge including sewage, process
ILLICIT      wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and any connections
CONNECTIONS: to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether
             said drain or connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or approved
             by the superintendent of public works; or, any drain or conveyance connected
             from a commercial or industrial land use to the storm drain system which has
             not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by the
             superintendent of public works.
INDUSTRIAL   Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 CFR, Section
ACTIVITY:    122.26 (b)(14).
NATIONAL
POLLUTANT
DISCHARGE    A permit issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) (or by a
ELIMINATION  state under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b)) that authorizes
SYSTEM       the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit
(NPDES)      is applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
STORMWATER
DISCHARGE
PERMIT:
NON-         Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of
STORMWATER   stormwater.
DISCHARGE:
OWNER OR
OPERATOR AS  The owner or operator of any "facility or activity" subject to regulation
DEFINED BY   under the NPDES program.
40 CFR
122.2:
             Any individual, occupant, tenant, association, organization, partnership,
PERSON:      firm, corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the
             owner or as the owner's agent.
             Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but
             are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other automotive
             fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish,
             garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances, and
POLLUTANT:   accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables;
             pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes;
             sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal
             wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
             structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
PREMISES:    Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or
             unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
             Facilities by which stormwater is collected and/or conveyed, including but not
STORM        limited to any roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs,
DRAINAGE     inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention
SYSTEM:      basins, natural and human-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and
             other drainage structures.
STORMWATER:  Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any
             form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STORMWATER   A document which describes the BMPs and activities to be implemented by a
POLLUTION    person or business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site
PREVENTION   and the actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater,
PLAN         stormwater conveyance systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent
(SWPPP):     practicable.
WASTEWATER:  Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater, discharged
             from a facility. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
 
10-9-6: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system generated
on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by the
Village. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The Village shall implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any
powers granted or duties imposed upon an authorized enforcement agency may be
delegated in writing by the Village clerk to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the Village. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-
2020)
10-9-8: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
article. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-9: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this ordinance does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-
2020)
10-9-10: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the municipal
storm drain system or watercourses any materials, including but not limited to
pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a
violation of applicable water quality standards, other than stormwater.
   B.   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
   C.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   D.   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the person
connects a line or drain conveying pollutants to the MS4, or allows such a
connection to continue.
   E.   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to
the storm drain system is prohibited as follows:
      1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this article: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wet-land flows,
swimming pools (if de-chlorinated typically less than one PPM chlorine), fire-
fighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by the Village as being necessary to
protect public health and safety.
      3.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the Village prior to the time of the test.
      4.   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the USEPA, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system. (Ord.
2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-11: SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS:
   A.   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
Village may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person
when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the Village may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or Waters of the United States, or to
minimize danger to persons.
   B.   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this ordinance may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
Village will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access.
The violator may petition the Village for a reconsideration and hearing.
   C.   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval from
the Village. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-12: INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES:
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater
discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of
compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the Village
prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-13: MONITORING OF DISCHARGES:
   A.   Applicability: This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   B.   Access To facilities:
      1.   The Village shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities
subject to regulation under this ordinance as often as may be necessary to
determine compliance with this ordinance. If a discharger has security measures
in force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into
its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow
access to representatives of the Village.
      2.   Facility operators shall allow the Village ready access to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
      3.   The Village shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the Village to conduct
monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
      4.   The Village has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      5.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the Village and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
      6.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Village access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this chapter. A
person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to discharge
stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person
denies the Village reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose
of conducting any activity authorized or required by this chapter.
      7.   If the Village has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which stormwater is discharged, and is able to demonstrate probable cause
to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a
need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program designed to verify compliance with this article or any order issued
hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the
community, then the Village may seek issuance of a search warrant from any
court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-14: REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP):
The Village will adopt requirements identifying BMPs for any activity,
operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or
contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the U.S. The
owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall provide, at
their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm drain system or
watercourses through the use of these structural and non-structural BMPs.
Further, any person responsible for a property or premises, which is, or may
be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said
person's expense, additional structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system.
Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing
the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the extent
practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this section.
These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as
necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit. (Ord. 2020-O-
23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-15: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-16: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or water of the U.S., said
person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and
cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of hazardous materials,
said person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the
occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of non-
hazardous materials, said person shall notify the Village in person or by phone
or facsimile no later than the next business day. Notifications in person or by
phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the Village
within three (3) business days of the phone notice. If the discharge of
prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment,
the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site
written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three (3) years. (Ord.
2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-17: ENFORCEMENT; NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   Whenever the Village finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the Village may order compliance
by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice may
require without limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      3.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      4.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration property;
      5.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
      6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   B.   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-18: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
violation to the Village council within seven (7) days of the notice of
violation. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Village clerk shall schedule, as
soon as practicable, a meeting in an attempt to resolve any pending issue with
the appellant. The Village may include in that meeting, in its discretion, the
public works director, the Village engineer, the Village attorney, or any other
individual or consultant which, in the opinion of the Village, would facilitate
resolution of the pending issue. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-19: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within seven days of
the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the Village,
then representatives of the Village shall enter upon the subject private
property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the
violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person,
owner, agent, or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the
government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the
purposes set forth above. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-20: COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION:
Any costs of abatement incurred by the Village may be passed on to the property
owner for payment or reimbursement to the Village. Payment must be made to the
Village within fourteen (14) days. The property owner may challenge the amount
of the abatement by appealing said cost as provided above. Any costs of
abatement ultimately determined to be due and owing to the Village and not paid
within fourteen (14) days of a final assessment may be filed as a lien on the
property as provided herein or under any applicable state or federal statute.
(Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-21: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the Village may petition
for a temporary restraining order or preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-22: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-23: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
Any person that has violated or continues to violate this chapter shall be
liable to prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be subject to
a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation per day. The fines imposed
hereunder and the violations identified within this chapter may be enforced
through the municipal administrative hearing process as provided in the Village
Code. (Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
10-9-24: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the Village to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 2020-O-23, 6-15-2020)
CHAPTER 10
INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY REGISTRATION RULES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Definitions
10-10-2: Establishment Of Registry
10-10-3: Maintenance Of Registry
10-10-4: Registration By Residents
10-10-5: Registration By Organizations
10-10-6: Determination Of Eligibility
10-10-7: Renewal And Termination
10-10-8: Amendment To Registration
10-10-9: Registries Available For Public Inspection
10-10-10: Notices To Be Sent To Interested Parties
10-10-11: Non-Interference
10-10-12: Amendment Of Registration Rules
10-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in these Registration Rules, the following terms shall have the
definitions set forth below.
ACT: The Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act, 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
CLERK: The Clerk of the Village.
INTERESTED PARTY(IES): Any individual or organization or entity registered in a
specific Registry who has registered in such Registry and whose registration
has not been terminated in accordance with these Registration Rules.
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA: A Redevelopment Project Area that (a) is intended
to qualify as a "Redevelopment Project Area" under the Act and (b) is subject
to the "Interested Parties" Registry requirements of the Act.
REGISTRATION FORM: The form appended to these Registration Rules or such
revised form as may be approved by the Village consistent with the requirements
of the Act.
REGISTRY or REGISTRIES: Each Interested Party's Registry, and all such
Registries collectively, established by the Village pursuant to Section 11-
74.4-4.2 of the Act for any and all Redevelopment Project Areas in the Village.
VILLAGE: The Village of Pingree Grove, Kane County, Illinois.
(Ord. 2025-O-09, 5-19-2025)
10-10-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRY:
   The Village shall establish a separate Interested Parties' Registry for the
Redevelopment Project Area, whether existing as of the date of the adoption of
these Rules or hereafter established. The Village shall establish a new
Registry whenever it has identified an area for study and possible designation
as a Redevelopment Project Area. In any event the process of establishing the
new Registry must be completed prior to the deadline for sending any of the
notices required by Section 10-10-10 of is chapter or any other notices
required by the Act with respect to the proposed Redevelopment Project Area.
(Ord. 2025-O-09, 5-19-2025)
10-10-3: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
   The Registry shall be maintained by the Clerk or his or her designee. In the
event the Village determines that an individual other than the Clerk should
maintain the Registry, the Village may transfer the responsibility for
maintaining the Registry to such other Department provided that the Village (i)
gives prior written notice to all Interested Parties not less than thirty (30)
days prior to such transfer and (ii) published notice of such transfer in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Village.
(Ord. 2025-O-09, 5-19-2025)
10-10-4: REGISTRATION BY RESIDENTS:
   An individual seeking to register as an Interested Person with respect to a
Redevelopment Project Area must complete and submit a Registration Form to the
Clerk.
(Ord. 2025-O-09, 5-19-2025)
10-10-5: REGISTRATION BY ORGANIZATIONS:
   An organization seeking to register as an Interested Person with respect to
a Redevelopment Project Area must complete and submit a Registration Form to
the Clerk.
(Ord. 2025-O-09, 5-19-2025)
10-10-6: DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY:
   All individuals and organizations whose Registration Form and supporting
documentation comply with these Registration Rules shall be registered in the
Registry within ten (10) business days after the Clerk's receipt of all such
documents. The Clerk shall provide written notice to the Interested Party
confirming such registration. Upon registration, Interested Parties shall be
entitled to receive all notices and documents required to be delivered under
these Rules, or as otherwise required under the Act, with respect to the
applicable Redevelopment Project Area. If the Clerk determines that a
Interested Party's Registration Form and/or supporting documentation is
incomplete or does not comply with these Registration Rules, the Clerk shall
give written notice to the Interested Party specifying the defect(s), and the
Interested Party shall be entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new
Registration Form and supporting documentation. Any such resubmission should be
filed within thirty (30) days of the date the Clerk has issued written notice
to the Interested Party that the Registration form is incomplete or does not
comply with Registration Rules.
(Ord. 2025-O-09, 5-19-2025)
10-10-7: RENEWAL AND TERMINATION:
   An Interested Party's registration shall remain effective for a period of
three (3) years. At any time after such three (3) year period, the Clerk may
provide written notice by regular mail to the Interested Party stating that
such registration shall terminate unless the Interested Party renews such
registration with thirty (30) days after the Clerk's mailing of written notice.
To renew such registration, the Interested Party shall, within such thirty (30)
day period, complete and submit the same Registration Form then required of
initial registrant's operations in the Village. The registration of all
individuals and organizations whose Registration Form is submitted in a timely
manner and complies with these Regulation Rules shall be renewed for an
additional consecutive three (3) year period. If the Clerk determines that a
registrant's renewal Registration Form is incomplete or does not comply with
these Registration Rules, the Clerk shall give written notice to the registrant
specifying the defect(s) at the address specified in the renewal Registration
Form submitted by such registrant. The registrant shall be entitled to correct
any defects and resubmit a new Registration Form within thirty (30) days after
receipt of the Clerk's notice. If all defects are not corrected within thirty
(30) days after the Interested Party's receipt of the Clerk's notice, the
Interested Party's registration shall be terminated. Any Interested Party whose
registration is terminated shall be entitled to register again as if a first-
time registrant.
(Ord. 2025-O-09, 5-19-2025)
10-10-8: AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION:
   Interested Party may amend its registration by giving written notice to the
Clerk by certified mail of any of the following: (i) change in address for
notice purposes; (ii) in the case of organizations, a change in the name of the
contact person; and (iii) a termination of registration. Upon receipt of such
notice, the Clerk shall revise the applicable Registry accordingly.
(Ord. 2025-O-09, 5-19-2025)
10-10-9: REGISTRIES AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION:
   Each Registry shall be available for public inspection during normal
business hours. The Registry shall include the name, address and telephone
number of each Interested Party and, for organizations, the name and phone
number of a designated contact person.
(Ord. 2025-O-09, 5-19-2025)
10-10-10: NOTICES TO BE SENT TO INTERESTED PARTIES:
   Interested Parties shall be sent the following notices and any other notices
required under the Act with respect to the applicable Redevelopment Project
Area:
   A.   Pursuant to sub-section 11-74.4-5(a) of the Act, notice of the
availability of a proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including
how to obtain this information; such notice shall be sent by mail within a
reasonable period of time after the adoption of the ordinance or resolution
fixing the public hearing for the proposed redevelopment plan;
   B.   Pursuant to sub-section 11-74.4-5(a) of the Act, notice of changes to
proposed redevelopment plans that do not (1) add additional parcels of property
to the proposed Redevelopment Project Area, (2) substantially affect the
general land uses proposed in the redevelopment plan, (3) substantially change
the nature of or extend the life of the redevelopment project, or (4) increase
the number of inhabited residential units to be displaced from the
Redevelopment Project Area, as measured from the time of creation of the
Redevelopment Project Area, to a total of more than ten (10); such notice shall
be sent by mail not later than ten (10) days following the Village's adoption
by ordinance of such changes.
   C.   Pursuant to Section 11-74.4-5(c) of the Act, notice of amendments to
previously approved redevelopment plans that do not: (1) add additional parcels
of property to the redevelopment project area, (2) substantially affect the
general land uses in the redevelopment plan, (3) substantially change the
nature of the redevelopment project, (4) increase the total estimated
redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan by more than five
percent (5%) after adjustment for inflation from the date the plan was adopted,
(5) add additional redevelopment project costs to the itemized list of
redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan, or (6) increase
the number of inhabited residential units to be displaced from the
redevelopment project area, as measured from the time of creation of the
redevelopment project, to a total of more than ten (10); such notice will be
sent by mail not later than ten (10) days following the Village's adoption by
ordinance of such amendment;
   D.   Pursuant to sub-section 11-74.4-5(d)(9) of the Act, for redevelopment
plans or projects that would result in the displacement of residents from ten
(10) or more inhabited residential units or that contain seventy five (75) or
more inhabited residential units, notice of the availability of the annual
report described by subsection 74.4-5(d) of the Act, including how to obtain
the annual report; such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period
of time after completion of the certified audit report.
   E.   Pursuant to sub-section 11-74.4-6(e) of the Act, notice of the
preliminary public meeting required under the Act for a proposed Redevelopment
Project Area that will result in the displacement of residents from ten (10) or
more inhabited residential units or which will contain seventy five (75) or
more inhabited residential units; such notice shall be sent by certified mail
not less than fifteen (15) days before the date of such preliminary public
meeting.
(Ord. 2025-O-09, 5-19-2025)
10-10-11: NON-INTERFERENCE:
   These Registration Rules shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise
interfere with the ability of eligible organizations and individuals to
register for receipt of information to which they are entitled under the Act.
(Ord. 2025-O-09, 5-19-2025)
10-10-12: AMENDMENT OF REGISTRATION RULES:
   These Registration Rules may be amended by the Village subject to and
consistent with the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 2025-O-09, 5-19-2025)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose And Intent
11-1-3: Compliance Required
11-1-4: Interpretation And Application Of Provisions
11-1-5: Separability
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited, and referred as the PINGREE GROVE ZONING
ORDINANCE. (1990 Code §21.1.010)
11-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   This title is adopted for the purpose of:
      1.   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience,
and general welfare.
      2.   Securing adequate light, pure air, and safety from fire and other
dangers.
      3.   Conserving the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
village.
   B.   To these ends, this title is designed to set up and accomplish certain
standards and objectives by:
      1.   Dividing the entire village into districts and restricting and
regulating therein the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and
use of buildings, structures, and land, whether for residence, business,
manufacturing, or other specified uses.
      2.   Avoiding or lessening congestion in the public streets.
      3.   Preventing the overcrowding of land through regulating and limiting
the height and bulk of buildings thereafter erected as related to land area.
      4.   Establishing, regulating, and limiting the building or setback lines
on or along streets, alleys, or property lines.
      5.   Regulating and limiting the intensity of the use of lot areas, and
regulating and determining the area of open spaces within and surrounding such
buildings.
      6.   Establishing standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform.
      7.   Prohibiting uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of the residence, business, or manufacturing districts.
      8.   Preventing additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder.
      9.   Providing for the gradual elimination of those uses, buildings, and
structures which are incompatible with the character of the districts in which
they are made or located, including, without being limited thereto:
         a.   Elimination of such uses of unimproved lands or lot areas when
existing rights of the persons in possession thereof are terminated or when the
uses to which they are devoted are discontinued;
         b.   Elimination of uses to which such buildings and structures are
devoted if they are adaptable for permitted uses; and (1990 Code §21.1.020)
         c.   Elimination of such buildings and structures when they are
destroyed or damaged in major part, or when they have reached the age fixed by
the village president and board of trustees as the normal useful life of such
buildings or structures. (1990 Code §21.1.020; amd. 2011 Code)
      10.   Providing for the acquisition by purchase, condemnation, or
otherwise, of any buildings or structures which do not conform to the standards
fixed by the village.
      11.   Defining and limiting the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided hereinafter.
      12.   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
title or of any amendment hereto. (1990 Code §21.1.020)
11-1-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All uses of buildings, structures, and land established hereafter; all
buildings, structures and improvements to land constructed or erected
hereafter; and all existing buildings and structures raised, moved,
reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or altered hereafter shall conform to all
regulations of this title and all amendments hereto pertaining to the zoning
district in which such buildings, structures, and land are located. However,
where a building permit for a building or structure has been issued in
accordance with law prior to the effective date hereof, or any amendment
hereto, and where construction has begun within six (6) months of such
effective date and diligently prosecuted to completion, said building or
structure may be completed in accordance with said permit; and further, upon
completion, may be occupied for the use originally designated, subject to the
provisions on nonconforming uses, chapter 11 of this title. (1990 Code
§21.1.070)
11-1-4: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, morals, and welfare.
   B.   More Restrictive Provisions Apply:
      1.   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this title upon
the: a) use of land or buildings; b) the bulk of buildings; c) floor area
requirements; d) lot area requirements; and e) yard requirements, are either
more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any
other provision of this title or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule,
or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which
impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
      2.   This title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or
other private agreement; provided, that where the regulations of this title are
more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such
easements, covenants, or other private agreements, the requirements of this
title shall govern.
   C.   Unlawful Existing Buildings, Structures And Uses: No building,
structure, or use not lawfully existing at the effective date hereof shall
become or be made lawful solely by reason of the adoption of this title, and to
the extent that and in any manner that said unlawful building, structure, or
use is in conflict with the requirements of this title, said building,
structure, or use remains unlawful hereunder. (1990 Code §21.1.030)
11-1-5: SEPARABILITY:
It is declared to be the intention of the board of trustees that the several
provisions of this title are separable in accordance with the following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any provision of this
title not specifically included in said judgment.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this title to a particular property, building,
or structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said provision
to any other property, building, or structure not specifically included in said
judgment. (1990 Code §21.1.040)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of this title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
the present.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   E.   Whenever a word or term defined in this chapter appears in the rest of
this title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
hereof, and any word appearing in parentheses, between a word and its
definition herein, shall be construed in the same sense as that word; and words
herein not defined shall be interpreted in accordance with applicable
definitions contained in Webster's dictionary.
   F.   All measured distances, expressed in feet, shall be to the nearest
integral foot; if a fraction is one-half foot (1/2') or more, the integral foot
next above shall be taken. (1990 Code §21.2.005)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The words and terms set out in this section, wherever they occur in this title,
shall be construed as herein defined:
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building which:
   A.   Is subordinate to and incidental to a principal building or use; and
   B.   Is subordinate in area, extent and purpose to the principal building or
principal use; and
   C.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants of
the principal building or principal use; and
   D.   Is located on the same lot as the principal building or principal use,
except for such accessory parking facilities as are specifically authorized to
be located elsewhere.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure which:
   A.   Is subordinate to and incidental to a principal building or use; and
   B.   Is subordinate in area, extent and purpose to the principal building or
principal use; and
   C.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants of
the principal building or principal use; and
   D.   Is located on the same lot as the principal building or principal use,
except for such accessory parking facilities as are specifically authorized to
be located elsewhere.
ACCESSORY USE: A use which:
   A.   Is subordinate to and incidental to a principal use; and
   B.   Is subordinate in area, extent and purpose to the principal use; and
   C.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of the principal
use; and
   D.   Is located on the same lot as the principal use, except for such
accessory parking facilities as are specifically authorized to be located
elsewhere.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as
it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as it may be amended
from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as it may be amended from
time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as it may be
amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
AGRICULTURE: Land, buildings and structures used for the raising of soil crops
or the raising of animals. The term shall also include truck farming, poultry
farming, dairy farming, fish hatcheries, beekeeping, all production livestock
ventures, tree nurseries, sod nurseries, the raising of fruit and berries and
selling the products thereof, as well as the storing by the federal government
or any of its duly designated agencies of surplus grain. The term shall not
include buildings used primarily for residences.
AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented for use in or
designed for navigation of or flight in the air.
AIRPORT (LANDING STRIP, HELIPORT, OR HELISTOP): Any premises which are used or
intended for use for the landing and taking off of aircraft; and any
appurtenant areas which are used or intended for use for airport buildings or
other airport structures or rights of way, together with all airport buildings
and structures located thereon.
ALLEY: A right of way, with a width not exceeding twenty four feet (24'), which
affords a secondary means of access to abutting property.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care,
observation or treatment of domestic animals.
AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY: Any building or portion thereof where automobiles are
washed, using a conveyor, blower, steam cleaning equipment, or other mechanical
device of production line nature.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION (GAS STATION): Any building, or portion thereof, or
premises used for dispensing or offering for sale at retail any automotive
fuels or oils having pumps and storage tanks thereon, or where battery, tire
and other similar minor services are rendered, but only if rendered wholly
within lot lines. Automobile service stations do not include open sales lots or
public garages, as defined in this section.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any area of land where three (3) or more motor
vehicles not in running condition, or the parts thereof, are stored in the open
and are not being restored to operation, or any land, building, or structure
used for the wrecking or storing of such automobiles or parts thereof.
AWNING: A rooflike cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the wall of
a building and which may overhang a street right of way.
BASEMENT: A portion of a building located partly underground, but having less
than half its clear floor to ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
BED AND BREAKFAST GUEST HOME: A residential building containing an aggregate of
not more than five (5) lodging rooms offered for rent to transient guests for a
continuous period of thirty (30) days or less, and containing the owner's
principal residence. Food may be served only to overnight guests, exclusively,
between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or in lieu of street or streets, by
public parks, cemeteries, and railroad rights of way, the shorelines of lakes
or streams, or a corporate line of the village.
BUILDING: Anything constructed for shelter or enclosure of persons, or movable
property of any kind, and which is attached to a foundation.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space. A building connected
to another building only by an unenclosed structure shall be deemed to be a
separate detached building.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the established grade
level to the highest point of the underside of the ceiling beams, in the case
of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean level of
the underside of rafters between eaves and the ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel
roof. Chimneys, spires, towers, elevator penthouses, tanks, and similar
projections, other than signs, shall not be included in calculating the height.
BUILDING LINE: A line or lines on the horizontal surface of a lot, parallel or
nearly parallel to the front, side and rear lot lines and located at a distance
prescribed by the yard regulation of this title beyond which no portion of a
principal building may extend except as provided by this title.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A nonaccessory building in which is conducted the
principal use of the lot on which it is located.
BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL: A building containing one or more dwelling units.
"Residential building" shall not be deemed to include hotels, motels, rooming
houses, nursing homes, dormitories, and trailers.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY: A structure constructed for shelter or enclosure of
persons or movable property of any kind, and which is not attached to a
foundation.
BULK: A composite characteristic of a given building as located upon a given
lot, not definable as a single quantity, but involving all of the following
characteristics:
   A.   Size and height of building;
   B.   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets, or other buildings;
   C.   Gross floor area of the building in relation to lot area (floor area
ratio);
   D.   All open spaces allocated to the building; and
   E.   The amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit.
BUSINESS: An occupation, employment or enterprise which occupies time,
attention, labor, and materials, or wherein merchandise is exhibited or sold,
or where services are offered.
CANNABIS: Any species of the family Cannabaceae including but not limited to
Cannabis sativa, Cannabis indica, and Cannabis ruderalis used for recreational,
medicinal, or industrial purposes. This term shall refer to marijuana, hashish,
and other substances that are identified as including any parts of the plant,
whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of
the plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol
(THC) and all other naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced
directly or indirectly by extraction or independently by chemical synthesis or
by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis; however, "cannabis" does
not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil
or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the
resin extracted from it), fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the
plant that is incapable of germination. "Cannabis" does not include industrial
hemp as defined and authorized under the Illinois Industrial Hemp Act.
"Cannabis" also means concentrate and cannabis-infused products.
Cannabidiol (CBD): A chemical derived from cannabis that is used primarily for
medical purposes. CBD has less pronounced psychoactive effects than THC.
Hemp: Otherwise known as "industrial hemp," this material is made from Cannabis
with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) concentration of not more than 0.3
percent on a dry weight basis that has been cultivated under a license issued
under the Illinois Industrial Hemp Act or is otherwise lawfully present in the
State of Illinois, and includes any intermediate or finished product made or
derived from industrial hemp. Hemp shall not be subject to this Article.
Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): A chemical derived from cannabis that is used
primarily for recreational purposes. THC is the principal psychoactive chemical
in cannabis.
CELLAR: The portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor to ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide
members paying dues, which owns, hires, or leases a building or portion
thereof, the use of such premises being restricted to members and their guests.
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE ARCADE: Any establishment, room or place where
more than four (4) coin operated amusement devices, as defined in section
4-3D-1 of this code, are available to the public.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of a building or
structure, measured at the center of such front. Where no curb level has been
established, curb level shall be deemed to be the established level of the
centerline of the street surface in front of a building or structure, measured
at the centerline of such front.
DAYCARE HOME: The accessory use of a dwelling unit licensed by the state as a
daycare home and/or nightcare home in accordance with the Illinois department
of children and family services licensing standards for daycare and nightcare
homes dated September 10, 1976, as revised, effective February 20, 1977, or the
accessory use of a dwelling unit for the care of no more than three (3)
children other than the resident family's natural, adopted or foster children.
DECIBEL: A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound
level meters which are employed to measure the intensity of sound are
calibrated in decibels.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT (DRIVE-UP OR DRIVE-THROUGH): A business establishment so
developed and used that its retail or service character is dependent, in whole
or in part, on providing a driveway approach for motor vehicles to serve
patrons while in the motor vehicle, rather than within a building or structure.
DWELLING, ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY: A residential building containing three (3)
or more dwelling units, each of which has a separate entrance to the exterior
and its own ground floor living space.
DWELLING, DETACHED SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached residential building containing
one dwelling unit.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A residential building containing three (3) or more
dwelling units, each of which may connect to a common corridor or entranceway.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A residential building containing two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: A single unit in a residential building which includes
independent living facilities for one family, and which includes provisions for
sleeping, cooking and sanitation.
EASEMENT: Land which has been designated by lawful agreement between the owner
or owners of the land and a person or persons for a specified use only by such
person or persons.
EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room, together
with bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets, and/or dining alcove directly off the
principal room, provided such dining alcove does not exceed one hundred twenty
five (125) square feet in area.
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION CENTER: A terminal at which electric energy is received
from the transmission system and is delivered to the distribution system only.
ELECTRIC SUBSTATION: A terminal at which electric energy is received from the
transmission system and is delivered to other elements of the transmission
system and, generally, to the local distribution system.
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE: Any product containing or delivering nicotine or any
other substance intended for human consumption that can be used by a person in
any manner for the purpose of inhaling vapor or aerosol from the product. It
includes any such product, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold
as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, or e-hookah, or vape pen or under any other
product name or descriptor.
FAMILY: One or more persons each related to the other by blood, marriage, or
adoption, or a group of not more than three (3) persons not all so related,
together with his or their domestic servant, maintaining a common household in
a dwelling unit. A family may include not more than two (2) roomers, boarders,
or permanent guests, whether or not gratuitous.
FENCE: A structure used as a boundary, a screen, a means of containing persons
or animals, a means of protection or for landscaping aesthetics and which is
constructed of wood or metal parts and wood or metal fencing materials or of
other similar materials.
FENCE, OPEN: A fence, including entrance and exit gates, designed and
constructed so that the surface area of any segment of such fence contains at
least fifty percent (50%) open spaces, as compared to solid materials.
FENCE, SOLID: A fence, including solid entrance and exit gates, which
effectively conceals from viewers in or on adjoining properties and streets,
materials stored and operations conducted behind it.
FLOOR AREA:
   A.   For the purposes of determining the floor area ratio, conversions of
existing structures, and maximum size of business establishments, floor area
means the sum of the horizontal area of floor space contained in all floors
including a basement floor but not including a cellar floor of a building or
buildings on a lot, measured in square feet from the exterior faces of the
exterior walls of each building, or from the centerline of party walls
separating two (2) buildings. Such floor area shall also include:
      1.   Space devoted to elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor;
      2.   Floor space used for mechanical equipment when the structural
headroom exceeds seven feet ten inches (7'10") in height, except equipment such
as bulkheads, water tanks, and cooling towers when located on the roof, whether
or not such equipment is in the open or enclosed;
      3.   Floor space in that part of a half story where headroom is seven
feet ten inches (7'10") or more in height;
      4.   Floor space devoted to interior balconies, mezzanines, and enclosed
porches;
      5.   Floor space devoted to accessory uses in the principal building and
in the accessory building or buildings; and
      6.   Floor space devoted to enclosed off street parking and off street
loading.
   B.   For the purpose of determining off street parking and off street
loading requirements, "floor area" means the sum of the gross horizontal areas
of the several floors of the building or portion thereof devoted to use
requiring off street parking and loading. This area shall include accessory
storage areas located within selling or working space such as counters, racks,
or closets, and any basement floor area devoted to retailing activities, to the
production or processing of goods, or to business or professional offices.
However, "floor area", for the purposes of determining off street parking
spaces, shall not include floor area devoted primarily to storage purposes
(except as otherwise noted herein), nor floor area such as ramps, aisles, and
maneuvering space, nor floor area devoted to off street parking or loading
activities, nor cellar floor area other than area devoted to merchandising
activities, to the production of goods, or to business or professional offices.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The numerical value obtained through dividing the gross floor
area of a building or buildings by the net lot area on which such building or
buildings are located.
FREQUENCY: The number of oscillations per second in a sound wave, measuring the
pitch of the resulting sound.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the principal
building, including a carport, which is intended for and used for storing the
private passenger vehicles of the family or families resident upon the
premises, and in which no business, service, or industry connected directly or
indirectly with the automotive vehicles is carried on; provided, that not more
than one-half (1/2) of the space may be rented for the private passenger
vehicles of persons not resident on the premises; and except, that all the
space in a garage of one car or two (2) car capacity may be so rented.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any building where automotive vehicles are painted, repaired,
rebuilt, reconstructed, or stored for compensation.
GARAGE, STORAGE: A building or premises used for housing only motor vehicles
pursuant to previous arrangements and not by transients; and where no equipment
or parts are sold, and vehicles are not rebuilt, serviced, repaired, hired, or
sold; except, that fuel, grease, or oil may be dispensed within the building to
vehicles stored therein.
GRADE LEVEL: The average finished ground level measured at a perimeter line
which is six feet (6') from the exterior surface of the foundation of a
building or from the exterior surface of a structure.
GREENHOUSE: A building or structure used for growing plants and/or displaying
and selling horticultural and related products, not including the conduct of a
landscape contracting business on the premises.
GROUND FLOOR AREA: The lot area covered by a building, measured from the
exterior faces of exterior walls, but excluding open porches or terraces,
garages, or carports.
HOME OCCUPATION:
   A.   A gainful occupation or profession conducted by a member of a family
residing on the premises, and where the business or profession is conducted
within the dwelling.
   B.   The term also means an accessory use of a dwelling unit by a resident
thereof for gainful employment involving the manufacture, provision, or sale of
goods and/or services.
HOSPITAL: An institution that provides, through an organized medical staff,
permanent facilities that include beds, medical services, and continuous
nursing service diagnoses and treatment, both surgical and nonsurgical, for
patients who have any variety of medical and/or dental conditions.
HOTEL: A building containing lodging rooms, a general kitchen and dining room,
a common entrance lobby, halls, and stairway; and where each lodging room does
not have a doorway opening directly to the outdoors except for emergencies; and
where more than fifty percent (50%) of the lodging rooms are for rent, with or
without meals, to transient guests for a continuous period of less than thirty
(30) days.
HOTEL, APARTMENT: A hotel in which at least fifty percent (50%) of the hotel
accommodations are for occupancy by permanent guests (30 days or more).
JUNKYARD: An open area where waste, used, or secondhand materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled, including,
but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires, and
bottles. A junkyard includes an auto wrecking yard, but does not include uses
carried on entirely within enclosed buildings.
KENNEL OPERATOR: Any person who operates an establishment, other than a pound
or animal shelter, where dogs and/or cats are maintained for boarding, training
or similar purposes for a fee or compensation; or who sells, exchanges, or
offers for adoption, with or without charge, dogs and/or cats which he has
produced or raised. A person who owns or harbors three (3) or fewer animals
shall not be considered a "kennel operator".
LODGING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms, each room shall be counted as one lodging room.
LOT: A parcel of land which is designated by its owner at the time of
application for a building permit as a tract, all of which is to be developed
and used as one parcel under single ownership. A lot may consist of: a) a
single lot of record; or b) a combination of contiguous complete lots of
record. A lot shall have frontage on a public street or on an approved private
street.
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes through
front, side, and rear lot lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two (2) or more
intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which does not exceed one hundred thirty
five degrees (135°).
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line of a lot measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot; except, that where any portion
of the lot extends into an abutting street or alley, the lot line shall be
deemed to be the established or existing street or alley right of way line.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The lot line which abuts an existing or dedicated street. In
the case of a corner lot, the front lot line shall be as established on the
plat of subdivision; if a front lot line was not established on the plat of
subdivision, the front lot line shall be established by the owner at the time
of application for a building permit.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or is
approximately, parallel to the front lot line. If the rear lot line is less
than ten feet (10') in length, or if the line forms a point at the rear, the
rear lot line shall be deemed to be a line ten feet (10') in length within the
lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a recorded subdivision, or a lot or
parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so
recorded.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A lot where the street side lot line is substantially a
continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its rear.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2)
substantially parallel streets and which is not a corner lot. On a through lot,
both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines, but in the case of two (2)
or more contiguous through lots, there shall be a common front lot line.
LOT WIDTH: The distance between the side lot lines measured by a straight line
drawn between the intersections of the side lot lines with the front building
line.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days.
The term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale. The term
does not include sales lots on which automobiles or unoccupied manufactured
homes, new or used, are parked for the purpose of inspection or sale.
MARQUEE (CANOPY): A rooflike structure of permanent nature which projects from
the wall of a building and may overhang the public way.
MINIWAREHOUSE (SELF-STORAGE): A structure or group of structures used for the
purpose of renting or leasing individual storage spaces to different tenants
who are to have access to such spaces for the purpose of storage and removing
property. A miniwarehouse may include one dwelling unit on the premises for use
only by a watchman, caretaker or manager.
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle or similar portable structure used or so constructed
as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways
and designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or
more persons.
MOBILE HOME PARK OR PARK: An area of land upon which two (2) or more occupied
mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and
shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or
intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile home park.
MOTEL: A building containing lodging rooms having adjoining individual
bathrooms, and where each lodging room has a doorway opening directly to the
outdoors, and more than fifty percent (50%) of the lodging rooms are for rent
to transient tourists for a continuous period of less than thirty (30) days.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or premises in which freight is received or
dispatched by motor vehicle.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled wheeled vehicle designed primarily for
transportation of persons or goods along public streets.
NAMEPLATE: A sign indicating the name and address of a building and/or the name
of an occupant thereof.
NET LOT AREA: The area inside of lot lines exclusive of established or existing
street and alley rights of way.
NOXIOUS MATTER: Material which is capable of causing injury to living organisms
by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects upon the
physical or economic well being of individuals.
NURSING HOME: An establishment for the care of the aged or infirm. Such a home
does not contain equipment for medical and surgical care or for the treatment
of disease or injury, nor does a nursing home provide care in maternity or
mental illness.
OBSTRUCTION: Any building or structure, or parts thereof, which is located so
as to come in the way of any open area required by this title.
OCTAVE BAND: A term denoting all the frequencies between any given frequency
and double that frequency.
OCTAVE BAND FILTER: An electrical frequency analyzer designed according to
standards formulated by the American Standards Association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals. (American Standard For Sound-Level Meters, ASA No. 224.3-1944.)
ODOR THRESHOLD VALUE: The minimum concentration of odorous material in air
which can be detected as determined by Manufacturing Chemists Association or
other qualified laboratory.
OPEN SALES LOT: Any land used or occupied for the conduct of any nonaccessory
business, sales, service, storage, or display of goods conducted outside
completely enclosed buildings.
OUTDOOR SALES AREA: That part of a lot used for outdoor sales, storage, or
display of goods in conjunction with or accessory to the principal use.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Material, other than steam or water vapor, which is
suspended or discharged into the atmosphere in finely divided form as a liquid
or solid at atmospheric pressure and temperature.
PARTY WALL: A wall starting from the foundation and extending continuously
through all stories to or above the roof which separates one building from
another, and is in joint use by each building.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: Criteria to control noise, odor, smoke, toxic or noxious
matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare or heat generated by or
inherent in use of land or buildings.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A special use of a parcel of land as a unified
development planned as an integral unit consisting of one or more structures
and uses.
REFUSE: All waste products resulting from human habitation, except sewage.
RESEARCH LABORATORY: A building or group of buildings in which are located
facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing, or experimentation,
but not primarily facilities for the manufacture or sale of products.
RESIDENCE, PRINCIPAL: The dwelling unit used by the resident(s) thereof as his
or her primary residence for sleeping hours and the dwelling unit used by the
resident(s) thereof for voter registration and personal income tax returns and
as his or her address for one or more of the following: driver's license,
personal credit cards, post office residence, automobile registration, and
other purposes.
RINGELMANN CHART: A chart which is described in the U.S. bureau of mines
information circular 6888, and on which are illustrated graduated shades of
gray for use in estimating the light obscuring capacity of smoke.
RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number of the area on the Ringelmann chart that
coincides most nearly with the light obscuring capacity of smoke.
ROOMING HOUSE OR BOARDING HOUSE: A building or portion thereof containing
lodging rooms which accommodate three (3) or more persons who are not members
of the keeper's family, and where lodging rooms or meals, or both, are provided
for compensation.
SCREENING: A structure erected or vegetation planted for concealing from
viewers the area behind it.
SETBACK: A required minimum distance from a lot line to a building, structure,
or other improvement on a lot.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display, or illustration which is
affixed to or painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a building or
other outdoor surface or piece of land, and which directs attention to an
object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization, or
business. Each display surface of a sign shall be considered to be a separate
sign. However, as used in this title, the term "sign" does not include any
display of official court or public office notices, nor the flag, emblem or
insignia of a nation, political unit, school, or religious group. A sign shall
not include a sign located completely within an enclosed building unless the
content shall be visible from a street. Identification and addresses of
establishments on awnings and marquees shall not be considered to be signs.
SIGN, ADVERTISING (BILLBOARD OR POSTER PANEL): A sign which directs attention
to a business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered
at any location other than upon the premises where such a sign is located or to
which it is affixed.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold, or
offered, upon the premises where such sign is located or to which it is
affixed.
SIGN, FLASHING: Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when such
sign is in use. For the purpose of this title, any moving illuminated sign
shall be considered a flashing sign.
SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF: The entire area covered by the sign or comprised
within a single continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of its
display area, and in no case passing through or between any adjacent elements
thereof, but such perimeter shall not include any structural elements lying
outside the display area of the sign.
SMOKE SHOP/VAPE SHOP: An establishment engaged primarily (meaning in excess of
fifty percent (50%) of total sales) in the retail sale and display of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, electronic cigarettes, vape or
vaping products including, without limitation, vapes, vaporizers, vape pens,
vapor cigarettes and alternative vapor transmission modalities and
paraphernalia associated with any other foregoing. The term "Smoke Shop/Vape
Shop" shall not include an adult use cannabis dispensing organization, adult
use cannabis infuser organization,adult use cannabis processing organization or
adult use cannabis transporting organization.
SMOKE UNITS, NUMBER OF: The number obtained by multiplying the smoke density in
Ringelmann numbers by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this
calculation, Ringelmann density reading is made at least once every minute
during the period of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the time
in minutes during which it is observed; the various products are then added
together to give the total number of smoke units observed during the total
period under observation. Steam or water vapor is not considered smoke.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument standardized by the American Standards
Association for measurement of the intensity of sound.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above; or if there is no floor above, the space
between the floor and the ceiling next above. A basement shall be counted as a
story, and a cellar shall not be counted as a story.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall not more than three feet (3') above the top floor level,
and in which space, not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area is
completed for principal or accessory use.
STREET (AVENUE, PLACE, ROAD, TERRACE OR PARKWAY): A right of way of required
width which affords a primary means of access to abutting property.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change, other than incidental repairs, in the
supporting members of a building or structure such as bearing walls or
partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or any substantial change in the roof
or exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything erected, the use of which requires more or less permanent
location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground. An advertising device, if detached or projecting, shall be
construed to be a separate structure.
TEAROOM: A restaurant which is located in conjunction with and on the same
premises as a retail use.
THEATER (INDOOR ONLY): A building or rooms specifically designed for the
purpose of showing motion pictures, lectures and seminars, live performances
such as theatrical plays and performances, concerts, church services and school
graduations.
TOXIC MATERIAL: A substance (liquid, solid, or gaseous) which, by reason of an
inherent deleterious property, tends to destroy life or impair health.
TRAILER: Any vehicle, house car, camp car, or any portable or mobile vehicle on
wheels, skids, rollers or blocks, either self-propelled or propelled by any
other means, which is used for living, sleeping, or commercial purposes.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged, or intended or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USE, NONCONFORMING: Any use of a building or premises which, on the effective
date hereof, does not, even though lawfully established, comply with all of the
applicable use regulations of the zoning district in which such building or
premises is located.
USE, PERMITTED: Any building, structure, or use which complies with the
applicable regulations governing permitted uses of the zoning district in which
such building, structure or use is located.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
USE, SPECIAL: Any building, structure or use which complies with the applicable
regulations governing special uses of the zoning district in which such
building, structure, or use is located.
YARD: A required open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from
its lowest level to the sky, except for obstructions specifically permitted in
this title. A yard extends along a lot line for a depth as specified for the
district in which such lot is located.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending the full width of the lot between side lot lines
for the required minimum depth measured perpendicular to the front lot line.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: A side yard which does not abut a street right of way.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending between the side lot lines for the required
minimum depth measured perpendicular to the rear lot line.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line between the front and rear
yard, for the required minimum depth measured perpendicular to the side lot
line.
ZONING CERTIFICATE: A written statement certified by the building commissioner
indicating that an intended structure, building or alteration and use comply
with all the provisions of this title.
(1990 Code §§ 21.2.005 – 21.2.560, 21.12.020; amd. Ord. 1991-5, 12-17-1991;
2011 Code; Ord. 2019-O-51, 12-2-2019; Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-3-1: Organization
11-3-2: Zoning Certificate
11-3-3: Occupancy Permit
11-3-4: Special Uses
11-3-5: Variations
11-3-6: Appeals
11-3-7: Amendments
11-3-8: Annexations
11-3-9: Fees
11-3-10: Enforcement Official
11-3-11: Penalty
11-3-1: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   The administration of this title is vested in the village manager or
designee and building commissioner. This chapter prescribes the procedure and
substantive standards with respect to the following administrative functions:
(1990 Code §21.12.010; amd. 2011 Code)
      1.   Zoning certificates.
      2.   Occupancy permits.
      3.   Special uses.
      4.   Variations.
      5.   Appeals.
      6.   Amendments.
      7.   Annexations.
      8.   Fees.
      9.   Penalties. (1990 Code §21.12.010; amd. Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; 2011
Code)
   B.   The position of building commissioner shall be filled by appointment by
the village manager 1 . In the absence of a duly appointed building
commissioner, the village manager shall so act. (1990 Code §21.12.010; amd.
2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  10-1-1A of this code.
11-3-2: ZONING CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Application For Certificate: Application for a zoning certificate shall
be made prior to or at the time of application for a building permit. Every
application for a zoning certificate shall be accompanied by:
      1.   A plat of survey of the piece or parcel of land, lot, lots, block or
blocks, or parts or portions thereof, drawn to scale, showing the actual
dimensions and monumenting, as certified by an Illinois registered land
surveyor, as a true copy of the piece or parcel, lot, lots, block or blocks, or
portions thereof, according to the registered or recorded plat of such land.
      2.   A plat, drawn to scale, in such form as may, from time to time, be
prescribed by the building commissioner showing the ground area, height, and
bulk of the building or structure, the building lines in relation to lot lines,
the use to be made of the building, structure, or land, and such other
information as may be required by the building commissioner for the proper
enforcement of this title.
      3.   In those cases where the building commissioner deems information is
not necessary because of existing evidence in village records, he may waive all
or portions of the requirements of subsections A1 and A2 of this section.
      4.   A statement, under oath, in a form acceptable to the building
commissioner, that said applicant has no notice and is aware of no building
code or zoning violations affecting the property including the intended
structure, building or alteration, and use which are the subject of the
application. In the event the applicant is aware of any such violations, the
applicant will disclose the same in writing.
   B.   Issuance Or Denial: The building commissioner shall, upon receipt of
such application, approve and authorize the issuance of a zoning certificate,
provided all relevant provisions of this title are complied with. The building
commissioner may, as a result of examination of the plans or on the basis of
other evidence, determine that the proposed activity will not in fact comply
with all of the provisions of this title and so advise the applicant in
writing. (1990 Code §21.12.020)
11-3-3: OCCUPANCY PERMIT 1 :
   A.   Permit Required; Existing Buildings: No building, or portion thereof,
or addition thereto, constructed, completed or first occupied after the
effective date hereof, and no addition to a previously existing building shall
be occupied, and no land, vacant on the effective date hereof, shall be used
for any purpose until a permit of occupancy has been issued by the building
commissioner. Every occupancy permit shall state that the use or occupancy
complies with the provisions of this title. Nothing in this section shall
prevent the continuance of the occupancy or use existing on the effective date
hereof of any building as it existed on said effective date, except as may be
necessary for the safety of life or property or as provided in the R-
1 district.
   B.   Application For Permit; Issuance: A permit for occupancy and compliance
shall be applied for coincident with the application for a building permit, and
shall be issued after the erection or alteration of such building has been
completed, provided the building is conforming with all applicable ordinances
of the village, and provided the building commissioner has been notified in
writing of the opportunity to inspect. (1990 Code §21.12.030; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Restrictions On Issuance: No occupancy permit for a building, or
portion thereof, or addition thereto, constructed or completed after the
effective date hereof, where a building permit has been issued after that date,
shall be issued, and no addition to a previously existing building shall be
occupied until construction has been completed and the premises inspected and
certified by the building commissioner to be in conformity with the plans and
specifications upon which the building permit was based in compliance with all
the applicable requirements of this title. Where a portion of a building may be
safely occupied pending completion of the building and compliance with all
village ordinances, an occupancy permit may be issued for that portion of the
building. The occupancy permit shall be issued or a written notice shall be
given to the applicant stating the reasons why a permit cannot be issued after
the building commissioner is notified in writing that the building or premises
is ready for occupancy.
   D.   Records Of Certificates: A record of all certificates shall be kept on
file with the village, and copies shall be furnished, on request, to any person
having a proprietary interest in the building affected. (1990 Code §21.12.030)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-3-3 of this code.
11-3-4: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Purpose: The development and execution of this title is based upon the
division of the village into districts, within which districts the use of land
and buildings, and the bulk and location of buildings and structures in
relation to the land, are substantially uniform. It is recognized, however,
that there are certain uses which, because of their unique characteristics,
cannot be properly classified in any particular district or districts without
consideration in each case of the impact of those uses upon neighboring land,
and of the public need for the particular use of the particular location. Such
uses may include, but are not limited to, public and quasi-public interest,
uses which may have a unique, special or unusual impact upon the use or the
enjoyment of neighboring property and planned unit developments.
   B.   Authority: Special uses shall be authorized or denied by the village
board in accordance with Illinois statutes. No application for a special use
shall be acted upon by the village board until after a public hearing has been
held by the planning and zoning commission, after due notice by publication has
been made as provided herein and by the applicable statutes and after the
findings and recommendations of the planning and zoning commission have been
reported to the village board. (1990 Code §21.12.070)
   C.   Application For Special Use: An application for a special use may be
made by the village board, by the planning and zoning commission or by the
owner of the property. An application for a special use shall be filed with the
village manager or designee. The application shall be accompanied by such plans
and/or data prescribed by the planning and zoning commission, and shall include
a statement in writing by the applicant along with evidence showing that the
proposed special use will conform to the standards set forth in this section.
Such application shall be forwarded from the village manager or designee to the
planning and zoning commission with a request to hold a public hearing on the
application and submit written recommendations thereon to the village board.
Due notice of receipt of an application for special use shall be forwarded to
the members of the village board. (1990 Code §21.12.070; amd. 2011 Code)
   D.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   No recommendation on an application for special use shall be made by
the planning and zoning commission except after a public hearing, of which
there shall be a notice of the time and place of the hearing published at least
once, not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days before the
hearing, in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the village. The
notice of public hearing shall contain (a) the common street address or
addresses, if any, (b) the property index number (“PIN”) or numbers of all the
parcels of the real property contained in the affected area, (c) the
approximate size of the property in acres, or square feet if under an acre, and
(d) a brief description of the nature of the matter to be heard. No special use
approved by the Village Board shall remain valid if not acted on within six (6)
months of approval, unless an extension is approved by the Village Board. Time
is of the essence.
      2.   In addition to the publication of notice, the following shall apply
to special use petitions: (1990 Code §21.12.070)
         a.   At least thirty (30) days prior to the date of hearing on a
petition for special use, the applicant shall file with the village clerk a
written certified list containing the registered owners and their mailing
addresses, as appears from the authentic tax records of the county and as
recorded in the office of the county recorder of deeds of all property within
two hundred fifty feet (250') in each direction of the location for which the
special use is requested, provided all the number of feet occupied by all
public roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in
computing the two hundred fifty foot (250') requirement. Failure to file within
thirty (30) days shall not invalidate a public hearing if all notices are
given. The planning and zoning commission shall, not more than thirty (30) days
nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing at which the application for
special use is to be considered, send written notice to the persons appearing
on the list furnished by the applicant for special use and a brief statement of
the nature of the special use requested. This notice will be sent by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
         b.   The village manager or designee shall direct the erection of at
least one sign upon each property proposed for special use. Where possible,
such sign or signs shall be located in a conspicuous place or places upon such
property at a point or points nearest any right of way, street, roadway or
public thoroughfare abutting such property. Such sign or signs shall be so
erected not less than ten (10) days before the date set for the planning and
zoning commission hearing. Any such sign or signs shall be removed subsequent
to the occurrence of either of the following: final action by the village board
or withdrawal of the application for special use. Such sign or signs shall
indicate that a zoning change is proposed and shall further set forth that
additional information can be acquired by telephoning the number indicated
thereon. Such erection and/or the continued maintenance of any such sign or
signs shall not be deemed a condition precedent to the holding of any public
hearing, to the recommendation concerning or adoption of any proposed special
use or to any other official action concerning any such special use. (1990 Code
§21.12.070; amd. 2011 Code)
   E.   Hearing: The planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing
at which evidence in support of the proposed special use may be presented by or
on behalf of the petitioner, and any evidence presented by interested persons
shall be heard. On the basis of evidence presented, the planning and zoning
commission shall record their findings of fact, their recommendations, the vote
of the members and the reasons for recommending approval or denial of the
petition for special use.
   F.   Planning And Zoning Commission Findings Of Fact And Recommendations:
The planning and zoning commission shall make written findings of fact and
shall submit same, together with its recommendations, to the village board
after the conclusion of the public hearing. No special use shall be recommended
by the planning and zoning commission unless the commission shall find that the
following standards have been satisfied:
      1.   That the establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use
will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or
general welfare;
      2.   That the special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose already permitted,
nor substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood;
      3.   That the establishment of the special use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district;
      4.   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
      5.   That adequate measures have been, or will be, taken to provide
ingress and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in public
streets; and
      6.   That the special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as such
regulations may, in each instance, be modified by the village board pursuant to
the recommendations of the planning and zoning commission.
   G.   Board Of Trustees Action:
      1.   The village board shall not act upon a proposed special use until it
has received a written report and recommendation from the planning and zoning
commission on the proposed special use.
      2.   An application for a proposed special use shall be acted upon
finally by the village board within ninety (90) days of the receipt of the
recommendation from the planning and zoning commission by the village board
unless it is mutually agreed by the village board and the petitioner that more
time is required.
   H.   Conditions: The village board may require such conditions reasonably
necessary to meet the standards set forth in this title including, but not
limited to, the establishment, location, construction, maintenance, and
operation of the special use as is deemed necessary for the protection of the
public interest. In all cases in which a special use is granted, the village
board may require such evidence and guarantee as it may deem necessary as proof
that the conditions stipulated in connection therewith are being, and will be,
in compliance. Failure to comply with such conditions imposed shall constitute
a violation of this title. (1990 Code § 21.12.070; amd. Ord. 2022-O-24, 11-7-
2022)
11-3-5: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Definition: A "variation" is a decision of the village board that, if
approved, permits an applicant to depart from the precise regulations of this
title. A variation may be granted only in the specific instances authorized in
this section and only in accordance with the standards recited in this section.
   B.   Authority: The planning and zoning commission may vary the regulations
of this title in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this title in
the specific instances set forth in this section, where the commission makes
findings of fact in accordance with the standards prescribed in this section,
and further finds, that there are practical difficulties or particular hardship
in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the regulations of this title.
All final administrative decisions of the planning and zoning commission shall
be subject to judicial review.
   C.   Authorized Variations: Variations from the regulations of this title
shall be granted by the planning and zoning commission only in accordance with
the standards established in subsection D of this section and may be granted
only in the following instances and in no others: (1990 Code §21.12.040; amd.
2011 Code)
      1.   To permit any yard or setback of less depth than a yard or a setback
required by the applicable regulations.
      2.   To allow a fence or wall in excess of the height limitations
specified in chapter 5 of this title.
      3.   To permit the use of a lot for a use prohibited solely because of
insufficient area or width, but in no event shall the area or width of the lot
be less than ninety percent (90%) of the required lot area or width.
      4.   To permit the same off street parking facility to qualify as
required facilities for two (2) or more uses; provided, that the use of such
facility by each user does not take place at the same hours of the same days of
the week.
      5.   To increase by not more than twenty percent (20%) the maximum gross
floor area ratio of any use so limited by the applicable provisions of the
zoning district. (1990 Code §21.12.040)
   D.   Standards For Variations:
      1.   The planning and zoning commission shall permit a variation of the
provisions of this title, as authorized in this section, only if the evidence,
in the judgment of the planning and zoning commission, sustains each of the
following three (3) conditions: (1990 Code §21.12.040; amd. 2011 Code)
         a.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations
governing the district in which it is located;
         b.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
         c.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality. (1990 Code §21.12.040)
      2.   For purpose of supplementing the above standards, the planning and
zoning commission, in making this determination, whenever there are practical
difficulties or particular hardship, shall also take into consideration the
extent to which the following facts, favorable to the applicant, have been
established by the evidence: (1990 Code §21.12.040; amd. 2011 Code)
         a.   That the particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved would bring a particular hardship
upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the strict letter
of the regulation were to be carried out.
         b.   That the conditions upon which the petition for variation is
based would not be applicable generally to other property within the same
zoning classification.
         c.   That the purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the property.
         d.   That the alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by
any person presently having interest in the property. (1990 Code §21.12.040)
         e.   That the granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located. (1990 Code §21.12.040; amd. 2011
Code)
         f.   That the proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the danger of
fire, or otherwise endanger the public safety, or substantially diminish or
impair property values within the neighborhood. (1990 Code §21.12.040)
      3.   The planning and zoning commission may require such conditions and
restrictions upon the premises benefited by a variation as may be necessary to
comply with the standards set forth in this section, to reduce or minimize the
injurious effect of such variation upon other property in the neighborhood, and
to implement the general purpose and intent of this title.
   E.   Application For Variation: An application for a variation may be made
by any person, firm or corporation. An application for a variation is filed
with the village clerk, shall be on a form provided by the building
commissioner and shall contain all information required on such form including
the following: (1990 Code §21.12.040; amd. 2011 Code)
      1.   Legal description of property for which a variation is requested.
      2.   The requested variation identified as authorized by one or more
standards found in subsection C of this section.
      3.   The reasons which the applicant relies upon as justifying the
requested variation.
      4.   An eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2"x11") sketch of the
property showing all lot lines, existing and proposed structures and adjoining
streets or uses and the distances between said structures and the lot lines.
(1990 Code §21.12.040)
   F.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   No variation shall be made by the planning and zoning commission
except after a public hearing before the commission, of which there shall be a
notice of the time and place of the hearing published at least once, no more
than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing, in
one or more newspapers of general circulation in the village. The notice of
public hearing shall contain (a) the common street address or addresses, if
any, (b) the property index number (“PIN”) or numbers of all the parcels of the
real property contained in the affected area, (c) the approximate size of the
property in acres, or square feet if under an acre, and (d) a brief description
of the nature of the matter to be heard. No variation approved by the Village
Board shall be remain valid if not acted on within six (6) months of approval,
unless an extension is approved by the Village Board. Time is of the essence.
      2.   The applicant shall file with the village clerk a written certified
list containing the registered owners and their mailing addresses, as appears
from the authentic tax records of the county, and is recorded in the office of
the county recorder of deeds of all property within two hundred fifty feet
(250') in each direction of the location for which the variation is requested,
provided the number of feet occupied by all public roads, streets, alleys, and
other public ways shall be excluded in computing the two hundred fifty foot
(250') requirement.
      3.   The planning and zoning commission shall, not more than thirty (30)
days nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing at which the
application for variation is to be considered, send written notice to the
persons appearing on the list furnished by the applicant, which notice shall
contain the time and place of the hearing, the address of the location for
which the variation is requested and the name and address of the applicant for
variation and a brief statement of the nature of the variation requested.
      4.   The planning and zoning commission shall hear no application for
variation unless the applicant for variation has furnished the certified list
required in this section, and the planning and zoning commission has sent out
the notices as required in this section.
   G.   Hearing: The planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing
at which evidence in support of the variation must be presented by or on behalf
of the applicant, and any evidence presented by interested parties shall be
heard. On the basis of evidence presented, the planning and zoning commission
shall record their findings of fact, their decision, the vote of the members
and the reasons for recommending granting or denying the variation to the
village board.
   H.   Expiration Of Variation: A variation shall lapse after twelve (12)
months from the date of grant thereof unless construction authorized is
commenced on a building permit for the use specified by the variation within
twelve (12) months, or the use is commenced within such period. (1990 Code §
21.12.040; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2023-O-24, 11-7-2022)
11-3-6: APPEALS:
   A.   Authority To Initiate: An appeal may be taken to the village board by
any person aggrieved, or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the
village aggrieved, by a written decision, order, or determination under this
title by the village manager.
   B.   Hearing: Such appeals may be taken within forty five (45) days of the
action complained of by filing for a hearing before a court of competent
jurisdiction. The village clerk shall transmit all of the papers constituting
the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the village clerk certifies to
the village board, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him, that, by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case, the proceedings shall not be
stayed other than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the village
board or by a circuit court on application and on notice to the building
commissioner and on due cause shown. (1990 Code §21.12.050; amd. 2011 Code)
11-3-7: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: The village board may, from time to time, in the manner set
forth in this section, amend the regulations imposed in the districts created
by this title (general amendment) or amend district boundary lines (map
amendment).
   B.   Application For Amendment:
      1.   General Amendments: General amendments may be proposed by the
village board, by the planning and zoning commission, by village staff or by
any resident of or owner of property in the village.
      2.   Map Amendments: Map amendments may be proposed by the village board,
by the planning and zoning commission or by the owner of the property.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   No recommendation on an application for amendment shall be made by
the planning and zoning commission except after a public hearing, for which
there shall be a notice of the time and place published at least once, not more
than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing, in
one or more newspapers of general circulation in the village. The notice of
public hearing shall contain (a) the common street address or addresses, if
any, (b) the property index number (“PIN”) or numbers of all the parcels of the
real property contained in the affected area, (c) the approximate size of the
property in acres, or square feet if under an acre, and (d) a brief description
of the nature of the matter to be heard.
      2.   In addition to the publication of notice, the following shall apply
to map amendments: (1990 Code §21.12.060)
         a.   At least thirty five (35) days prior to the date of hearing on an
amendment, the applicant shall file with the village manager or designee a
written certified list containing the registered owners and their mailing
addresses as appears from the authentic tax records of the county and as
recorded in the office of the county recorder of deeds, of all property within
two hundred fifty feet (250') in each direction of the location for which the
amendment is requested, provided all the number of feet occupied by all public
roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in computing the
two hundred fifty foot (250') requirement. Failure to file within thirty five
(35) days shall not invalidate a public hearing if all notices are given. The
planning and zoning commission shall, not more than thirty (30) days nor less
than fifteen (15) days before the hearing at which the application for
amendment is to be considered, send written notice to the persons appearing on
the list furnished by the applicant for amendment and a brief statement of the
nature of the amendment requested.
         b.   The village manager or designee shall direct the erection of at
least one sign upon each property proposed to be rezoned. Where possible, such
sign or signs shall be located in a conspicuous place or places upon such
property at a point or points nearest any right of way, street, roadway or
public thoroughfare abutting such property. Such sign or signs shall be so
erected not less than ten (10) days before the date set for the planning and
zoning commission hearing. Any such sign or signs shall be removed subsequent
to the occurrence of either of the following: final action by the village board
or withdrawal of the application for amendment. Such sign or signs shall
indicate that a map amendment is proposed and shall further set forth that
additional information can be acquired by telephoning the number indicated
thereon. Such erection and/or the continued maintenance of any such sign or
signs shall not be deemed a condition precedent to the holding of any public
hearing, to the recommendation concerning or adoption of any proposed map
amendment or to any other official action concerning any such amendment. (1990
Code §21.12.060; amd. 2011 Code)
   D.   Hearing: The planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing
at which evidence in support of the proposed amendment must be presented by or
on behalf of the petitioner, and any evidence presented by interested parties
shall be heard. On the basis of evidence presented, the planning and zoning
commission shall record their findings of fact, their recommendation, the vote
of the members and the reasons for recommending approval or denial of the
petition for amendment.
   E.   Planning And Zoning Commission Findings Of Fact And Recommendation:
      1.   The planning and zoning commission shall make written findings of
fact and shall submit same, together with its recommendation, to the village
board after the conclusion of the public hearing. Where the purpose and effect
of the proposed amendment is to change the zoning classification of particular
property, the planning and zoning commission shall consider the following
matters, among others:
         a.   Existing uses of property within the general area of the property
in question.
         b.   The zoning classification of property within the general area of
the property in question.
         c.   The suitability of the property in question to the uses permitted
under the existing zoning classification.
         d.   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
property in question.
         e.   Projected use of the property, as indicated in the comprehensive
plan.
      2.   The planning and zoning commission shall not recommend the adoption
of a proposed amendment unless it finds that the adoption of such amendment is
in the public interest and is not solely for the interest of the applicant.
   F.   Board Of Trustees Action:
      1.   The village board shall not act upon a proposed amendment to this
title until it has received a written report and recommendation from the
planning and zoning commission on the proposed amendment.
      2.   In case of a written protest against any proposed amendment of the
regulations or districts, signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty
percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of
twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley
therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly
opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with the village clerk,
the amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of two-thirds (2/
3) of the trustees then holding office. In such cases, a copy of the written
protest shall be served by the protester or protesters on the applicant for the
proposed amendment and a copy upon the applicant's attorney, if any, by
certified mail, at the address of such applicant and attorney shown in the
application for the proposed amendment. (1990 Code § 21.12.060; amd. Ord. 2022-
O-24, 11-7-2022)
11-3-8: ANNEXATIONS:
   A.   Notice Of Rezoning, Special Use Or Variance Pursuant To Annexation
Agreement: Notwithstanding the provisions of any other portion of the village
code or this title, property which is proposed to be rezoned or proposed to be
subjected to a special use or variance pursuant to the provisions of an
annexation agreement or amended annexation agreement which is proposed to be
adopted before, contemporaneously with, or within sixty (60) days after said
rezoning/special use/variance is effective shall not require the provision of
any public notice other than that specified by the applicable provisions of the
Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Standards For Rezoning, Special Use Or Variance Pursuant To Annexation
Agreement: The village board may, after conducting any required public hearings
for an annexation agreement or rezoning/special use/variance (as appropriate),
impose development standards, planned unit development status, variances,
special uses, zoning classifications or combined, multiuse zoning
classifications on property which is proposed to be subject to the terms of an
annexation agreement or amended annexation agreement adopted before,
contemporaneously with or within sixty (60) days after said rezoning/special
use/variance is to be effective.
   C.   Zoning Annexed Property: Property annexed into the village by virtue of
an annexation agreement or amended annexation agreement shall be zoned as
required under the terms of said agreement. Property annexed into the village
in the absence of an annexation agreement or amended annexation agreement, or
property annexed into the village under an annexation agreement which does not
include a zoning classification to be imposed on the property as an element of
the annexation agreement shall be automatically classified to the highest
restrictive zoning classification providing principally for residential use
under the then current village zoning ordinance. Said highest restrictive
zoning classification shall be SR (single-family residential zoning) at the
effective date hereof, until a more highly restrictive residential zoning
classification is adopted by the village. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-19-2008)
11-3-9: FEES:
   A.   Payment Of Fees Required: Any person, firm or corporation or agent who
files a petition for amendment or an application for appeal, variation, special
use, planned unit development (whether concept plan, preliminary plan and/or
special use or final plan), or for any other certificate of license or for the
inspection of improvements required under the terms of this title shall be
charged a fee in accordance with a schedule of fees established by the village
as appears in subsection B of this section. (Ord. 1994-5, 7-19-1994; amd. 2011
Code)
   B.   Schedule Of Fees: The following schedule of fees is established. All
fees are due and payable prior to any village action.
1. Variations:
    Filing and review fee (payable     $ 75.00
    when petition is filed)
2. Zoning Amendments And Special Uses:
    Filing and review fee (payable     125.00
    when petition is filed)
    In addition to the filing and
    review fee, the petitioner shall
    reimburse the village for the
    following costs:
     Publication of legal notice
     Certified mailing costs
     Court reporter fees
     ICC plan review, when requested
     by the village
3. Annexations:
    Filing and review fee (payable     75.00
    when petition is filed)
    In addition to the filing and
    review fee, the petitioner shall
    reimburse the village for the
    following costs:
     Publication of legal notice
     Certified mailing costs
     Court reporter fees
     ICC plan review, when requested
     by the village
4. Planned Unit Developments:
    Filing fee (payable when
    preliminary plan is filed):
     For 1 to 20 acres                 200.00
                                               plus $11.00 for each acre in
                                               addition to 20 acres (any
     For more than 20 acres            200.00  fraction of an acre less than
                                               0.5 shall be disregarded, and a
                                               fraction of 0.5 or more shall be
                                               counted as 1 acre)
     Engineering review and                    hourly charge as set by the
     construction inspection                   village engineer
     Sewer inspection by closed        0.75    per linear foot
     circuit television
     In addition to the filing,
     engineering review and inspection
     fees, the applicant shall
     reimburse the village for the
     following costs:
      Court reporter fees
      Recording fees
      ICC plan review, when requested
      by the village
      Reasonable village attorney fees
 
(1990 Code §21.12.100; amd. 2011 Code)
      5.   Payment For Each Petition Or Plan: The petitioner or applicant shall
pay the full filing fee and additional costs for each type of petition or plan
submitted. For example, if an applicant files a preliminary plan for a planned
unit development, he shall be required to pay fees for both the preliminary
plan and the special use petition in accordance with the schedule set out in
this subsection. This also applies if there are more than two (2) types of
petitions or plans filed, such as a request for annexation, zoning amendment
and approval of a preliminary plan.
      6.   Engineering Review: Fees for the engineering review of both
preliminary and final engineering plans shall be based on hourly rates as
charged by the village engineer. The fees shall be paid prior to approval of
the plans.
      7.   Engineering Inspection: Fees for engineering inspection during the
construction of the improvements shall be based on hourly rates as charged by
the village engineer for the day to day inspection and for the closed circuit
television inspection of the sanitary sewer lines.
      8.   Maximum Fees: The review and inspection fees shall be subject to a
maximum fee based on a percentage of construction cost in accordance with the
following schedule:
 
Estimated Cost Of Site Maximum Review Fee Maximum Inspection Fee
Improvement
First $ 10,000.00      1.25 percent       2.50 percent, plus TV inspection
Next 20,000.00         1.00 percent       2.00 percent, plus TV inspection
Next 50,000.00         0.80 percent       1.60 percent, plus TV inspection
Next 200,000.00        0.70 percent       1.40 percent, plus TV inspection
Next 200,000.00        0.60 percent       1.20 percent, plus TV inspection
All over 500,000.00    0.50 percent       1.00 percent, plus TV inspection
 
   (1990 Code §21.12.100)
      9.   Additional Fees And Costs 1 : In addition to any of the fees set
forth herein including any maximum fees provided in this subsection, the
petitioner or applicant shall pay and reimburse the village for all reasonable
court reporter fees, recording fees, engineering fees, attorney fees (including
those of the village attorney or attorneys) incurred by the village in
connection with any zoning request or application made under this chapter
including, but not limited to, variations, amendments, special uses,
annexations and planned unit developments. The village may require the
petitioner or applicant to deposit with the village at any time during the
application or petition process sufficient sums to guarantee payment of all
fees anticipated to be incurred by the village. The village, at its option, may
draw upon said funds to reimburse said fees incurred in connection with its
review, processing and action upon the proposed request, without obligating
itself to the applicant or petitioner to otherwise perform under this title.
Any funds so deposited by a petitioner or applicant may, at the village option,
be nonrefundable. (Ord. 1992-6, 10-20-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 5 of this code.
11-3-10: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The village president or village manager, if designated by the village
president, is designated and authorized to enforce this title. (1990 Code
§21.12.110; amd. 2011 Code)
11-3-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this title, shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to
exist shall constitute a separate offense. (1990 Code §21.12.110; amd. 2011
Code)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
11-4-1: Districts Established
11-4-2: Official Zoning Map
11-4-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
11-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this title, the village is
divided into the following zoning districts:
Residence districts:
   R-1 Residence and agricultural district
   R-2 Rural residence district
   R-3 Residence district
   R-4 Residence district
   R-5 Attached and multiple-family residence district
   SR Single-family residence district
   HD Heritage district
C-1 General commercial district
I-1 General industrial district
(1990 Code §21.1.170; amd. Ord. 1991-5, 12-7-1991; Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; 2011
Code)
11-4-2: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   There is hereby created and adopted an official zoning map for the
village setting forth specific zoning boundaries within the corporate limits of
the village. Said map shall be known as the "Official Zoning Map Of The Village
Of Pingree Grove, Illinois". Said map shall be updated annually by ordinance.
(Ord. 1990-5; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   The zoning map, together with everything shown thereon, and all
amendments thereto, shall be as much a part of this title as though fully set
forth and described herein.
   C.   The said map shall be filed with the village clerk and shall be open to
public reference at reasonable times as requested. (1990 Code §21.1.180)
11-4-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
When uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts, as shown on the zoning district map, the following rules shall
apply:
   A.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines.
   B.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following streets, highways, or
alleys shall be construed to follow the centerlines of such streets, highways
or alleys.
   C.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following village limits shall be
construed as following such village limits.
   D.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   E.   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the shoreline, shall be
construed as moving with the actual shoreline; boundaries indicated as
approximately in the center of streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies
of water shall be construed to follow the centerlines of such streams, rivers,
canals, lakes, or other bodies of water.
   F.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated
in subsections A through E of this section shall be so construed. Distances not
specifically indicated on the zoning map shall be determined by the scale of
the map.
   G.   Where physical features existing on the ground are at variance with
those shown on the zoning map, or in other circumstances not covered by
subsections A through F of this section, the board of zoning appeals shall
interpret the district boundaries.
   H.   Where a district boundary line divides a lot of one ownership, the
regulations for either portion of the lot may, in the owner's discretion,
extend to the entire lot, but not more than twenty five feet (25') beyond the
boundary of the district. (1990 Code §21.1.190)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Number Of Principal Buildings Per Lot
11-5-2: Nonconforming Single-Family Lot Of Record
11-5-3: Compliance With Bulk Regulations
11-5-4: Yards
11-5-5: Permitted Uses
11-5-6: Accessory Buildings And Uses
11-5-7: Special Uses
11-5-8: Signs
11-5-9: Fences
11-5-10: Adult-Use Cannabis
11-5-1: NUMBER OF PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS PER LOT:
In residence districts, there shall be no more than one principal building per
lot. In all districts except residence districts, more than one building may be
erected on a single lot; provided, that yard and other requirements hereof
shall be met for each building as though it were a principal building on an
individual lot. (1990 Code §21.1.050)
11-5-2: NONCONFORMING SINGLE-FAMILY LOT OF RECORD:
In residence districts, a lot which was of record on October 16, 1990, even
though not meeting the requirements of this title as to minimum lot area and/or
minimum lot width, may be used for a detached single-family dwelling, provided
such dwelling conforms with all other regulations of the district in which it
is located. (1990 Code §21.1.080)
11-5-3: COMPLIANCE WITH BULK REGULATIONS:
All new buildings shall conform to the bulk regulations established in this
title for the district in which each building is located. Further, no existing
building shall be enlarged, reconstructed, structurally altered, converted, or
relocated in such a manner as to conflict or further conflict with the bulk
regulations of this title for the district in which such building shall be
located. (1990 Code §21.1.090)
11-5-4: YARDS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   The minimum yard space required for one structure shall not again be
considered as yard space for another adjoining structure.
      2.   No lot shall be reduced in area so that the yards or other open
space becomes less than required by this title.
      3.   On streets where a front yard setback has been maintained for
buildings existing on lots or tracts having a frontage of fifty percent (50%)
or more of the total frontage on one side of that portion of any street lying
between two (2) intersecting streets, there shall be maintained a front yard
setback of not less than the average setback of the aforementioned existing
buildings.
      4.   On a vacant, through, or corner lot, either of the lot lines
abutting a street right of way line may be established as its front lot line;
except, that where two (2) or more through lots are contiguous and a front lot
line has been duly established, the same street lot line shall thereafter be
deemed to be the front lot line of all such contiguous lots. On a through lot,
a front yard shall be provided along any lot line abutting a street.
         a.   A fifty foot (50') setback shall be maintained from the right of
way line of the roadways designated in this subsection A4. Except as otherwise
provided herein, no parking or structures, including, but not limited to, all
accessory buildings, swimming pools, signs and fences over four feet (4') tall,
shall be permitted within the fifty foot (50') setback.
         b.   Where a greater setback is required by zoning district
regulations, the greater setback shall apply.
         c.   Frontage or access roads are permitted within the setback area.
         d.   One freestanding permanent sign is permitted within the setback
area, provided 1 :
            (1)   Such sign is set back a minimum of forty feet (40') from the
right of way line.
            (2)   Such sign does not exceed three and one-half feet (31/2')
above the average finished grade of the yard in which the sign is located.
            (3)   No one display surface of such sign shall contain more than
seventy (70) square feet, and the total area of all display surfaces shall not
exceed one hundred forty (140) square feet.
            (4)   The supporting structure of the sign shall be concrete or
masonry.
            (5)   The sign shall be reviewed and approved by the board of
trustees prior to issuance of a building permit for said sign. (1990 Code
§21.1.130)
   B.   Permitted Obstructions: For the purpose of this title, the following
shall be permitted obstructions when located in the yards indicated; except,
that accessory buildings or structures may occupy not more than thirty percent
(30%) of a rear yard:
      1.   In any yard:
         a.   Stairs, chimneys, overhanging roof eaves, bay windows, marquees
and awnings attached to a principal building if they do not project more than
thirty inches (30") into the required yard.
         b.   Fences to the extent permitted by the provisions in this title.
         c.   Signs to the extent permitted by the provisions of this title.
(1990 Code §21.1.120)
d. Ornamental light standards, flagpoles, trees, and shrubs; except, on corner
lots, trees and shrubs shall be no higher than thirty six inches (36") above
the centerline grade of the intersecting streets if located in the portion of a
required front yard or side yard situated within a triangle with the two (2)
sides paralleling the abutting streets being no more than twenty feet (20')
each from the corner of the lot formed by the intersection of the two (2)
street rights of way abutting the lot 2 .
         e.   Decorative structures, such as gazebos, to the extent permitted
by this title.
      2.   In front yards and side yards abutting a street: No other
obstructions, other than those permitted in subsection B1 of this section,
shall be permitted. (1990 Code §21.1.120; amd. 2011 Code)
      3.   In interior side yards: Open accessory off street parking spaces.
      4.   In rear yards; except, that when a rear yard adjoins a street, the
following shall not be located closer to a street than the distance required on
the lot for a side yard adjoining a street:
         a.   Unroofed decks not exceeding four feet (4') above adjoining
grade, open patios, detached private garages, and open accessory off street
parking spaces.
         b.   Accessory sheds, toolrooms, or other similar accessory buildings.
c. Private swimming pools in accordance with provisions of this title and other
applicable ordinances of the village 3 .
         d.   Recreational and laundry drying equipment, statuary, arbors,
trellises, and gazebos. (1990 Code §21.1.120)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  11-5-8 of this chapter.
  1. See also section
2 8-1-7 and subsections
  5-4-1A and
  8-2-5B of this code.
3 1. See subsection
  11-5-6C of this chapter for aboveground pool regulations.
11-5-5: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   No building, structure or land shall be devoted to any use other than
one which is specified as a permitted use in the zoning district in which such
building, structure, or land is located, except as follows:
      1.   Nonconforming uses, as provided in this title.
      2.   Special uses, specified as a special use in the zoning district in
which such building, structure, or land is located, after the granting of a
special use as provided in this title. (1990 Code §21.1.060)
   B.   The following uses are permitted in any district without limitation as
to minimum lot area: poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals,
pipes, mains, valves, and other similar distribution equipment for public
utilities; provided, that the installation thereof shall comply with the
requirements of the applicable administrative authorities. (1990 Code
§21.1.210)
11-5-6: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES:
   A.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses shall not be established prior to the
establishment of the principal use, and shall not include the keeping,
propagation, or culture of poultry, cattle, goats, sheep, pigs, horses, or
other livestock, whether for profit or not for profit; except, that horses may
be kept only as specified in section
11-6F-4 of this title. (1990 Code §21.1.100; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   No accessory building, unless it is structurally a part of the
principal building and unless it conforms with requirements of accessory
buildings for special uses, shall be erected or altered, nor moved to a
location within ten feet (10') of the nearest wall of the principal building,
nor within the required area for front or side yards of the lot as set forth
for the district; and in residence districts, an accessory building in a rear
yard shall be not less than five feet (5') from any property line.
      2.   No accessory building shall encroach upon that side yard of a corner
lot which is adjacent to the street nor upon that side yard of a reversed
corner lot which is adjacent to the street, nor upon the rear yard of a through
lot.
      3.   No accessory building shall have more than one story nor exceed
seventeen feet (17') in height, unless otherwise permitted as an accessory to
business and manufacturing uses, or to authorized special uses. (1990 Code
§21.1.100)
   C.   Aboveground Swimming Pools And Hot Tubs:
      1.   Aboveground swimming, soaking or wading pools, hot tubs and other
similar structures, including any pool or tub support structure, fencing or
screening, deck, pump or recreation equipment or other appurtenances thereto
(hereafter "aboveground pool structure") shall only be allowed in rear yard
areas behind the principal building and shall be generally centered between the
lines formed by the extension of lines parallel with the side walls of the
principal building into the rear yard area. No portion of any aboveground pool
structure shall be located within twenty feet (20') of a rear lot line, nor
within one foot (1') of any easement or right of way. No aboveground pool
structure may cover more than one-third (1/3) of the total area contained in
the rear yard of the lot in which it is located.
      2.   Each aboveground pool structure shall be required to have screening
in areas which face the side or rear property lines of the lot in which they
are located, and screening in any area which may be visible from a public road,
sidewalk or pathway, in compliance with the following requirements:
         a.   Screening may be located either at the perimeter of the property
line, if otherwise permitted under the applicable regulations and ordinances,
or around the perimeter of the aboveground pool structure.
         b.   Permissible screening materials include decorative wood,
decorative aluminum or decorative wrought iron fencing or screening in a height
not more than four feet (4') above the highest portion of the aboveground pool
structure, nor more than seven and one-half feet (71/2') above grade level,
provided such fencing or screening is otherwise permissible on the premises.
All such screening materials must be of a design and in a configuration
approved by the village building department.
         c.   Any aboveground swimming, soaking or wading pool, hot tub or
other similar structure which has the vertical surfaces of the exterior
finished with a wood facade shall not be required to screen such portions which
are covered by the wood facade; provided, that the top surface of the
aboveground pool structure must be covered by a locked, tamper resistant cover
constructed of a sturdy material capable of supporting not less than one
hundred fifty (150) pounds at all times when the aboveground pool structure is
not presently actively in use. Further, any vertical portion of the structure
which is not covered by a wood facade, including any support structure, fencing
or screening, deck, pump, or recreation equipment or other appurtenances
thereto, shall be required to be screened in accordance with this subsection
C2.
         d.   Any aboveground pool structure which has screening located at the
perimeter of the property line shall also be required to utilize landscape
screening at the perimeter of the aboveground pool structure. Such landscape
screening may consist of either: 1) evergreen shrub plantings with a minimum
height at time of planting of three feet (3') above grade level, with a minimum
plant spacing of three feet (3') on center; or 2) deciduous shrub plantings,
with a minimum height at time of planting of three feet (3') above grade level,
with a minimum of two (2) rows of plant screening, with a minimum plant spacing
of one and one-half feet (11/2') on center when measured for the two (2) rows
(i.e., staggered installation in 2 rows, with each row having plants installed
at 3 feet on center).
         e.   The decorative wood, decorative aluminum or decorative wrought
iron fencing required to be constructed either at the perimeter of the pool
structure or at the perimeter of the yard shall be of a nonclimbable design,
and shall completely surround such aboveground pool structure in such a manner
as to minimize the danger of unsupervised children gaining access thereto. All
gates or doors opening through such enclosure shall be equipped with a self-
closing and self-latching device designed to keep and capable of keeping such
doors or gates securely closed at all times when not in actual use. All such
latches shall be made inaccessible to small children from the outside, and
shall be installed prior to the filling of the aboveground pool structure with
water. (Ord. 2006-15, 6-3-2006)
      3.   Excluding fencing or screening required under subsection C2 of this
section, which is subject to the height restrictions contained therein, no
portion of any aboveground pool structure shall exceed forty eight inches (48")
above the grade level existing prior to installation of the aboveground pool
structure. Where the grade of a given site induces a variation in the height
from grade to the top of the pool structure, the finished level of the pool may
be up to fifty-four inches (54") from the finished grade level, provided that
some portion of the pool is not more than forty-eight inches (48") from the
finished grade level. (Ord. 2008-15, 5-5-2008)
      4.   Temporary aboveground pool structures which: a) do not exceed
twenty-four inches (24") in height; b) do not exceed sixteen feet (16') in
diameter; c) are constructed of plastic or rubber; d) do not require any
permanent structure, framework, or site preparation; and e) are in place for
not more than two (2) weeks at a time with a complete removal thereafter, are
exempt from the requirements of this subsection.
      5.   Any applicant for a permit to construct an aboveground pool
structure in an area of the village which is subject to a homeowners'
association or property owners' association shall be required to provide a
clearance letter from the applicable association prior to receipt of a permit
from the building department. Applicants who seek to obtain a permit without
providing such a clearance letter shall make application to the village board
of trustees for issuance of their permit, which may only be issued after the
holding of a public hearing on the proposed aboveground pool structure.
      6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection, this subsection
shall not apply to any aboveground pool structure installed prior to June 19,
2006; provided, that such pool structure is maintained in its configuration as
installed.
      7.   Removable, Above-Ground Swimming Pools: The following provisions
shall apply to removable, above-ground swimming pools that are not maintained
in place for longer than four (4) months per year:
         a.   Where an above-ground swimming pool is removable, a resident may
apply for a single building permit for the pool. This permit shall permit
initial installation of the pool, as well as subsequent removal and
reinstallation in subsequent years, without requirement of obtaining a new
permit on an annual basis, provided that:
            (1)   The pool remains substantially the same size and shape;
            (2)   The pool is reinstalled in substantially the same location
(and not on any public or private easements or other prohibited areas);
            (3)   The yard in which the pool is installed remains configured
substantially the same (i.e. screening and fencing is maintained, no new
permanent improvements are installed that interfere with the pool or that
create new setback areas, etc.); and,
            (4)   The pool does not require any new or additional utility
connections (e.g. does not have an electric pool heater installed, etc.).
         b.   Removeable, above-ground swimming pools are required to comply
with the applicable fencing standards, but are not required to comply with the
screening standards outlined in Section 11-5-6(c)(2)(d), above.
      8.   Alternative Swimming Pool Locations Authorized: Where possible,
swimming pools shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of the
Village zoning code, in the rear yard of a platted lot, between the lines
created by the parallel extension of the sides of the principal building, and
within the rear yard building setback line. Where such installation is not
practical based upon the presence of utility installations, patios or other
permanent improvements, a pool may be relocated so as to extend beyond the
parallel extension of the sides of the building or to move into the rear yard
building setback area, provided that:
         a.   The pool does not intrude on any public or private easements;
         b.   The pool is not located in an area that would interfere with the
drainage of the property or any other properties;
         c.   The pool is located so as to minimize the intrus1on in areas
where it would not customarily be permitted to the greatest extent possible;
         d.   The pool location is acceptable to the Chief Building Official;
and,
         e.   The pool location complies with applicable, mandatory setbacks
from items such as permanent structures and electrical services. These
provisions shall not authorize non-compliance with other Village regulations on
pools. The Chief Building Official shall be authorized to approve of pool
configurations in compliance with this alternative standard without requirement
of any public hearing or approval of a variance, where required based upon the
configuration of a given lot. If the Chief Building Official denies a permit
requesting such alternative relief under this subsection (8), the property
owner may appeal such denial by filing a petition for a zoning variation with
the Planning and Zoning Commission. This shall be the sole mechanism to contest
a denial of the Chief Building Official's determination under this subsection
(8). The Chief Building Official is further authorized to impose such
additional building permit conditions or requirements as may be appropriate
based upon the configuration of a given lot, including but not limited to
additional fencing, screening, grading or utility requirements.(Ord. 2006-15,
6-3-2006; amd. Ord. 2020-O-26, 7-20-2020)
11-5-7: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   To provide for the location of certain uses hereinafter specified which
are deemed desirable for the public welfare within a given district or
districts, but which might have an adverse effect upon nearby properties or
upon the character and future development of the district in which they are
located, a classification of special uses is established. Procedures for
special uses are set forth in this title 1 .
   B.   Where a use exists on the effective date hereof and it is classified as
a special use by this title, it shall be considered to be a lawful special use.
Additions or alterations to existing buildings or land improvements for
expansion of lawful special uses may be made within the area of the lot
included in the ownership existing at the effective date hereof, and they shall
be subject to yard, floor area ratio, and building height requirements set
forth in this title for permitted uses in the districts in which they are
located. (1990 Code §21.1.110)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  11-3-4 of this title.
11-5-8: SIGNS 1 :
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Applicability: The regulations set forth in this section shall apply
to and govern signs in all zoning districts in the Village of Pingree Grove. No
sign shall be erected, repaired, altered, relocated or maintained except in
conformance with the regulations for the district in which it is located,
unless the sign is otherwise specifically regulated by a special use permit or
variance ordinance.
      2.   Purpose: This section is established in order to create the
standards for a comprehensive and balanced system of signage regulations. The
purpose of this section is to regulate the size, color, illumination, movement,
materials, location, height, and condition of all signs placed upon private
property for exterior observation. Furthermore, this section furthers the
following ends:
         a.   To encourage, as a means of communication in the Village of
Pingree Grove, signs that are:
            (1)   Compatible with existing land uses and buildings;
            (2)   Appropriate to the type of activity to which they pertain;
            (3)   Expressive of the identity of individual proprietors;
            (4)   Legible in the circumstances in which they are seen; and
            (5)   Respectful of the reasonable rights of other property and
sign owners;
         b.   To preserve, protect and promote public health, safety and
welfare;
         c.   To improve pedestrian and traffic safety;
         d.   To maintain and enhance community appearance;
         e.   To augment the Village's ability to attract sources of economic
development by promoting the reasonable, orderly, and effective display of
signs;
         f.   To maintain and enhance community appearance and the Village's
ability to attract sources of economic development by promoting the reasonable,
orderly and effective display of signs;
         g.   To minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public
and private property;
         h.   To ensure the value of private property by assuring the
compatibility of signs with surrounding land use values;
         i.   To ensure that signs are designed as integral architectural
elements of the building and site, to which they principally relate; and
         j.   To protect against the destruction of, or encroachment on,
historic places within the Village.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases used in this
section shall be defined according to the following:
   ABANDONED SIGN: A sign which no longer directs attention to or advertises
any person, business, lessor, owner, product, idea, place, activity,
institution or service which exists, is being conducted, or available.
   ADVERTISING MESSAGE: A commercial message or communication describing
products or services being offered or available to the public.
   ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign that physically moves, uses an electronic process or
remote control, or changes lighting to express the message of the sign.
   AREA, SIGN: Sign area shall be the gross surface area within a single
continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of characters, lettering,
illustrations, ornamentations, or other figures, together with any material, or
color forming an integral part of the display or to differentiate the sign from
the background to which it is placed. Structural supports bearing no sign copy
shall not be included in gross surface area; however, if any portion of the
required structural supports becomes enclosed for decorative or architectural
purposes, that portion will be included in the total gross surface area of the
sign. For computing the area of any sign which consists of individual letters
or separate graphic elements, the area shall be deemed to be the area which
encompasses all of the letters or elements.
   AWNING: A temporary shelter supported substantially from the exterior wall
of a building and composed of non-rigid materials except for the supporting
framework when an awning contains, embodies or displays any verbiage,
trademark, logo or similar representation, these elements shall constitute a
"sign".
   BACKGROUND AREA: The entire area of a sign on which a copy could be placed,
as opposed to the copy area, when referred to in connection with wall signs.
   BANNER: A sign with its copy on non-rigid material such as cloth, plastic,
fabric or paper with not supporting framework.
   BEACON: A stationary or revolving light as well as a "searchlight", which
flashes or projects illumination, single color or multi-colored, in any manner
which is intended to attract or divert attention. This term is not intended,
however, to include any kind of lighting device which is required or necessary
under the safety regulations described by the Federal Aviation Agency or
similar governmental and regulatory agencies.
   BILLBOARD: See definition of "OFF-SITE SIGN."
   BUILDING FACE OR WALL: The wall and window area of a building in one plane
or elevation.
   BUSINESS FRONTAGE: The linear length frontage of a commercial or business
lot on: a public right-of-way; a privately-owned circulation road, which
functions as a collector and distributor of commercial traffic; or a parking
lot that serves the business establishment.
   CANOPY: A structure other than an awning made of cloth, metal or other
materials with a frame or frames, affixed to a building and/or carried by a
frame which is supported by the ground. When a canopy contains, embodies or
displays any words, trademark, logo, text, or similar representation, those
elements constitute a sign.
   CHANGEABLE COPY: Letters, numerals, or other graphics which are not
permanently affixed to a structure and/or set for permanent display, and are
intended to be alterable through manual or electronic means.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A temporary sign placed within a parcel of property upon
which construction activities of any type are being actively performed.
   COPY: Text, letters, numerals, or other similar graphics.
   COPY AREA: The space on a sign that contains text, images, numerals or other
related content.
   DECORATIVE LIGHTING: Any type of lighting element applied to the interior or
exterior of a window door, or exterior building surface, which is intended to
be viewed from the exterior of the building or structure.
   FACADE: The exterior face of wall of a building as it is presented to view,
or the apparent width and/or height of a building as viewed from streets,
driveways and parking lots. Minor variation in wall elevations do not
constitute the creation of additional facades.
   FLAG: A piece of cloth or similar material, typically oblong or square,
attachable by one side to a pole, rope, or structure.
   FLASHING SIGN: Any sign which contains an intermittent or flashing light
source, or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by
means of animation, reflective materials, or an externally mounted intermittent
light source. Automatic changing signs such as the public service time,
temperature and date signs, or electronically controlled message centers shall
be classified as "changeable copy signs", not "flashing signs".
   FREE-STANDING SIGN: Any sign supported by a structure or support that is
placed on, or anchored in the around, and is independently situated from any
building or other structure.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION: A business facility which is primarily
distinguished by the retail sale of gasoline products necessary for the day-to-
day operation of automobiles and commonly referred to as a "gas station". Such
a facility may, in addition, offer maintenance and repair services for
automobiles.
   GOOD REPAIR: For a sign to be in good repair it must possess structural
integrity, the surface condition is not excessively faded, peeling, or damaged,
any lighting from the sign is operational and maintained, and the sign is
securely fastened to its mounting structure(s). Not included in normal
maintenance or repair are the following: replacing more than fifty (50%) of the
uprights, in whole or in part, or extending the height above ground, or similar
activities which changes a sign such as an increase in the size or value of the
sign.
   GOVERNMENT SIGN: A sign that is constructed, placed, or maintained by
federal, state, or local government(s), or a sign that is required to be
constructed, placed, or maintained by federal, state, or local law.
   GROUND SIGN: Any sign where the bottom side of the sign is placed, or
mounted on a base that is permanently placed, on the ground. A ground sign
shall not have any visible posts, poles, pylons, or other supports designed to
raise the sign above the ground. Ground signs are also referred to as monument
signs.
   HEIGHT OF A SIGN: The vertical distance measured from grade to the highest
point of the sign.
   HOME OCCUPATION or NAME PLATE SIGN: A sign less than two (2) square feet of
area of the sign, installed upon the face of a residential property, without
encroaching outward more than two inches (2").
   ILLUMINATED SIGN, EXTERNAL: Any sign externally illuminated by a source of
light which is cast upon the surface of the sign to illuminate by reflection
only.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN, INTERNAL: Any sign, all or any part of which:
      1.   Is made of incandescent neon, or other types of lamps or light
source attached thereto or otherwise incorporated into such sign.
      2.   Has a border of incandescent or fluorescent lamps thereto, attached
and reflecting light thereon.
      3.   Is transparent, and lighted by electricity or other methods of
illumination.
   INFLATABLE SIGN: An inflatable object or balloon at least three feet (3') in
diameter.
   MARQUEE: Any sign covered structure projecting from and supported by a
building with independent roof and drainage provisions and which is erected
over a doorway(s) as protection against the weather.
   MEMORIAL SIGN: A sign, tablet, or plaque no larger than five (5) square
feet, relative to the area of the sign.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN (LEGAL): A non-conforming sign shall be any sign which:
      1.   A sign which was initially lawfully erected and maintained prior to
such time as it came within the purview of this section and any amendments
hereto, and which fails to conform to all applicable regulations and
restrictions contained in this section; or
      2.   A non-conforming sign for which a permit has been issued.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SIGN: A permanent, freestanding sign located at
a major entrance of a non-residential development or commercial center.
   OBSCENE: Statements, words, suggestions, or pictures of an indecent or
immoral character, such as will offend public morals or decency which are not
protected by any constitutional right of expression.
   OBSOLETE SIGN: A sign located upon the premises of a tenant, business,
organization, activity, or service that has ceased to operate or occupy the
site for longer than thirty (30) days.
   ON-SITE SIGN: A sign that relates solely to a business use or profession
conducted, or to a principal commodity service or entertainment sold, provided,
or offered upon the premises where the sign is located.
   OFF-SITE SIGN: A sign that relates in whole or in part to a business use or
profession conducted, or to commodities, services, activities, ideas, slogans
or entertainment not offered at or relating to the zoning lot upon which the
sign is placed.
   OPEN HOUSE SIGN: A sign placed upon a residential property that, while
normally not publicly accessible, has been temporarily opened to the public for
the sole purpose of marketing the sale of such residence on such property.
   PARAPET: That vertical portion of the wall of a building that rises above
the roof level.
   PENNANT: Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string,
usually in a series, designed to move in the wind.
   PERMANENT SIGN: Any sign that is not a temporary sign. Such signs shall be
constructed in accordance with the Village Building Code in effect at the time
of construction.
   PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
organization, association, or other identifiable entity or group of individuals
or entities that have joined together for a particular purpose.
   POLE SIGN: A sign mounted on one or more freestanding pole(s) or pylons.
   PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to:
      1.   Signs designed to be transported by means of wheels.
      2.   Signs converted to "A" or "T" frames.
      3.   Balloons and inflatable signs.
      4.   Signs attached to, or painted on vehicles parked and visible from
the public right-of-way, unless said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day
operations of the business on such property.
   PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner
that is leading edge extends more than six inches (6") beyond the surface of
such building or wall.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN: A sign placed upon a property that is actively marketed
for sale or rent, as evidenced by the property's listing in a multiple listing
service.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SIGN: A permanent freestanding sign made of stone,
brick, concrete, or wood located at a major entrance of a Planned Unit
Development or residential subdivision.
   ROOF LINE: Either the edge of the roof or the top of the parapet, whichever
is higher, but excluding any mansards, cupolas, pylons, chimneys or any minor
projections. In cases where a building has several roof levels, this roof or
parapet shall be the one belonging to that portion of the building on whose
wall the sign is located.
   ROOF SIGN: Any sign erected, constructed, and maintained entirely or
partially upon or over the roof of any building, with the principal support on
the roof.
   ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL: Any sign erected or constructed as an integral or
essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that
no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof
and such that no part of the sign is separated form the rest of the roof by a
space of more than six inches (6").
   RUMMAGE SALE or GARAGE SALE SIGN: A sign located at a residence or other
property at which (1) no routine for-profit activity is conducted, and (2) the
public is temporarily invited to conduct business.
   SETBACK: For the purpose of this section, the setback of a sign shall be
defined as the shortest horizontal distance between a property line and the
closest edge of a sign, including the structure and base;
      1.   Where a property line extends into a street right-of-way, the
setback of a sign shall be the shortest horizontal distance between the closest
edge of a sign, including the structure and base, the back of curb, and if
there is no curb, then the edge of the pavement of the adjacent street
      2.   Where a sign is located along an access drive, the setback of a sign
shall be the shortest horizontal distance between the closest edge of a sign,
including the structure and base, the back of curb, and if there is no such
curb, then the edge of the pavement of the adjacent access drive.
   SIGN: A sign is any name, identification, description, advertisement
display, or illustration which is affixed to or painted or represented directly
upon a building, structure, or other outdoor surface or piece of land; and
which directs attention to an object, idea, product, philosophy, place,
activity, person, institution, service organization, or business.
   The term "sign" shall not include any name, identification, description,
advertisement, display, or illustration located completely within an enclosed
building or structure, unless the content thereof shall be exposed to view from
the outside of the building.
      1.   For the purpose of this section, a building, or portion of a
building, or any item or material (opaque, transparent, colored or illuminated)
physically attached to a building which departs from standard architectural
treatment in an attempt to attract attention to the premises by reason of color
scheme and/or illumination, or part of a building or facade not required
structurally or for maintenance, and which is intended to direct attention to
products, goods, services, events or entertainment, shall be considered a
"sign" and be subject to all pertinent regulations, including sign area as
defined herein.
   Each display surface of a sign or sign face shall be considered to be a
sign.
   SIGN FACE: The entire area of a sign on which copy could be placed.
   TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign that is used only temporarily, and not permanently
mounted. This includes any sign constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric,
cardboard, wallboard, or other light materials, with or without frames,
intended to be displayed for a limited period of time.
   TEMPORARY SIGN: A banner, pennant, poster, or advertising display
constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, plastic, cardboard, wallboard, plywood, or
other like materials that is intended or appears to be intended to be displayed
for a limited period of time.
   UNLAWFUL SIGN: A sign which contravenes the terms of this section or which
the Chief Building Official has declared to be unlawful because it poses a
danger to public safety by reason of dilapidation or abandonment; a non-
conforming sign for which any permit required under any previous ordinance was
not obtained.
   VEHICULAR SIGNS: Any advertising, business, or commercial signs attached to
an automobile, which is parked or placed in position for display to the public.
   WALL SIGN: A sign which is painted on or placed against a building or other
structure and which is attached to the exterior front, rear or side wall of a
building. The term "wall sign" shall include a sign attached to a mansard roof
and not protruding, wholly or partially, above the highest point of the roof of
the building or structure to which the mansard roof is attached.
   WINDOW SIGN: A sign that is posted on the interior or exterior of a window
of a building or structure which is intended to be read from the exterior of
the building structure.
   C.   Measurements:
      1.   Area Of Individual Signs:
         a.   The measurement area of a sign shall be determined by the outer
dimensions of the frame or enclosure surrounding the sign face.
         b.   The area of a sign face or lettering not enclosed in a frame, is
determined by calculating the smallest rectangle that will encompass the
extreme limits of the sign, together with any material or color forming an
integral part of the background of the display or used to differentiate the
sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is placed. This area
calculation does not include any supporting framework, bracing, or decorative
fence or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets zoning ordinance
regulations and is clearly incidental to the display itself.
         c.   A double-faced sign shall count as two (2) signs. A double-faced
sign shall count as one (1) sign for Real Estate, Open House and Garage Sale
Signs only.
   D.   General Regulations:
      1.   Authorization By Owner: Except as provided in subsection E,
Exemptions, below, or otherwise herein, no person shall erect, alter or
relocate any sign within the Village of Pingree Grove without first obtaining
the express consent of the owner of the land upon which the sign shall be
erected, altered or relocated, in addition to obtaining a sign permit from the
Chief Building Official.
      2.   Illumination: In addition to other applicable requirements set forth
in this section, all illuminated signs must comply with the following
provisions:
         a.   With the exception of changing signs as defined herein, all
illuminated signs within the direct line of sight of dwellings in a residential
district shall be turned off between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. unless the establishment is engaged in the
operation of business during such period, in which case the sign may be lit
during the hours of operation only.
         b.   Illumination shall be installed or applied only through a
translucent surface; or recessed into the sign structure; or if the light
source is external to the sign, directed to and concentrated on the sign.
         c.   Signs shall be shaded as necessary to avoid casting a bright
light upon property located in any residential district or upon any public
street or park.
         d.   Floodlights, reflectors, or other external sources of
illumination shall be contained within a protective casing.
         e.   Illumination shall be constant in intensity and color, and shall
not consist of flashing, animated, chasing, scintillating or other illumination
conveying the sense of movement. Signs which exhibit only time and temperature
may be permitted.
         f.   Exposed light bulbs are prohibited unless approved as a part of a
Planned Unit Development.
      3.   Vertical And Horizontal Extension:
         a.   Any sign placed flat against a wall, mansard roof, canopy or
awning shall not extend beyond any vertical corner edge of such wall, canopy,
awning, roofline, or parapet:
         b.   In addition to the above requirements, placement of any wall sign
must meet the following provisions:
            (1)   Signs shall not cover, wholly or partially, any wall opening,
nor project beyond the sides of the wall to which it is affixed.
            (2)   Signs shall not project from the wall on which they are
mounted, in such a manner as to pose an obstruction or hazard to pedestrians or
vehicles.
      4.   Sign Placement In Public Areas: Except for official signs authorized
by the Village of Pingree Grove or other Highway Authority, no sign shall be
erected on any public right-of-way, tree, utility pole, traffic standard or
other public sign standard.
      5.   Placement Of Signs On Lots:
         a.   Only signs erected by the Village of Pingree Grove, Kane County
or the State of Illinois shall be permitted within a public right-of-way. All
other signs shall be placed no closer than five feet (5') from any lot line.
      6.   Planned Unit Development Signs: Signs located within a planned unit
development shall be governed by those standards set forth in the underlying
zoning district. Such standards may, however, be modified by the Village Board
in accordance with the provisions of the Planned Unit Development Title 11
Chapter 9 of the Zoning Ordinance of the Village of Pingree Grove, as now or
hereafter amended.
      7.   Inspection: Except as provided herein, every new sign in the Village
of Pingree Grove shall be subject to a general inspection, electrical
inspection, footing inspection, and any other inspection(s) deemed necessary by
the Chief Building Official. The Chief Building Official shall authorize or
conduct subsequent periodic inspections as he or she deems necessary for the
purpose of ascertaining whether a sign requires removal or repair.
      8.   Maintenance: Every sign in the Village of Pingree Grove, regardless
of whether any permit is required for such sign, shall be maintained in a safe,
presentable, legible and good structural condition at all times, including the
replacement of nonfunctioning, broken or defective parts, painting, repainting,
cleaning and any other acts required for the maintenance of such sign. Every
sign and all parts thereof, including framework supports, background, anchors
and wiring systems shall be constructed and maintained in compliance with the
building and electrical codes of the Village of Pingree Grove. All signs and
sign supports shall be kept painted or otherwise treated, to prevent rust, rot
or deterioration.
      9.   Notification To Remove:
         a.   If the Chief Building Official finds that any sign is unsafe or
insecure, or is a menace to the public, or has been constructed or erected or
is being maintained in violation of the provisions of this section, the Chief
Building Official shall issue written notice of such condition or violation to
the person to whom the permit for said sign has been issued.
         b.   All notices issued by the Chief Building Official shall describe
the sign and its location and shall specify the manner in which the sign is in
violation of the ordinance(s) of the Village of Pingree Grove. All notices
issued by the Chief Building Official shall be sent by Certified and First
Class mail to the current owner. Any time period provided for in this section
shall be deemed to commence two (2) days after the date in which the notice was
placed in the mail by the Village.
         c.   If the party to whom such notice is issued fails to remove or
alter the sign so as to comply with the provisions of this section, within
thirty (30) days of the receipt of the First Class mailing, the Chief Building
Official may remove or alter the sign at the expense of the owner.
         d.   The cost of removing the sign may be recovered by the Village of
Pingree Grove through any appropriate legal proceeding in the event that such
sign is not removed by the relevant land owner. The application for a sign
permit shall give the Village of Pingree Grove the right to enter the property
to inspect and legally remove the sign. The cost of removal shall be deemed to
include any and all incidental expenses, as well as all direct and indirect
costs, incurred by the Village of Pingree Grove in connection with removal of
the sign.
         e.   The Chief Building Official may cause any sign which is an
immediate peril to persons or property to be removed summarily and without
notice.
         f.   The Chief Building Official shall not issue any sign permit to
any person who refuses to pay costs or expenses incurred by the Village of
Pingree Grove in removing or altering any sign for which he or she has
previously obtained a permit, regardless of whether legal proceedings have been
initiated for the purpose of recovering such costs.
   E.   Exemptions: Unless otherwise stated, signs listed in this Section are
permitted in all zoning districts. The following exempt signs do not reauire a
sign permit, and shall not be counted when calculating the number of signs or
square footage on a premise. However, such signs shall conform to all other
general regulations in this section (for example; height area, setbacks,
clearance, etc.):
      1.   Memorial signs, no larger than five (5) square feet.
      2.   Signs erected by a governmental body or government signs, or under
the direction of such a body.
      3.   One (1) non-residential construction identification sign, up to a
maximum of sixty four (64) square feet shall be permitted. Such signs shall be
confined to the site of the construction and shall be removed within three (3)
days after issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy.
      4.   Temporary non-residential property real estate signs, up to sixty-
four (64) square feet in any commercial or industrial zoning district, and must
be located on the subject property. Such sign may not be illuminated.
      5.   Residential Real Estate Signs subject to the following:
         a.   Small real estate signs for properties less than one (1) acre,
provided such signs shall not be more than ten (10) square feet in area,
provided that no more than one (1) such sign shall be permitted in each yard
abutting a public street. Small real estate signs shall be freestanding signs
set back from and not less than ten feet (10') from any lot line and shall not
exceed six feet (6') in height and shall not be illuminated. Small real estate
signs shall be removed promptly after the sale of the underlying real estate.
         b.   Large real estate signs for properties more than one (1) acre,
provided such signs shall not be more than thirty-two (32) square feet in area,
provided that no more than one (1) such sign shall be permitted in each yard
abutting a public street. Large real estate signs shall be freestanding signs
set back not less than ten feet (10') from any lot line and shall not exceed
ten (10) feet in height. Such signs shall not be illuminated. Large real estate
signs shall be removed promptly after the sale of the underlying real estate.
      6.   Open House Signs, subject to the following:
         a.   Shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area per sign;
         b.   Shall be put up while the property on which the sign is located
actively invites the public and shall be removed and no longer displayed after
the conclusion of such event;
         c.   There shall be no flags, banners, or balloons attached to the
signs;
         d.   Shall not be placed in the State of Illinois, Kane County, or
Village of Pingree Grove right-of-way.
      7.   Garage Sale Signs, subiect to the following:
         a.   Shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area per sign;
         b.   Shall only be erected no more than twenty-four (24) hours before
the property upon which the sign is placed actively invites the public to
conduct business, and must be removed no more than twentv-four (24) hours of
when the public is no longer invited to conduct business;
         c.   There shall be no flags, banners, or balloons attached to the
signs;
         d.   Shall not be placed in the State of Illinois, Kane County, or
Village of Pingree Grove right-of-way.
      8.   Window signs, posted within public view, shall not exceed twenty-
five percent (25%) of each window surface area throuah which or on which they
are seen. Illuminated signs shall be no larger than six (6) square feet. Any
establishment with a liquor license shall allow for a clear view of the
interior of premises.
      9.   Signs required by federal, state, or local law.
      10.   Accessory or Directional signs, may be double-sided but shall be
limited to four (4) square feet of sign area per sign face. Signs shall not be
greater than four feet (4') in height. The Chief Building Official may,
however, approve exceptions to these requirements if additional height and area
are necessary to include essential information. No more than two (2) accessory
or directional signs shall be erected on a single property.
   F.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   General standards for temporary signs.
         a.   Permits for temporary signs shall be approved by the Chief
Building Official;
         b.   Only one (1) temporary sign per zoning lot is permitted at any
given time, unless otherwise allowed by the Chief Building Official. The Chief
Building Official may permit two (2) temporary signs per zoning lot if the lot
is a corner lot;
         c.   Shall be safely anchored to the around or building, as determined
by the Chief Building Official and/or designated agent;
         d.   Illumination is prohibited in or adjacent to residential
districts (excluding temporary subdivision project signs);
         e.   Temporary signs shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in
area;
         f.   Display shall be limited to thirty (30) day periods, and shall be
limited to four (4) such periods per calendar year unless otherwise allowed.
Display of less than thirty (30) days shall count as the full period -
remaining days shall not be applied to subsequent display periods; and
         g.   Must be located on the premises of the permit holder unless
otherwise indicated or allowed by the sign permit.
         h.   One (1) advertising banner shall be permitted per wall of a
commercial building that fronts onto a public street if it advertises a
temporary special site promotion or sale.
   G.   Signs Regulated By Zoning District:
      1.   All Districts:
         a.   Development Signs: Free-standing signs shall be permitted for the
purpose of identifying Planned Unit Developments or subdivisions in any zoning
district subject to the following conditions:
            (1)   Number: There shall be a maximum of two (2) such free-
standing sign allowed provided.
            (2)   Size: The Sign Face shall not exceed sixty four (64) square
feet.
      2.   Residential:
         a.   Home Occupation/Name Plate Signs: Home occupation/name plate
signs shall be permitted as follows;
            (1)   There shall be a maximum of one (1) such signs per zoning
lot.
            (2)   The maximum size of any home occupation/nameplate signs shall
be two (2) square feet.
            (3)   Home occupation/nameplate signs shall be installed flat
against the face of the building, rather than in a front or side yard.
            (4)   Home occupation/nameplate signs shall not be illuminated.
      3.   Non-Residential:
         a.   Wall Signs: Wall signs for businesses in non-residential
districts shall be permitted as follows:
            (1)   Number: There shall be a maximum of one (1) such wall sign
for each business establishment provided, however that:
               (A)   A maximum of two (2) such wall signs shall be permitted
for each business establishment when:
                  i.   The lot on which the sign refers is located on a corner
lot.
                  ii.   The building upon which the sign will be placed has
more than one (1) business frontage. For the purposes of this section, a
business frontage shall mean a public right-of-way, a customer access drive, or
a parking lot which serves the commercial establishment.
               (B)   When more than one (1) business is located in a building,
each establishment shall be permitted to display a wall sign on the front and
corner side facades of a building.
            (2)   Area: The maximum size of wall signs shall not exceed five
percent (5%) of the building facade area upon which the sign is to be located,
to a maximum of one hundred (100) square feet. When more than one sign is
displayed to provide identification for businesses in a single building, the
following shall apply:
               (A)   The total area of signs displayed on a building facade
shall not however, exceed five percent (5%) of the building facade, to maximum
of one hundred (100) square feet.
         b.   Free-Standing Ground Signs:
            (1)   There shall be a limit of one (1) freestanding ground sign
per lot.
            (2)   No around sign shall exceed ten feet (10') in height as
measured from the ground.
            (3)   The sign area shall not exceed forty (40) square feet per
side, limited to two (2) sides, or eighty (80) square feet total.
            (4)   Free-standing signs shall be located with a minimum setback
of fifteen feet (15') from any property line or from the back of the curb of an
adjacent access drive. In all cases, the free-standing sign shall be set back
twenty feet (20') from the back of the curb of an adjacent public street.
            (5)   Free-standing signs shall be installed so as not to impede
normal pedestrian movement nor obstruct the driver line-of-sight for motor
vehicle traffic.
         c.   Free-Standing Signs for Converted Dwellings: Free-standing signs
for businesses located in dwellings converted for commercial use shall comply
with the following;
            (1)   Free-standing signs shall be permitted only in lieu of wall
signs otherwise allowed by the terms of this section.
            (2)   Not more than one (1) free-standing sign shall be permitted
for each zoning lot.
            (3)   The total height, including the base of a free-standing sign
shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height.
            (4)   The sign area shall not exceed twenty (20) square feet per
side, limited to two (2) sides, or forty (40) square feet total.
            (5)   The setback of the sign from all property lines shall be as
determined by the Chief Building Official, to assure that the sign is visible
from the public right-of-way, but does not obstruct line of sight for
motorists.
         d.   Awning Or Canopy Signs: Letters may be painted or otherwise
permanently affixed to any permissible awning or canopy subject to the
following conditions:
            (1)   Lettering and/or symbols shall not project above, below, or
beyond the physical dimensions of the awning or canopy.
            (2)   Awning or canopy sign area shall count toward the total wall
sign area.
            (3)   Internal illumination of awnings and canopies shall be
prohibited.
      4.   Changeable Copy: Changeable copy shall only be permitted for free-
standing and wall signs, provided such sign area does not exceed forty (40)
square feet.
   H.   Nonconforming Signs: Any sign which existed lawfully at the time of the
adoption of this section and which becomes nonconforming upon adoption of this
section shall be considered as a legal nonconforming use and permitted to
remain. It is reasonable that special conditions be placed upon the continuance
of existing nonconforming signs. This special condition program permits the
current owner to continue using the nonconforming sign while at the same time
assuming that the sign will eventually comply with the regulations of the
District in which the sign is located. A legal, nonconforming sign's status
shall terminate under any of the following circumstances:
      1.   By Abandonment: Abandonment or cessation for a period of ninety (90)
days or the change of the principal use to which the nonconforming sign is
accessory shall terminate immediately the right to maintain such sign.
      2.   By Destruction, Damage Or Obsolescence: The right to maintain any
nonconforming sign shall terminate and shall cease to exist whenever the sign:
         a.   Is damaged or destroyed, from any cause whatsoever, to the extent
that its repair or replacement cost exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its
replacement cost as of the date it became nonconforming;
         b.   Becomes obsolete or substandard when a request for rezoning is
initiated by the owner of the property;
         c.   Becomes a hazard or a danger to the safety or welfare of the
general public.
      3.   By Change In Name Or Use: Change in the use or the name of the
business shall terminate immediately the right to maintain a nonconforming
sign. The owner has ninety (90) days from the change in use or tenant within
which to bring the nonconforming sign into compliance.
      4.   By Redevelopment: Nonconforming signs which are moved or affected by
the redevelopment of a property; facade improvement program; or roadway
widening shall not be reinstalled, but shall instead be brought into
conformance with all elements of this section, unless these signs are
determined to be of historic value to the Village of Pingree Grove.
   I.   Permit Application And Fees: Except as otherwise provided in this
section, it shall be unlawful for any person to erect, re-erect, alter, or
relocate any sign without first having obtained a building sign permit and in
accordance with all rules and stipulations outlined in Village Code Title 10
Chapters 3 and 4 unless otherwise set forth herein. Where electrical and/or
construction permits are required in connection with erecting, re-erecting,
relocating, or altering a sign, these shall be obtained at the same time as the
building sign permit and in accordance with all rules and stipulations outlined
in Village Code Title 10, Chapters 3 and 4.
      1.   Variances: Any requested variance or exception from the terms of
this section shall be reviewed and evaluated by the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission at a public meeting. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall act as
a recommending body to the Village Board of Trustees, who shall be responsible
for taking action on the requested variance or exception.
      2.   Limitations:
         a.   Sign permits allow the erection, re-erection, alteration, or
relocation of a sign only on the property designated in the permit and only by
the person to whom the permit was issued and shall not be transferable.
         b.   A separate sign permit must be obtained for each sign for which a
permit is required.
   J.   Substitution/No Discrimination Against Non-Commercial Signs Or Speech:
Signs containing non-commercial speech are permitted anywhere that commercial,
advertising, or business signs are permitted, subject to the same regulations
applicable to such signs. A substitution of copy may be made without any
additional approval or permitting. The purpose of this provision is to prevent
any inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over non-commercial speech or
favoring of any particular noncommercial message over any other non-commercial
message. This provision prevails over any more specific provision to the
contrary. This provision does not create a right to increase the total amount
of signage on a parcel or allow the substitution of an off-site commercial
message in place of an on-site commercial message.
   K.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this section shall be subject to a fine neither less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a
violation occurs or continues to occur shall be deemed a separate violation as
provided by local ordinance.
(1990 Code § 21.1.150; amd. Ord. 2025-O-03, 3-17-2025)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection
  11-5-4A4d of this chapter.
11-5-9: FENCES 1 :
   A.   Permit Requirements 2 : No fence shall be constructed or replaced prior
to obtaining a building permit. Application for a building permit shall include
a description of the type of fence and total linear feet of fence to be
installed and a copy of the plat of survey indicating lot dimensions, all
easements and where the fence is to be located on the lot.
   B.   General Requirements:
      1.   Location: A fence, including all posts, bases and other structural
parts, shall be located completely within the boundaries of the lot on which it
is located. No fences shall be located closer than twelve inches (12") to a
public sidewalk.
      2.   Finished Side: All fences must be erected so that the finished side
of the fence faces outward or away from the lot on which the fence is erected.
      3.   Metal Fences: All metal fences shall be at least 9-gauge wire or a
minimum of 0.148 inch. (1990 Code §21.1.160)
      4.   Barbed Wire Fences 3 : It is unlawful to construct and/or maintain
any fence composed in whole or in part of barbed wire(s) or any similar
material in any residential or business district except as provided in this
section for public or private utility facilities and other public uses. Such
fences may be erected in any other district, provided they are not located in a
front yard or side yard adjoining a street. Barbed wire(s) shall be placed no
less than six feet (6') above finished grade and shall extend inward toward the
interior lot.
      5.   Maintenance And Repair: It shall be the responsibility of the owner
and/or occupant of the property where a fence is erected to maintain the fence
in good repair at all times. If a fence is found to be in a deteriorated
condition and/or in need of repair, the village building commissioner may order
the fence to be repaired, replaced or removed depending upon the condition of
the fence. Such order shall be in writing. (1990 Code §21.1.160; amd. 2011
Code)
   C.   Residential District Fences: Except as otherwise provided in this
section, fences in residential districts may be erected, placed and maintained
in a rear yard or interior side yard to a height not exceeding six feet four
inches (6'4") above the finished grade. A fence which is located in a required
front yard and shall not exceed thirty inches (30") above the finished grade.
On corner lots, fences shall be no higher than thirty inches (30") above the
centerline grade of the intersecting streets if located in the portion of a
required front yard or side yard situated within a triangle with the two (2)
sides paralleling the abutting streets being no more than twenty feet (20')
each from the corner of the lot formed by the intersection of the two (2)
street rights of way abutting the lot. (1990 Code §21.1.160)
   D.   Business District Fences:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, fences in the business
districts may be erected, placed and maintained in the required front yard and
corner side yard setbacks to a maximum height of six feet (6'); except, that on
corner lots, fences shall be no higher than thirty inches (30") above the
centerline grade of the intersecting streets if located in the portion of a
required front yard or side yard situated within a triangle with the two (2)
sides paralleling the abutting streets being no more than twenty feet (20')
each from the corner of the lot formed by the intersection of the two (2)
street rights of way abutting the lot. (1990 Code §21.1.160; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   Whenever a business abuts a residential district or a residential
use, the owner of said business property shall be required to erect and
maintain a solid fence of not less than six feet (6') nor more than seven feet
(7') in height to screen said business use from said residential district or
residential use. The village board may allow the use of a landscaped berm
treatment in lieu of a fence if approved as part of a planned development.
Fencing shall not be required in the district unless specified by the village
board. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
   E.   Industrial District Fences: Except as otherwise provided in this
section, fences in industrial districts may be erected, placed and maintained
in front yard and corner side yard setbacks to a maximum height of three feet
(3'). In a rear or interior side yard, a fence shall not exceed fifteen feet
(15') in height above the finished grade. Open fences adjoining residentially
zoned property shall be screened with berming and/or landscaping. (1990 Code
§21.1.160)
   F.   Tennis Courts And Swimming Pools: Fences for tennis courts shall not
exceed twelve feet (12') in height. Fences for tennis courts must be erected no
less than five feet (5') from a lot line, and the finished side of the fence
shall face outward or away from the lot on which the fence is erected. Fences
for outdoor swimming pools shall meet the requirements as set forth in the
international building code, 2003 edition 4 . (1990 Code §21.1.160; amd. 2011
Code)
   G.   Public Or Private Utility Facilities And Other Public Uses: Fences for
security or screening purposes may be installed on the property of any public
or private utility facilities in any yard in any zoning district. Metal fences
installed to enclose electrical supply stations having energized electrical
equipment shall be a minimum of seven feet (7') in height and shall be
effectively grounded. Barbed wire may be installed on the top of the fence in
accordance with subsection B4 of this section. Fences on public or private
school or park properties or on other publicly owned properties in any zoning
district may be erected to a maximum height of fifteen feet (15') in any yard.
   H.   Detention/Retention Areas: Fences shall not be installed in or through
a stormwater detention or retention pond, nor shall a fence be installed less
than ten feet (10') from the inlet or outlet opening or less than such greater
distance as may be required by generally accepted engineering principles, as
approved by the village engineer.
   I.   Drainage And Utility Easements:
      1.   Fences may be installed in or across a drainage easement; provided,
that the bottom of the fence has a vertical clearance of not less than eight
inches (8") or such greater clearance as may be required by generally accepted
engineering principles as approved by the village engineer. The vertical
clearance shall be maintained for the entire length of that portion of the
fence that is installed in or across the drainage easement.
      2.   Fences may be installed in or across a drainage or utility easement,
provided the property owner completes an affidavit and release stating that he
has read the requirements for fences located in drainage and utility easements,
and that he agrees to comply therewith, and that he, for himself, his heirs,
successors and assigns, releases the village, its officers, agents and
employees from any liability in connection with any moving or removal of any
fence or any other structure or form of landscaping within the easement area.
The affidavit shall be recorded by the village in the office of the county
recorder of deeds.
      3.   In the event village shall, by its staff or board of trustees,
determine it necessary to excavate or have access across the easement premises,
the owner shall remove the fence at the direction of the village, and in the
event of failure thereof, the village may remove the same at the owner's
expense, and the village shall not be required to replace the same. (1990 Code
§21.1.160)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-5-2 of this code.
2 2. See subsection
  10-4-4C of this code for fee.
3 1. See also subsection
  10-5-2D2 of this code.
  1. See subsection
4 11-5-6C of this chapter for screening requirements for aboveground swimming
  pools and hot tubs.
11-5-10: ADULT-USE CANNABIS:
   A.   Purpose And Applicability: It is the intent and purpose of this Section
to provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and dispensing of
adult-use cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the Village of
Pingree Grove. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in
the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Act), as it may be amended from time to
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations provided
below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of the state
or local regulations shall apply.
   B.   Special Use: Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishment facilities, as
defined herein, requiring approval of a Special Use in the respective districts
in which they are requested shall be processed in accordance with Section
11-3-4 (Special Uses) of this Title and Section 3 of this Section
11-5-10 (Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components) as provided herein, along with
all other applicable zoning regulations.
   C.   Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components: In determining compliance with
Section
11-3-4 (Special Uses) of this Title, the following components of the Adult-Use
Cannabis Facility shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the circumstances
affecting the particular property in the context of the existing and intended
future use of the properties (in addition to the normal factors evaluated for a
Special Use):
      1.   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
      2.   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including
co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, security
installations/security plan and building code compliance. Any security
installations/security plan shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Chief of Police, and subject to any revisions required by the Chief.
      3.   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
      4.   Anticipated parking demand based on applicable parking standards and
available private parking supply.
      5.   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
      6.   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation.
      7.   Proposed signage plan.
      8.   Compliance with all requirements provided in Section 4 (Adult-Use
Cannabis Craft Grower); Section 5 (Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center);
Section 6 (Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization); Section 7 (Adult-Use
Cannabis Infuser Organization); Section 8 (Adult-Use Cannabis Processing
Organization); or Section 9 (Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization), as
applicable.
      9.   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with
Village Code or other applicable laws.
   D.   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower: In those zoning districts in which an
Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower may be located, the proposed facility must
comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for
residential purposes.
      3.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
      4.   For purposes of determining required parking, Adult-Use Cannabis
Craft Grower shall be classified as "Manufacturing" per Section
11-10-4 (Off Street Parking Requirements), provided, however, that the Village
may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis
completed through Section
11-5-10(2) (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the Village affirming
compliance with the Village Zoning Code and all requirements of the Act.
   E.   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center: In those zoning districts in
which an Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for
residential purposes.
      3.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
      4.   For purposes of determining required parking, Adult-Use Cannabis
Craft Grower shall be classified as “Manufacturing” per Section
11-10-4 (Off Street Parking Requirements), provided, however, that the Village
may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis
completed through Section
11-5-10(2) (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the Village affirming
compliance with the Village Zoning Code and all requirements of the Act.
   F.   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization: In those zoning districts
in which an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two hundred
fifty (250) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used
for residential purposes.
      3.   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by a dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities
of the dispensing organization as authorized by the Act, and no dispensing
organization shall also sell food for consumption on the premises other than as
authorized in Section F.5 below in the same tenant space.
      4.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
      5.   Facility may be issued a permit to host on-site consumption of
cannabis if located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the
dispensing organization and smoke from the facility does not migrate into an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited. The security plan for the facility
required by Section J. (Additional Requirements) shall also reflect adequate
provisions to respond to disruptive conduct and over-consumption. The on-site
consumption permit shall be reviewed annually and may be suspended or revoked
following the same procedures applicable to the suspension or revocation of
Liquor Licenses as provided in Title 4, Chapter 2 of the Village Code.
      6.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as "Retail Store" per Section
11-10-4 (Required Parking Spaces) of the Village of Pingree Grove Municipal
Code, provided, however, that the Village may require that additional parking
be provided as a result of the analysis through Section
11-5-10(2) (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
      7.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the Village affirming
compliance with the Village Zoning Code and all requirements of the Act.
   G.   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization: In those zoning districts in
which an Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two hundred
fifty (250) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used
for residential purposes.
      3.   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by an infusing organization shall be devoted to the activities
of the infusing organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct
any sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
      4.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as "Manufacturing" per Section
11-10-4 (Required Parking Spaces) of the Village of Pingree Grove Municipal
Code, provided, however, that the Village may require that additional parking
be provided as a result of the analysis through Section
11-5-10(2) (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the Village affirming
compliance with the Village Zoning Code and all requirements of the Act.
   H.   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization: In those zoning districts
in which an Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two hundred
fifty (250) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used
for residential purposes.
      3.   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by a processing organization shall be devoted to the activities
of the processing organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not
conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the
Act.
      4.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as "Manufacturing" per Section
11-10-4 (Required Parking Spaces) of the Village of Pingree Grove Municipal
Code, provided, however, that the Village may require that additional parking
be provided as a result of the analysis through Section
11-5-10(2) (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the Village affirming
compliance with the Village Zoning Code and all requirements of the Act.
   I.   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization: In those zoning districts
in which an Adult-Use Transporting Organization may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two hundred
fifty (250) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used
for residential purposes.
      3.   The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the tenant
space in which it is located. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
      4.   Purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "Manufacturing" per Section
11-10-4 (Required Parking Spaces) of the Village of Pingree Grove Municipal
Code, provided, however, that the Village may require that additional parking
be provided as a result of the analysis through Section
11-5-10(2) (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the Village affirming
compliance with the Village Zoning Code and all requirements of the Act.
   J.   Additional Requirements: Petitioner shall install building
enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements, as set
forth in the special use permit, to ensure the safety of employees and
customers of the adult-use cannabis business establishments, as well as its
environs. Said improvements shall be determined based on the specific
characteristics of the floor plan for an Adult-Use Cannabis Business
Establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent with the
requirements of the Act. The Chief of Police shall review and provide
recommended conditions of approval for any proposed special use permit. Such
conditions may also regulate building occupancy, co-tenancies, hours of
operation or dispensing, or such other conditions as the Village shall deem
appropriate.
   K.   Co-Location Of Cannabis Business Establishments: The Village may
approve the co-location of an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization with
an Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower Center or an Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser
Organization, or both, subject to the provisions of the Act and the Special Use
criteria within the Village of Pingree Grove Municipal Code. In a co-location,
the floor space requirements of Section F.3 and G.3 shall not apply, but the
co-located establishments shall be the sole use of the tenant space.
   L.   Additional Conditions Of Approval: The Village specifically notes that
the nature of Adult-Use Cannabis businesses poses potential threats to public
safety, welfare and morals that are of significant potential concern, and thus
the Village reserves the right to impose additional conditions of approval with
regard to any proposed cannabis-related business.
   M.   Signs For Adult-Use Cannabis Businesses: Any Adult-Use Cannabis
business that seeks to install any sign age visible from the exterior of their
premises/property, including but not limited to freestanding signage, building-
mounted signage, window-mounted signage or vehicle mounted sign age, whether
temporary or permanent, shall be required to obtain approval of the Village
Board for all such signage as a component of their Special Use permit
application. Any proposed changes to the approved signage (if any) shall
require an amendment of the Special Use permit. (Ord. 2019-O-51, 12-2-2019)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Purpose; Classifications
11-6-2: Home Occupations
11-6-3: [Reserved]
11-6-4: Conversions
11-6-1: PURPOSE; CLASSIFICATIONS:
The residence district regulations are intended to encourage a range of housing
styles, prices, and living environments which are adequately insulated from the
undesirable aspects of adjacent land uses while maintaining the single-family
dwelling as the basic form of housing unit in Pingree Grove. In doing so, the
regulations govern the location, type, intensity, and quality of development in
the residential areas of the Village. The regulations of each district are
designed to protect existing residential development while allowing new growth
in accordance with specific development standards and objectives. Toward this
end, the residential uses in the Village have been grouped into the following
classifications:
 
R-1 Residence and Agricultural District
R-2 Rural Residence District
R-3 Residence District
R-4 Residence District
R-5 Attached and Multiple-Family Residence District
SR  Single-Family Residence District
HD  Heritage District
 
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
11-6-2: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the home occupation standards and requirements
is to allow occupations to be conducted in a dwelling unit which are compatible
with the neighborhoods in which they are located and which do not interfere
with the rights of the surrounding property owners to enjoy the residential
character of the neighborhood.
   B.   Standards: The following standards for home occupations are intended to
ensure compatibility with the residential use and with the residential
character of the neighborhood, and there must be clearly a secondary or
incidental status of the home occupation in relation to the residential use of
the dwelling unit:
      1.   A home occupation shall be conducted only by members of the family
residing in the dwelling unit.
         a.   Employee Limitations: Only one employee who does not reside in
the dwelling unit on the lot where a home occupation is conducted may be
present in the home at any one time in connection with the home occupation.
      2.   There may be more than one home occupation permitted per dwelling
unit; however, the total combined home occupations for any single dwelling unit
may not exceed any of the standards set forth in this title. The dwelling unit
must be the principal residence of the member(s) of the family conducting the
home occupation.
      3.   A home occupation that services customers or clients at the dwelling
unit may attract no more than eight (8) customers or clients per day but not
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. one day and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. the next day.
      4.   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling
unit and shall be limited to three hundred (300) square feet or a maximum of
twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of the dwelling unit which
includes the basement or attached garage, whichever is less. In addition, up to
twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area of a "cellar", as defined in
section
11-2-2 of this title, may be used for a home occupation. No outdoor storage or
display of business equipment, materials, merchandise, inventory, or heavy
equipment shall be allowed in connection with any home occupation.
      5.   There shall be no signs on the premises for home occupations other
than those permitted for residence districts under this title; no exterior
display; no exterior storage of merchandise, goods, supplies, equipment or
materials; and no exterior alterations, permanent or temporary, to the
principal or accessory buildings that would change the residential character of
the structure.
      6.   Clients or customers of the home occupation may not increase
vehicular traffic flow and parking by more than two (2) additional vehicles at
a time, and any need for parking generated by the conduct of such occupation
shall be met by off street parking spaces which are in keeping with the
residential character of the neighborhood.
      7.   The receipt or delivery of merchandise, goods, or supplies for use
in a home occupation shall be limited to the United States mail, similar parcel
delivery service (excluding semi- trucks/trailers), or private passenger
automobile.
      8.   The use of an accessory building for a home occupation is allowed,
provided the occupation is conducted wholly within the accessory building and
does not exceed three hundred (300) square feet in area.
      9.   No alteration of any kind shall be made to the dwelling unit where a
home-based business is conducted that would change its residential character as
a dwelling unit.
      10.   A home occupation shall not generate noise, vibration, glare,
fumes, odors, or electrical interference beyond what normally occurs in a
residential use. No home occupation shall cause the rate of water usage
(gallons per minute) to exceed the standard rate capable of being produced by
the existing water service, but in no case shall water usage exceed the rate
capable of being produced by a one inch (1") water service. No mechanical or
electrical equipment shall be installed or maintained other than such as is
customarily incidental to a home. No mechanical or electrical equipment shall
be operated in such a way as to interfere with the use and enjoyment of
neighboring properties or indicate that the structure is being used for a non-
residential purpose, or to place demands on public infrastructure that are
excessive when compared to a typical single-family home.
      11.   Except for articles produced on the premises or incidental to a
service provided, no stock in trade shall be displayed or sold on the premises.
      12.   On-line marketplace sale of items authorized for sale by this
section is permitted.
      13.   The following uses, in addition to any which do not satisfy the
other standards and requirements set forth herein, shall not be permitted as
home occupations:
Amusement establishments.
Animal grooming.
Animal hospitals.
Clinics or hospitals.
Clubs or lodges, private, fraternal or religious.
Dry cleaning and laundry receiving establishments.
Firearm sales, supply and service.
Food stores.
Fuel sales.
Funeral parlors or undertaking establishments.
Furniture sales.
Garages, public.
Liquor stores.
Pet shops.
Renting or sale of trailers or automotive vehicles.
Restaurants or taverns.
Retail stores for stock displayed and/or sold on the premises.
Stables or kennels.
Wholesale establishments.
      14.   A home occupation shall not be established prior to the member(s)
of the family conducting the home occupation taking possession of and residing
in the dwelling unit.
   C.   Exemption: Daycare homes are exempted from the standards and
requirements for home occupations set forth in subsections B1, B3, B4, B6 and
B8 of this section.
   D.   Affidavit:
      1.   For each home occupation, it is required that an affidavit be
completed and kept on file with the Village Clerk. The signed affidavit will
state the type of home occupation proposed and shall further state that the
applicant has read the requirements for a home occupation and agrees to comply
therewith.
      2.   If a person has been validly operating a home occupation in
compliance with previous ordinances as of the effective date hereof, he or she
need not sign an affidavit but shall be permitted to do so subject however to
chapter 11 of this title. Such affidavit shall be personal to the occupant,
occupation and address listed in the affidavit.
      3.   A condition of lawfully maintaining a home based business, each
affidavit, at the time of filing, is subject to review by the Chief of Police.
The Chief reserves the right to require each filer to submit a security plan,
including contact information, a description of the operation and the number of
persons likely to be present, a description of any hazards at the premises, a
floor-plan and other relevant information, for any home based business which
the Chief believes to present any public safety concern based on the nature,
location or configuration of the business. This requirement shall apply to all
home-based day care centers and any other business designated by the Chief.
   E.   Special Use Permit Required: Any resident who wishes to conduct a
business in their home but who does not meet the requirements of this section,
with the exception of non- permitted home occupations, may apply for a special
use permit pursuant to the special use procedures of the zoning regulations.
(Ord. 2018-O-23, 9-17-2018)
11-6-3: [RESERVED]:
11-6-4: CONVERSIONS:
In R residence districts, conversions of existing residential buildings shall
be governed by the following:
   A.   The quotient secured by dividing the floor area of all dwelling units
on a lot by the number of dwelling units on such lot shall not be less than
five hundred (500) square feet.
   B.   No existing residential use shall be so converted as to conflict with,
or further conflict with, the requirements in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Where applicable, an efficiency dwelling unit or lodging room may be
considered 0.75 dwelling unit in determining compliance with subsection A of
this section.
(1990 Code §21.3.030)
ARTICLE A. R-1 RESIDENCE AND AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6A-1: Purpose And Description
11-6A-2: Permitted Uses
11-6A-3: Special Uses
11-6A-4: Temporary Uses
11-6A-5: Accessory Uses
11-6A-6: Site And Structure Requirements
11-6A-7: District Standards
11-6A-1: PURPOSE AND DESCRIPTION:
   A.   The R-1 residence and agricultural district is intended to create an
environment which promotes a mixture of agriculture uses and estate type
single-family residential development.
   B.   Those areas included in the R-1 district are intended for extremely low
density single-family residential use.
   C.   Many of these locations are environmentally sensitive and are
frequently characterized by steep or rolling hills, wooded terrain, and contain
soils with poor development potential.
   D.   Public utilities are not expected to be available in areas classified
in the R-1 zoning district.
   E.   To protect the character of the district, permitted activities are
limited to single-family residential dwellings and certain specified
agriculture, religious, and public uses. All commercial activities are
prohibited in the R-1 zoning district. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses of structures and land as hereinafter enumerated shall be
allowed in the R-1 residence and agricultural district only in accordance with
the conditions specified. The following uses constitute the only permitted uses
in the R-1 zoning district:
Agriculture uses:
Agriculture buildings and structures.
Agriculture uses, general; except as noted elsewhere.
Cultivation of field and garden crops.
Farm stands - products grown on the premises in the R-1 district.
Farms.
Cultural, recreational and entertainment uses:
Athletic fields.
Gymnasiums, school and park.
Nature preserves and sanctuaries.
Parks and playgrounds.
Swimming clubs and pools.
Educational uses:
Elementary schools.
High schools.
Junior high schools.
Kindergartens.
Residential uses:
   Garages, private residential.
   Single-family dwellings.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-6A-3: SPECIAL USES:
Special uses, as hereinafter enumerated, may be allowed in the R-1 residence
and agricultural district only in accordance with the provisions specified in
section
11-3-4 of this title. The following uses constitute the only special uses
allowed in the R-1 zoning district:
Agriculture uses:
   Roadside farm stands.
Cultural, recreational and entertainment uses:
Auditoriums, private.
Country clubs.
Golf courses.
Health, medical and care facilities:
Convalescent homes.
Daycare homes.
Nursing homes.
Planned unit developments.
Public and utility uses:
Fire stations.
Government offices.
Police stations.
Post offices.
Sewage treatment and distribution facilities.
Water treatment and distribution facilities.
Water wells, reservoirs, towers, and storage facilities.
Religious uses:
Chapels.
Churches.
Convents.
Parsonages.
Rectories.
Religious assembly halls and meeting rooms.
Synagogues.
Temples.
Residential uses:
   Institutional housing.
Retail and business uses:
   None.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-6A-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses, as hereinafter enumerated, may be allowed in the R-1 residence
and agricultural district. The following uses constitute the only temporary
uses allowed in the R-1 zoning district:
Block parties and street dances.
Contractor offices and equipment sheds when and where in service to an active
Village-approved construction project.
Home and garage sales.
Real estate sales offices and model units.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2022-O-24, 11-7-2022; Ord. 2025-
O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-6A-5: ACCESSORY USES:
Agricultural buildings and structures.
Children's playhouses.
Conservatories, private.
Garages, carports, and other parking facilities.
Gazebos and other similar structures.
Greenhouses, private.
Radio, radar, and television antenna towers and dishes.
Swimming pools and tennis courts.
Tool houses, sheds and other similar buildings.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-6A-6: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
All uses of structures and land in the R-1 residence and agricultural district
shall conform to the following site and structure provisions:
   A.   Lot And Building Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Lot Area Per Principal Building: Two hundred thousand
(200,000) square feet.
      2.   Minimum Lot Width: Three hundred feet (300').
      3.   Yards:
         a.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30').
         b.   Corner lot/side yard: Thirty feet (30').
         c.   Interior lot/side yard: Fifteen feet (15'), plus one foot (1')
for every one foot (1') in height over thirty feet (30').
         d.   Rear yard: Forty feet (40').
         e.   Minimum green area in side yard: Five feet (5').
      4.   Height Limitations:
         a.   Principal structure: Thirty five feet (35'); no limit for
agriculture.
         b.   Accessory structure: Twenty feet (20'); no limit for agriculture.
   B.   Dwelling Standards:
      1.   Minimum square footage for dwelling floor area: One thousand nine
hundred (1,900).
      2.   Maximum floor area ratio to lot area ratio, including garage and
accessory buildings: 0.035; none for agriculture. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd.
2011 Code)
11-6A-7: DISTRICT STANDARDS:
All uses of structures and land in the R-1 residence and agricultural district
are subject to the general standards, ordinances, and regulations of the
village. In addition, all uses located in the R-1 zoning district shall be
subject to the following district standards:
   A.   Exterior Lighting: All exterior lighting shall be shaded or inwardly
directed in such a manner so that no direct lighting or glare is cast upon
adjacent residential or institutional property. The intensity of such lighting
shall not exceed two (2) foot-candles as measured at the abutting property
line.
   B.   Landscaping And Screening: All uses shall conform with the applicable
requirements for landscaping and screening.
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: All uses shall conform to the
applicable requirements for off street parking and loading set forth in this
title.
   D.   Performance Standards: All uses shall conform to the performance
standards set forth in this title.
   E.   Signs: All uses shall conform to the applicable requirements for signs
set forth in this title. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
ARTICLE B. R-2 RURAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6B-1: Purpose And Description
11-6B-2: Permitted Uses
11-6B-3: Special Uses
11-6B-4: Temporary Uses
11-6B-5: Accessory Uses
11-6B-6: Site And Structure Requirements
11-6B-7: District Standards
11-6B-1: PURPOSE AND DESCRIPTION:
   A.   The R-2 rural residence district is intended to provide a quality
environment for single-family dwellings on moderately large lots.
   B.   The R-2 district is located in those portions of the village where
moderately large lot residential development presently exists and where similar
development appears likely to occur in the future.
   C.   Areas designated in the R-2 zoning district may or may not have,
depending upon their location, at least partial access to public utilities.
   D.   To protect the character of the district, permitted activities are
limited to single-family residential dwellings and certain specified
agriculture, cultural, educational, religious, and public uses. All commercial
activities are prohibited in the R-2 zoning district. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-6B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses of structures and land, as hereinafter enumerated, shall be
allowed in the R-2 rural residence district only in accordance with the
conditions specified. The following uses constitute the only permitted uses in
the R-2 zoning district:
Cultural, recreational and entertainment uses:
Athletic fields.
Gymnasiums, school and park.
Nature preserves and sanctuaries.
Parks and playgrounds.
Swimming clubs and pools.
Educational uses:
Elementary schools.
High schools.
Junior high schools.
Kindergartens.
Residential uses:
Garages, private residential.
Single-family dwellings.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-6B-3: SPECIAL USES:
Agriculture uses:
Roadside farm stands limited to produce grown on the premises.
Cultural, recreational and entertainment uses:
Auditoriums, private.
Country clubs.
Golf courses.
Planned unit developments.
Public and utility uses:
Fire stations.
Government offices.
Police stations.
Post offices.
Radio and television broadcasting facilities.
Sewage treatment and distribution facilities.
Utility substations.
Water treatment and distribution facilities.
Water wells, reservoirs, towers, and storage facilities.
Religious uses:
Chapels.
Churches.
Convents.
Parsonages.
Rectories.
Religious assembly halls and meeting rooms.
Synagogues.
Temples.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-6B-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses, as hereinafter enumerated, may be allowed in the R-2 rural
residence district. The following uses constitute the only temporary uses
allowed in the R-2 zoning district:
Block parties and street dances.
Christmas tree sales.
Contractor offices and equipment sheds when and where in service to an active
Village-approved construction project.
Home and garage sales.
Real estate offices and model units.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2022-O-24, 11-7-2022; Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-
2025)
11-6B-5: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses, as hereinafter enumerated, may be allowed in the R-2 rural
residence district. The following constitute the only accessory uses allowed in
the R-2 zoning district:
Children's playhouses.
Garages, carports, and other parking facilities.
Gazebos and other similar structures.
Greenhouses, private.
Swimming pools and tennis courts.
Tool houses, sheds and other similar buildings.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-6B-6: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
All uses of structures and land in the R-2 rural residence district shall
conform to the following site and structure provisions:
   A.   Lot And Building Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Lot Area Per Principal Building: Twelve thousand (12,000)
square feet.
      2.   Minimum Lot Width: Eighty five feet (85').
      3.   Yards:
         a.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30').
         b.   Corner lot/side yard: Thirty feet (30').
         c.   Interior lot/side yard: Twelve feet (12').
         d.   Rear yard: Thirty feet (30').
         e.   Minimum green area in side yard: Four feet (4').
      4.   Height Limitations:
         a.   Principal structure: Thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Accessory structure: Fifteen feet (15').
   B.   Dwelling Standards:
      1.   Minimum square footage for dwelling floor area: One thousand seven
hundred (1,700).
      2.   Maximum floor area ratio to lot area ratio, including garage and
accessory buildings: 0.035. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
11-6B-7: DISTRICT STANDARDS:
All uses of structures and land in the R-2 rural residence district are subject
to the general standards and regulations of this title. In addition, all uses
located in the R-2 zoning district shall be subject to the R-1 district
standards (section
11-6A-7 of this chapter). (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
ARTICLE C. R-3 AND R-4 RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-6C-1: Purpose And Description
11-6C-2: Permitted, Special, Temporary And Accessory Uses
11-6C-3: Site And Structure Requirements
11-6C-4: District Standards
11-6C-1: PURPOSE AND DESCRIPTION:
   A.   The R-3 and R-4 residence districts are intended to promote single-
family residential development in a suburban environment.
   B.   The R-3 and R-4 districts provide for the orderly expansion of existing
neighborhoods and encourage new growth in areas appropriate for urbanized,
predominantly single-family development in a more dense environment.
   C.   The R-3 and R-4 districts are concentrated in those portions of the
community which can be readily provided with public facilities and services.
   D.   To protect the character of the district, permitted activities are
limited to single-family, cultural, educational, religious, and public uses.
All commercial activities are prohibited in the R-3 and R-4 zoning districts.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-6C-2: PERMITTED, SPECIAL, TEMPORARY AND ACCESSORY USES:
Permitted, special, temporary and accessory uses of structures and land, as
specified in the R-2 district, shall be similarly applicable to the R-3 and R-
4 zoning districts. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
11-6C-3: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   R-3 District: All uses of structures and land in the R-3 residence
district shall conform to the following site and structure provisions:
      1.   Lot And Building Requirements:
         a.   Minimum Lot Area Per Principal Building: Nine thousand five
hundred (9,500) square feet.
         b.   Minimum Lot Width: Seventy five feet (75').
         c.   Yards:
            (1)   Front yard: Thirty feet (30').
            (2)   Corner lot/side yard: Twenty five feet (25').
            (3)   Interior lot/side yard: Ten feet (10').
            (4)   Rear yard: Twenty five feet (25').
            (5)   Minimum green area in side yard: Three feet (3').
         d.   Height Limitations:
            (1)   Principal structure: Thirty five feet (35').
            (2)   Accessory structure: Fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Dwelling Standards:
         a.   Minimum square footage for dwelling floor area: One thousand five
hundred (1,500).
         b.   Maximum floor area ratio to lot area ratio, including garage and
accessory buildings: 0.035.
   B.   R-4 District: All uses of structures and land in the R-4 residence
district shall conform to the following site and structure provisions:
      1.   Lot And Building Requirements:
         a.   Minimum Lot Area Per Principal Building: Eight thousand five
hundred (8,500) square feet.
         b.   Minimum Lot Width: Sixty five feet (65').
         c.   Yards:
            (1)   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25').
            (2)   Corner lot/side yard: Twenty five feet (25').
            (3)   Interior lot/side yard: Eight feet (8').
            (4)   Rear yard: Twenty five feet (25').
            (5)   Minimum green area in side yard: Three feet (3').
         d.   Height Limitations:
            (1)   Principal structure: Thirty five feet (35').
            (2)   Accessory structure: Fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Dwelling Standards:
         a.   Minimum square footage for dwelling floor area: One thousand
three hundred (1,300).
         b.   Maximum floor area ratio to lot area ratio, including garage and
accessory buildings: 0.035. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
11-6C-4: DISTRICT STANDARDS:
All uses of structures and land in the R-3 and R-4 residence districts are
subject to the general standards and regulations applicable to the R-1 district
(section
11-6A-7 of this chapter). (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
ARTICLE D. R-5 ATTACHED AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6D-1: Purpose And Description
11-6D-2: Permitted, Special, Temporary And Accessory Uses
11-6D-3: Site And Structure Requirements
11-6D-4: District Standards
11-6D-1: PURPOSE AND DESCRIPTION:
   A.   The R-5 attached and multiple-family residence district is intended to
promote residential development in a suburban environment.
   B.   The R-5 district provides for the orderly expansion of existing
neighborhoods and encourages new growth in areas appropriate for multi-family
development.
   C.   The R-5 district is concentrated in those portions of the community
which can be more readily provided with public facilities and services.
   D.   To protect the character of the district, permitted activities are
limited to residential uses. All commercial activities are prohibited in the R-
5 zoning district. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-6D-2: PERMITTED, SPECIAL, TEMPORARY AND ACCESSORY USES:
   Permitted, special, temporary and accessory uses of structures and land in
the R-5 district are as follows:
   A.   Permitted uses:
   Apartments.
   Condominiums.
   Multiple-family dwellings.
   Parks and recreational areas when publicly owned and operated.
   Single-family attached residence dwellings.
   B.   Special uses:
   Cemeteries.
   Churches and other places of worship.
   Dormitories.
   Golf courses.
   Institutions for the aged, managed care facilities.
   Medical and dental offices and group medical centers.
   Parking lots.
   Planned unit developments.
   Public facilities such as libraries and museums or those required to service
the district.
   Schools, including playgrounds and athletic fields auxiliary thereto.
   C.   Temporary uses:
   Home and garage sales.
   Model sales units.
   Similar and compatible uses as determined by the village board.
   D.   Accessory uses:
   Parking facilities.
   Swimming pools.
   Tennis courts.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-6D-3: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
All uses of structures and land in the R-5 zoning district shall conform to the
following site and structure provisions:
   A.   Lot And Building Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Lot Area Per Principal Building: Every attached and multiple
family dwelling hereinafter erected shall be located on a lot having the
following minimum area requirements:
         a.   Two-family dwellings: Five thousand (5,000) square feet per unit.
         b.   Multi-family dwellings: Four thousand (4,000) square feet per
dwelling unit.
         c.   Lot coverage: Not more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of
the lot may be covered by a building and structure including accessory
buildings.
      2.   Yards:
         a.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30'), plus one foot (1') for each foot
in height greater than thirty feet (30').
         b.   Corner lot/side yard: Twenty five feet (25').
         c.   Interior lot/side yard: Eight feet (8'), plus one foot (1') for
each foot in height greater than thirty feet (30').
         d.   Rear yard: Thirty feet (30').
         e.   Minimum green area in side yard: Three feet (3').
      3.   Height Limitations:
         a.   Principal structure: Thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Accessory structure: Twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004;
amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Dwelling Standards:
      1.   One- and two-story attached dwelling structures shall have a total
floor area of not less than eight hundred (800) square feet per floor for each
dwelling unit measured from the outside walls including utility rooms but
excluding all other areas not used for living, eating or sleeping purposes.
      2.   Multiple-family dwelling structures shall have a total floor area of
not less than seven hundred (700) square feet for each dwelling unit measured
from the outside walls including utility rooms but excluding all other areas
not used for living, eating or sleeping purposes. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-6D-4: DISTRICT STANDARDS:
All uses of structures and land in the R-5 zoning district are subject to the
general standards and regulations applicable to the R-1 district (section
11-6A-7 of this chapter). (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
ARTICLE E. SR SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6E-1: Purpose And Description
11-6E-2: Permitted Uses
11-6E-3: Special Uses
11-6E-4: Temporary Uses
11-6E-5: Accessory Uses
11-6E-6: Site And Structure Requirements
11-6E-7: District Standards
11-6E-1: PURPOSE AND DESCRIPTION:
   A.   The SR single-family residence district is intended to provide a
quality environment for single-family dwellings on large lots.
   B.   The SR district is located in those portions of the village where
moderately large lot residential development presently exists and where similar
development appears likely to occur in the future.
   C.   Areas designated in the SR zoning district may or may not have,
depending upon their location, at least partial access to public utilities.
   D.   To protect the character of the district, permitted activities are
limited to single-family residential dwellings and certain specified other
uses. All commercial activities are prohibited in the SR zoning district except
for agricultural uses. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-6E-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses of structures and land, as hereinafter enumerated, shall be
allowed in the SR district only in accordance with the conditions specified.
The following uses constitute the only permitted uses in the SR zoning
district:
Cultural, recreational and entertainment uses:
Athletic fields.
Gymnasiums, school and park.
Nature preserves and sanctuaries.
Parks and playgrounds.
Swimming clubs and pools.
Educational uses:
Elementary schools.
High schools.
Junior high schools.
Kindergartens.
Residential uses:
Garages, private residential.
Single-family dwellings.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-6E-3: SPECIAL USES:
The special uses specified in the R-1 district (section
11-6A-3 of this chapter) shall likewise apply to the SR district. (Ord. 2004-
02, 2-2-2004)
11-6E-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses as enumerated in the R-1 district (section
11-6A-4 of this chapter) may be allowed in the SR district. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-
2004)
11-6E-5: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses as enumerated in the R-1 district (section
11-6A-5 of this chapter) may be allowed in the SR district. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-
2004)
11-6E-6: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
All uses of structures and land in the SR district shall conform to the
following site and structure provisions:
   A.   Lot And Building Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Lot Area Per Principal Building: Fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet.
      2.   Minimum Lot Width: Ninety five feet (95').
      3.   Yards:
         a.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30').
         b.   Corner lot/side yard: Thirty feet (30').
         c.   Interior lot/side yard: Fifteen feet (15').
         d.   Rear yard: Forty feet (40').
         e.   Minimum green area in side yard: Five feet (5').
      4.   Height Limitations:
         a.   Principal structure: Thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Accessory structure: Fifteen feet (15').
   B.   Dwelling Standards:
      1.   Minimum square footage for dwelling floor area: One thousand nine
hundred (1,900).
      2.   Maximum floor area ratio to lot area ratio, including garage and
accessory buildings: 0.035. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
11-6E-7: DISTRICT STANDARDS:
All uses of structures and land in the SR district are subject to the general
standards and regulations of this title. In addition, all uses located in the
SR zoning district shall be subject to the R-1 district standards (section
11-6A-7 of this chapter). (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
ARTICLE F. HD HERITAGE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6F-1: Purpose And Description
11-6F-2: Permitted Uses
11-6F-3: Temporary Uses
11-6F-4: Accessory Uses
11-6F-5: Site And Structure Requirements
11-6F-6: District Standards
11-6F-1: PURPOSE AND DESCRIPTION:
The HD heritage district is intended to provide continuity for areas of the
village existing as of January 1, 2004. To protect the character of the
district, permitted activities are limited to single-family residential
dwellings and those uses existing as of January 1, 2004. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-
2004; amd. 2011 Code)
11-6F-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses of structures and land existing as of January 1, 2004, shall
continue and shall be henceforth considered and governed as legal nonconforming
uses. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-6F-3: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses, as hereinafter enumerated, may be allowed in the HD heritage
district. The following uses constitute the only temporary uses allowed in the
HD heritage district:
Block parties and street dances.
Christmas tree sales.
Contractor offices and equipment sheds when and where in service to an active
Village-approved construction project.
Home and garage sales.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2022-O-24, 11-7-2022; Ord. 2025-
O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-6F-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses, as hereinafter enumerated, may be allowed in the HD heritage
district. The following constitute the only accessory uses allowed in the HD
heritage district:
Children's playhouses.
Garages, carports, and other parking facilities.
Gazebos and other similar structures.
Greenhouses, private.
Horses, subject to the following standards and conditions:
   A.   The property upon which horses are kept or maintained shall be no less
than five (5) contiguous acres.
   B.   The subject property shall be under single ownership.
   C.   Up to two (2) horses shall be allowed on a qualifying five (5) acre
property, plus one more horse for each additional acre of property to a maximum
of five (5) horses.
   D.   Each horse shall be owned by the property owner. No animal shall be
boarded for hire or used for the giving of lessons in horsemanship.
   E.   The keeping and maintenance of the property and these animals shall not
be allowed to become a nuisance to other proximate residents and the village,
generally. Due care shall be required to prevent odor and noise from emanating
from the subject property.
   F.   All such animals shall be restrained or fenced.
Swimming pools and tennis courts.
Tool houses, sheds and other similar buildings.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2005-37, 12-5-2005; 2011 Code; Ord. 2025-O-
02, 3-17-2025)
11-6F-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
All uses of structures and land in the HD district shall conform to the
following site and structure provisions:
   A.   Lot And Building Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Lot Area Per Principal Building: n/a.
      2.   Minimum Lot Width: n/a.
      3.   Yards:
         a.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25').
         b.   Corner lot/side yard: Twenty five feet (25').
         c.   Interior lot/side yard: Eight feet (8').
         d.   Rear yard: n/a.
         e.   Minimum green area in side yard: Two feet (2').
      4.   Height Limitations:
         a.   Principal structure: Forty five feet (45').
         b.   Accessory structure: Twenty feet (20').
   B.   Dwelling Standards:
      1.   Minimum square footage for dwelling floor area: n/a.
      2.   Maximum floor area ratio to lot area ratio, including garage and
accessory buildings: n/a. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
11-6F-6: DISTRICT STANDARDS:
All uses of structures and land in the HD district are subject to the general
standards and regulations of this title. In addition, all uses located in the
HD district shall be subject to the R-1 district standards (section
11-6A-7 of this chapter). (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
CHAPTER 7
C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7-1: Purpose And Description
11-7-2: Permitted Uses
11-7-3: Special Uses
11-7-4: Temporary Uses
11-7-5: Accessory Uses
11-7-6: Site And Structure Requirements
11-7-7: District Standards
11-7-1: PURPOSE AND DESCRIPTION:
   A.   The C-1 general commercial district is intended to provide a suitable
setting for the commingling of a variety of retail shopping, commercial
service, and small office uses capable of fulfilling most of the daily living
requirements of village residents.
   B.   The regulations of the district are designed to accommodate retail and
service commercial uses in a manner which will minimize interference with area
traffic patterns and ensure a high standard of site layout, design, and
landscaping.
   C.   The C-1 district is intended to be located only along or at the
convergence of major arterial roadways where it can be sufficiently buffered
from adjacent residential development.
   D.   A reference to "C-1 PUD" herein or on the Village's Zoning Map shall
signify a parcel with an underlying C-1 General Commercial District zoning
classification but which must be developed or redeveloped, as the case may be,
as a planned unit development in accordance with the requirements set forth in
Chapter 9, Planned Unit Developments, of Title 11, Zoning Regulations,
including but not limited to obtaining the approval of the Village of a Final
Detailed Plan as set forth in Section
11-9-5C1.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-O-22, 9-15-2025)
11-7-2: PERMITTED USES:
The only permitted uses of structures and land allowed in the C-1 general
commercial district, as hereinafter enumerated, must be in accordance with the
conditions specified below and as set forth herein. Each such use is contingent
upon the Village's approval of a Final Detailed Plan as set forth in Section
11-9-5C1, as well as Final Systems Plans, Construction Plan, Construction
Schedule Guarantee, Covenants and Provisions for Public Facilities, as set
forth in Section
11-9-5C, for such use of a structure and land, and such use satisfying the
terms, provisions and requirements for a planned unit development in Chapter 9,
Planned Unit Development, of Title 11, Zoning Regulations:
Agriculture uses.
Cultural, recreational and entertainment uses (but no smoke shop/vape shop
which is prohibited and is not a permitted or special use permitted in the
Village).
Educational uses.
Health, medical and care facilities.
Office and professional uses.
Public and utility uses.
Religious uses.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025; Ord. 2025-O-22, 9-15-
2025)
11-7-3: SPECIAL USES:
The only special uses allowed in the C-1 general commercial district, as
hereinafter enumerated, must be in accordance with all other provisions of this
code and as set forth herein. Each such special use is contingent upon the
Village's approval of a Final Detailed Plan as set forth in Section
11-9-5C1, as well as Final Systems Plans, Construction Plan, Construction
Schedule Guarantee, Covenants and Provisions for Public Facilities, as set
forth in Section
11-9-5C, with each special use also being subject to satisfying the terms,
provisions and requirements for a planned unit development in Chapter 9,
Planned Unit Development, of Title 11, Zoning Regulations:
Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization (not no smoke shop/vape shop).
Adult-use cannabis infuser organization.
Adult-use cannabis processing organization.
Adult-use cannabis transporting organization.
Cultural, recreational and entertainment uses:
   Amusement establishments.
   Amusement parks.
   Auditoriums, private.
   Country clubs.
   Miniature golf courses.
   Stables and riding academies.
Educational uses:
   Colleges and universities.
Health, medical and care facilities:
   Daycare centers.
   Nursery schools.
   Pharmacies.
Planned unit developments.
Religious uses:
   Chapels.
   Churches.
   Religious assembly halls and meeting rooms.
   Synagogues.
   Temples.
Retail business uses:
   Agriculture implement sales and service.
   Automobile, motorcycle and truck sales and service.
   Boat sales and service.
   Building materials and garden supply stores.
   Motor vehicle sales and service.
   Tire, battery and accessory sales and service.
Service uses:
   Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics.
   Animal pounds and shelters.
   Automobile repair and service.
   Automobile service stations.
   Banquet halls.
   Bars and taverns.
   Car wash facilities.
   Equipment rental and leasing.
   Hotels.
   Motels.
   Motor vehicle rental agencies.
   Parcel pick up and delivery services.
   Restaurants.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2019-O-51, 12-2- 2019; Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-
2025; Ord. 2025-O-22, 9-15-2025)
11-7-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses (limited to less than 12 consecutive months), hereinafter
enumerated, may be allowed in the C-1 general commercial district. The
following uses constitute the only temporary uses allowed in the C-1 zoning
district:
Block parties and street dances.
Carnivals and circuses.
Christmas tree sales.
Contractor offices and equipment sheds.
Real estate sales, offices and model units.
Temporary outdoor sales.
Tent theaters and meetings.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-7-5: ACCESSORY USES:
The only accessory uses or structures which are allowed in the C-1 general
commercial district, as hereinafter enumerated, shall be contingent upon the
Village's approval of a Final Detailed Plan as set forth in section
11-9-5C1 depicting such accessory use or structure, and if any such accessory
use or structure is being requested for a parcel for which a Final Detailed
Plan has been approved, such accessory use or structure must be approved by the
Village as a change to the existing Final Detailed Plan as set forth in Section
11-9-6, Changes, of Title 11, Zoning Regulations:
Agricultural buildings and structures.
Garages, carports and other parking facilities.
Radio, radar and television antenna towers and dishes.
Refuse disposal areas.
Tool houses, sheds and other similar buildings.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025; Ord. 2025-O-22, 9-15-
2025)
11-7-6: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
All uses of structures and land in the C-1 general commercial district shall
conform to the following site and structure provisions and each such use shall
be contingent upon the Village's approval of a Final Detailed Plan for such
use, as set forth in Section
11-9-5C1, as well as Final System Plans, Construction Plan, Construction
Schedule Guarantee, Covenants and Provisions for Public Facilities as set forth
in Section
11-9-5C and subject to the terms, provisions and requirements for a planned
unit development in Chapter 9, Planned Unit Development, of Title 11, Zoning
Regulations:
   A.   Minimum Area:
      1.   District: The minimum area that may constitute a separate or
detached part of the C-1 zoning district shall not be less than four (4) acres.
However, land zoned in the I-1 zoning district which immediately abuts land in
the C-1 district may be included in the calculations in meeting the minimum
district area.
      2.   Lot: No minimum lot area shall be required.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: Each zoning lot shall be a minimum of one hundred
feet (100') in width.
   C.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The maximum lot coverage of all principal and
accessory buildings located on a zoning lot shall not exceed thirty five
percent (35%) of the total area of the lot.
   D.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR): The maximum floor area ratio of all
principal and accessory buildings located on a zoning lot shall not exceed
forty percent (40%) of the total area of the lot.
   E.   Maximum Building Height: No principal building shall exceed thirty five
feet (35') in height except for agricultural buildings and structures which
shall not exceed sixty feet (60') in height and church steeples and towers
which shall not exceed seventy five feet (75') in height.
   F.   Minimum Yard Requirements: The following minimum yards shall be
provided and maintained:
      1.   Front And Corner Side Yards:
         a.   Buildings: All buildings shall be set back from the front lot
line or a side lot line abutting a dedicated street a minimum of fifteen feet
(15').
         b.   Parking: All off street parking and loading areas shall be set
back from the front lot line or a side lot line abutting a dedicated street a
minimum of ten feet (10').
      2.   Interior Side Yards:
         a.   Buildings: All buildings shall be set back from each interior
side yard a minimum of ten feet (10').
         b.   Parking: All off street parking and loading areas shall be set
back from each interior lot line a minimum of five feet (5'). However, where an
interior side lot line abuts a residence zoning district, all off street
parking and loading areas shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from
the abutting interior lot line.
      3.   Rear Yard:
         a.   Buildings: All buildings shall be set back from the rear lot line
a minimum of fifteen feet (15').
         b.   Parking: All off street parking and loading areas shall be set
back from the rear lot line a minimum of five feet (5'). However, where a rear
lot line abuts a residence zoning district, all off street parking and loading
areas shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from the abutting lot line.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2025-O-22, 9-15-2025)
11-7-7: DISTRICT STANDARDS:
All uses of structures and land in the C-1 district are subject to the general
standards and regulations of this title. In addition, all uses located in the
C-1 district shall be subject to the following:
   A.   Site Plan Review: To ensure compliance with the applicable provisions
of this title, any exterior construction, change in use, or increase in the
intensity of an existing use, excluding normal maintenance activity, in the C-
1 zoning district shall require site plan review by the village board.
   B.   Preliminary Development Plan Review: Prior to the commencement of
construction activity, the village board shall approve a preliminary
development plan for all areas located in the C-1 district. Such preliminary
plan shall at a minimum include the following:
      1.   The anticipated location of all uses to be included in the proposed
development;
      2.   The anticipated gross floor area of all buildings to be included in
the proposed development;
      3.   The maximum building heights, perimeter setbacks, percent of open
space and landscape treatment of the proposed development;
      4.   The impact of the development on the surrounding traffic network and
proposed improvements to that network; and
      5.   A conceptual engineering plan indicating the anticipated location of
all wells, septic fields or sewage treatment facilities and detention/retention
facilities to be included in the proposed development.
   C.   Operation Within Enclosed Structure: All business, service, storage,
and display of goods shall be conducted within completely enclosed structures,
except:
Accessory uses, when allowed.
Agricultural uses.
Automobile service stations.
Motor vehicle rentals.
Motor vehicle sales.
Off street parking and loading.
Outdoor seating areas accessory to bars, restaurants and taverns.
Refuse disposal areas.
Sale or display of merchandise sold or offered for sale through vending
machines, provided such machines do not occupy an aggregate ground area of more
than sixteen (16) square feet.
Temporary uses, when allowed.
   D.   Exterior Lighting: All exterior lighting shall be shaded or inwardly
directed in such a manner so that no direct lighting or glare is cast upon any
adjacent residential or institutional property. The intensity of such lighting
shall not exceed two (2) foot-candles as measured at the abutting property
line.
   E.   Landscaping And Screening:
      1.   Landscaping:
         a.   All developments in the C-1 district shall be designed consistent
with the landscaping code of the village.
         b.   Plantings shall be required for all landscaped areas within lots,
including utility and drainage easements and setbacks.
         c.   Wherever possible, existing vegetation, such as mature trees,
hedgerows and wetland plantings, shall be preserved and incorporated into the
landscape design.
      2.   Screening:
         a.   Trash enclosures, utility boxes, meters, pedestals, and loading
service areas must be screened from adjacent properties, public rights of way,
parking areas and pedestrian walkways. Screening shall consist of a solid wall
or fence, or landscape material, equal in height or taller than the material
being screened.
         b.   Refuse or trash collection areas shall be provided at the rear of
each structure or positioned in or near the common parking lot or a driveway,
as recommended by the commission, and shall be completely screened from view on
all sides, with solid fencing of masonry construction, to a height of seven
feet (7'); and shall include concrete pad and a solid operable door of adequate
width. Each refuse area shall be provided with a closed and covered trash
container of a type and size pursuant to village ordinances. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner and/or manager of the property to ensure the refuse
areas are kept in a neat and well ordered manner at all times. The owner and/or
manager of the structure shall ensure that any spillover at the time of refuse
removal is promptly and properly cleaned up, and that refuse is removed on a
regular basis pursuant to village ordinances.
         c.   Overnight truck and semitrailer outdoor parking and storage is
prohibited. Overnight truck and semitractor trailer parking and storage shall
be permitted within an enclosed loading dock, garage or within a walled and
gated sight screen enclosure. Said enclosure shall be open to the sky and
constructed of the same masonry exterior materials as the principal building
and of a height equal to the height of the first floor of the principal
building. Temporary overnight parking, not to exceed forty eight (48) hours,
may be permitted for delivery vehicles which arrive after normal business
hours.
         d.   The outdoor storage of any materials is prohibited. (Ord. 2004-
02, 2-2-2004)
   F.   Architectural Standards: Construction of all commercial buildings
within a business district shall be constructed pursuant to the following
architectural standards:
      1.   The building shall be compatible to surrounding buildings to
maintain the character of the area. Visual interest and pedestrian scale shall
be considered in the site layout. The rear and sides of a building shall have
architectural features similar in quality and design to the front of the
building.
      2.   The building shall be face brick on all elevations, provided they
are visible to public areas. Other masonry materials may be considered if the
building area is over seventy five thousand (75,000) square feet. Accent
features may be other materials; however, the amount of EIFS, dryvit, and
standing seam metal shall be limited. Architectural shingles, synthetic slate
or slate shall be used on roofs.
      3.   Architectural features shall break up the building massing. The use
of columns, brick patterns, windows, false windows, medallions, cornices,
pilasters, quoins, decorative lighting, and protrusions must provide interest
in the building elevations. The roofline must also be varied. A full pitch roof
is preferred; however, other roof types will be considered. All mechanical
equipment shall be screened from view on all sides of the building through the
use of parapet walls or appropriate screening.
      4.   The building color shall blend into surrounding buildings and the
natural environment. The predominant color for most buildings shall be
relatively subtle; the natural brick or stone colors of red, gray and brown
shall predominate. Darker or brighter accent colors may be used, provided they
are not garish or overpowering. Brick, stone, and glass and the surfaces shall
not be painted. All service doors shall be painted to match the building.
Window glazing shall be clear or slightly tinted, not dark or reflective.
Building color schemes approved by the village board shall not be altered
without prior approval from the village board.
      5.   Awnings and canopies shall be in character with the architectural
style of the building. Awnings and canopies shall be positioned at least eight
feet (8') above the sidewalk 1 . Awnings shall fit within the frame of the
storefront; they shall not hide the building facade, distort its proportions,
or cover architectural features. Where several storefronts are developed as a
single building, they shall have awnings of the same style and similar color.
Adjacent buildings developed at different times shall have awnings of a
compatible style and color scheme. Awnings shall be made of canvas or a durable
fabric material that can be easily cleaned. Awning frames shall be an accessory
to the building facade and not a permanent feature.
      6.   Street furniture (benches, trash receptacles, lighting, walkways,
etc.) shall be considered when designing commercial centers and shall be
required in certain developments. Bicycle racks shall be required for
developments adjacent to bike paths. Bicycle racks shall be located near the
entrances of buildings, convenient for riders to use.
   G.   Signs: All uses shall conform to the applicable sign requirements set
forth in this code. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1C-5 of this code.
CHAPTER 8
I-1 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8-1: Purpose And Description
11-8-2: Permitted Uses
11-8-3: Special Uses
11-8-4: Temporary Uses
11-8-5: Accessory Uses
11-8-6: Site And Structure Requirements
11-8-7: District Standards
11-8-1: PURPOSE AND DESCRIPTION:
   A.   The I-1 general industrial district is intended to provide
opportunities within certain specified areas of the village for a range of
manufacturing, wholesaling, warehousing, and administrative uses.
   B.   The regulations of the I-1 district are designed to permit the
operation of most industrial and ancillary uses in a clean and quiet manner
while simultaneously providing adequate protection for uses allowed in adjacent
zoning districts.
   C.   Typically, the I-1 district is situated only in those locations which
have direct access to an existing or proposed arterial roadway, offer potential
rail connection, and are compatible with adjacent land uses. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-
2-2004)
11-8-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses of structures and land, as hereinafter enumerated, shall be
allowed in the I-1 general industrial district only in accordance with the
conditions specified. The following uses constitute the only permitted uses in
the I-1 zoning district:
Agriculture uses.
Air conditioning sales and service.
Cultural, recreational, and entertainment uses.
Educational uses.
Health, medical, and care facilities.
Industrial and manufacturing uses.
Office and professional uses.
Public and utility uses.
Retail business uses.
Service uses.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-8-3: SPECIAL USES:
Special uses, as hereinafter enumerated, may be allowed in the I-1 general
industrial district. The following uses constitute the only special uses
allowed in the I-1 zoning district:
Adult-use cannabis craft grower organization.
Adult-use cannabis cultivation organization.
Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization.
Adult-use cannabis infuser organization.
Adult-use cannabis processing organization.
Adult-use cannabis transporting organization.
Agriculture uses.
Cultural, recreational and entertainment uses:
Adult uses.
Amusement parks.
Auditoriums, private.
Gymnasiums, school and park.
Health clubs.
Ice skating rinks, indoor.
Massage parlors.
Mobile home parks.
Racetracks.
Stables and riding academies.
Swimming clubs and pools.
Tennis, racquetball, handball and other private recreational clubs.
Health, medical and care facilities:
Daycare centers.
Nursery schools.
Industrial and manufacturing uses:
Facilities for manufacturing, processing, assembly, and packaging of:
Chemicals and allied products.
Petroleum refining and related industries.
Motor freight terminals.
Motor vehicle wrecking and salvage yards.
Plants for asphalt, cement, concrete, and similar products.
Recycling centers.
Planned unit developments.
Public and utility uses:
Airports.
Railroad yards and switching facilities.
Service uses:
Automobile service stations.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2019-O-51, 12-2-2019; Ord. 2025-
O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-8-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses, as hereinafter enumerated, may be allowed in the I-1 general
industrial district. The following uses constitute the only temporary uses
allowed in the I-1 zoning district:
Carnivals and circuses.
Christmas tree sales.
Contractor offices and equipment sheds.
Real estate sales offices and model units.
Tent theaters and tent meetings.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-8-5: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses, as hereinafter enumerated, may be allowed in the I-1 general
industrial district. The following constitute the only accessory uses allowed
in the I-1 zoning district:
Agricultural buildings and structures.
Commercial motor vehicles, provided each vehicle is operable.
Garages, carports, and other parking facilities.
Refuse disposal areas.
Tool houses, sheds, and other similar buildings.
Vending machines.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-O-02, 3-17-2025)
11-8-6: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
All uses of structures and land in the I-1 general industrial district shall
conform to the following site and structure provisions: (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-
2004)
   A.   Minimum Area:
      1.   District: The minimum area that may constitute a separate or
detached part of the I-1 zoning district shall not be less than four (4) acres.
However, land zoned in the C-1 zoning district which immediately abuts land in
the I-1 district may be included in the calculations in meeting the minimum
district area. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   Lot: No minimum lot area shall be required.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: Each zoning lot shall be a minimum of one hundred
feet (100') in width.
   C.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The maximum lot coverage of all principal and
accessory buildings located on a zoning lot shall not exceed forty five percent
(45%) of the total area of the lot.
   D.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio: The maximum floor area ratio of all principal
and accessory buildings located on a zoning lot shall not exceed sixty percent
(60%) of the total area of the lot.
   E.   Maximum Building Height: No principal building shall exceed forty five
feet (45') in height except for agricultural buildings and structures which
shall not exceed sixty feet (60') in height.
   F.   Minimum Yard Requirements: The following minimum yards shall be
provided and maintained:
      1.   Front And Corner Side Yards:
         a.   Buildings: All buildings shall be set back from the front lot
line or a side lot line abutting a dedicated street a minimum of thirty feet
(30'), plus one additional foot for every one foot (1') increase in building
height over sixteen feet (16') in building height.
         b.   Parking: All off street parking areas shall be set back from the
front lot line or a side lot line abutting a dedicated street a minimum of
twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Interior Side Yards:
         a.   Buildings: All buildings shall be set back from each interior
side yard a minimum of fifteen feet (15').
         b.   Parking: No interior side yard setback shall be required for off
street parking and loading areas. However, where an interior side lot line
abuts a residence zoning district, all off street parking and loading areas
shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from the abutting interior lot
line.
      3.   Rear Yard:
         a.   Buildings: All buildings shall be set back from the rear lot line
a minimum of fifteen feet (15').
         b.   Parking: No rear yard setback shall be required for off street
parking and loading areas. However, where a rear lot line abuts a residence
zoning district, all off street parking and loading areas shall be set back ten
feet (10') from the abutting rear lot line. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-8-7: DISTRICT STANDARDS:
   A.   Generally: All uses of structures and land in the I-1 general
industrial district are subject to the general standards and regulations of
this title and this code as well as section
11-7-7 of this title.
   B.   Site Plan Review: To ensure compliance with the applicable requirements
of this title, any exterior construction, change in use, or increase in the
intensity of an existing use, excluding normal maintenance activity, in the I-
1 zoning district shall require site plan review and approval by the village
board. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
11-9-1: Purpose
11-9-2: Objectives
11-9-3: Standards
11-9-4: Procedures
11-9-5: Submission Requirements
11-9-6: Changes
11-9-7: Revocation And Extension
11-9-8: Findings Of Fact
11-9-9: Conditions And Guarantees
11-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of planned unit development regulations is to encourage and allow
more creative and imaginative design of land developments than is possible
under district zoning regulations. Planned unit development are intended to
allow substantial flexibility in planning and designing a proposal. This
flexibility often occurs in the form of relief from compliance with
conventional zoning ordinance site design requirements. Ideally, this
flexibility results in a development that is better planned, that contains more
amenities, and ultimately a development that is more desirable to live in than
one produced in accordance with the typical zoning regulations and subdivision
controls. An intrinsic, and often neglected, premise upon which the approval of
a planned unit development (PUD) must be conditioned, is that while greater
density or more lenient siting requirements may be granted, the planned unit
development should contain features not normally required of traditional
developments. Inherent to realizing these objectives is continuous and in depth
scrutiny of the proposed planned unit development being adhered to. Hence, to
enable thorough analysis of a planned unit development, more information is
demanded about the proposal than would be required if development were being
pursued under conventional zoning requirements. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-9-2: OBJECTIVES:
Through proper planning and design, each planned unit development should
include features which further, and are in compliance with, the following
objectives:
   A.   To allow for the design of developments that are architecturally and
environmentally innovative and that achieve better utilization of land than is
possible through strict application of standard zoning and subdivision
controls.
   B.   To encourage land development that, to the greatest extent possible,
preserves natural vegetation, respects natural topographic and geologic
conditions, and refrains from adversely affective flooding, soil, drainage and
other natural ecologic conditions.
   C.   To combine and coordinate architectural styles, building forms, and
structural/visual relationships within an environment that allows mixing of
different land uses in an innovative and functionally efficient manner.
   D.   To provide for abundant, accessible, and properly located public open
and recreation space, private open and recreation space, schools, and other
public and private facilities.
   E.   To promote the efficient use of land resulting in networks of
utilities, streets and other infrastructure features that maximize the
allocation of fiscal and natural resources.
   F.   To enable land developments to be completely compatible and congruous
with adjacent and nearby land developments.
   G.   To ensure that development occurs at proper locations, away from
environmentally sensitive areas, and on land physically suited to construction.
   H.   To allow unique and unusual land uses to be planned for and located in
a manner that ensures harmony with the surrounding community.
   I.   To create a method for the permanent preservation of historic buildings
and/or landmarks. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-9-3: STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards To Be Met: The planned unit development must meet the
following standards:
      1.   Comprehensive Plan: A planned unit development must conform with the
objectives of the comprehensive plan of the village.
      2.   Ownership Of Site: The site of the planned unit development must be
under single ownership and/or unified control.
      3.   Compatibility: The uses permitted in a planned unit development must
be of a type and so located as to exercise no undue detrimental influence upon
surrounding properties. In addition, the planned unit development shall not
endanger the public health, welfare, or safety, nor shall it substantially
diminish or impair property values in the neighborhood in which it is to be
located.
      4.   Need: The planned unit development must be of a character and
contain such uses that are needed in the area of the proposed project.
      5.   Density: The net density of a planned unit development (either in
dwelling units for residential uses, or in floor area for all other uses) shall
generally correspond to the net density regulations imposed by the underlying
zoning district. The net density of the planned unit development is not
necessarily required to precisely correspond with the normal net density of the
underlying zoning district, but instead, should reflect that district's
character through complementary building types and architectural design. It is
required that a zoning amendment request accompany the planned unit development
application if the net density of the proposed development substantially
exceeds the net density permitted in the underlying zoning district.
      6.   Space Between Buildings: The minimum horizontal distance between the
buildings shall be:
         a.   Fifteen feet (15') between clustered or "zero lot line" single-
family detached buildings.
         b.   Twenty feet (20') between single-family detached dwellings.
         c.   Thirty feet (30') between buildings, other than single- family
detached dwellings, of one or two and one-half (21/2) stories in elevation.
d. Equal to the height of the taller building in the case of freestanding
buildings greater than two and one-half (21/2) stories in elevation. (Ord.
2004-02, 2-2-2004)
      7.   Yards: The required yards along the periphery of the planned unit
development shall be at least equal in width or depth to the underlying zoning
district. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
      8.   Height: Buildings of more than twenty four feet (24') in height
shall provide a setback from any property line of not less than equal to the
height of such buildings. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
      9.   Design: In circumstances where the village, in reviewing a
particular preliminary planned unit development plat, may, upon ample evidence
of exceptional design or construction features, which are deemed both
architecturally and environmentally superior, include the provision of an
inordinate amount of amenities, are in strict compliance with village building,
fire, health, and other applicable codes, and/or contribute to the increased
health, safety, and welfare of existing and future residents of the village,
and lower the required yards along the periphery of the planned unit
development from the standard required in the adjacent zoning district to the
extent deemed appropriate in direct relationship to the exceptional
architecturally and environmental superior design and construction features.
(Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
      10.   Parking Requirements: Adequate parking shall be provided and shall
be in general conformance with the parking regulations provided in other
sections of this title unless changes are warranted by the particular
characteristics of the proposed planned unit development. Additional parking
space for guests, customers, the handicapped, recreational vehicles, and other
common storage and/or parking uses in planned unit developments may be required
by the village if warranted by the particular characteristics of the proposed
planned unit development.
      11.   Traffic: Adequate provision shall be made to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize both internal and external traffic hazards
and congestion.
      12.   Compliance With Subdivision Regulations: The provisions of the
subdivision regulations, as amended, shall be adhered to, unless a waiver is
granted by the village board.
      13.   Performance Standards: The performance standards for the underlying
zoning district of the planned unit development shall, in all instances, be
complied with.
   B.   Possible Departure From Standards: The planned unit development may
depart from strict conformance with the required density, dimension, area,
height, bulk, use and specific content regulations of this title to the extent
specified in the preliminary plat and documents authorizing the planned unit
development so long as the planned unit development provides tangible benefits
to the neighborhood or community in which it is located. These benefits shall
be in the form of provisions of exceptional amenities, design excellence, etc.
The waiver of any requirement shall be the direct cause of accrual of positive
benefits to the residents of the development as well as to the general
community (e.g., waiver of yard requirements might result in more usable open
space). Departure from any requirement specified in this title or other village
ordinances and regulations is a privilege and shall be granted only upon
recommendation and approval by the village. The village reserves the right and
privilege to impose additional or other performance standards made reasonable
or necessary by the proposed development. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-9-4: PROCEDURES:
The unique character of planned unit developments requires their administrative
processing as a special use in this title. Planned unit developments may be
processed as special uses in each district of this title. Planned unit
developments are more complex and of a significantly different character than
other special uses, therefore requiring the establishment herein of specific
procedures different than those used to process other special uses. The
procedure, standards, objectives and purpose set forth in this chapter, when in
conflict with other provisions of this title, as they may pertain to planned
unit developments, and only planned unit developments, shall be superseding. A
multiple step procedure is prescribed for planned unit developments of which
the second step is optional as determined by the village. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-
2004)
   A.   Step 1, Preapplication Procedure:
      1.   Intent: The intent of the preapplication process is to obtain a
general awareness of the village's adopted planning rationale, the
compatibility of the proposed planned unit development with existing and
anticipated land uses in the vicinity, and a familiarity with the village
planned unit development procedures. This procedure allows the developer to
determine the suitability of a proposed planned unit development. (Ord. 2004-
02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   Preapplication Conference:
         a.   Prior to the filing of an application for approval of a planned
unit development, the prospective applicant may request an informal meeting to
discuss the development of the proposed planned unit development site in
conjunction with the village's adopted planning rationale and its compatibility
with existing and anticipated land uses in the vicinity. Said meeting may be a
part of a regularly scheduled meeting, shall be open to the public, and
included on the agenda in advance of the meeting.
         b.   The preapplication conference is not mandatory nor does it
require a formal application fee or filing of a planned unit development plat.
However, the expenses incurred by the village as a result of any conferences to
discuss the development of the proposed planned unit development site shall be
paid by the applicant.
      3.   Preapplication Document Review: Prior to the filing of an
application for approval of a planned unit development, either before, after,
or in lieu of the preapplication conference, all prospective applicants shall
review copies of the village land use plan, the zoning map, and the planned
unit development sections of this title, which are available for inspection at
the village hall. The plan shall be evaluated by the petitioner in order to
determine the consistency of the proposal with the village's adopted planning
rationale. The zoning map shall be reviewed to ascertain whether or not the
proposal is likely to be compatible with existing and anticipated land uses in
the vicinity of the proposal. The planned unit development sections of this
title shall be reviewed to ensure familiarity with the village planned unit
development procedures. The applicant is required to sign a statement to the
effect that the applicant has reviewed copies of the village land use plan, the
zoning map, and the planned unit development sections of this title at the time
the planned unit development application is submitted for approval.
   B.   Step 2, Conceptual Plan Procedure:
      1.   Optional; Intent: Step 2 is optional in the discretion of the
village. The intent of the conceptual plan submission is to obtain comment from
the village for the development of a parcel of land in accord with the plans,
programs, and schedule submitted as this part of the planned unit development
application. If this procedure is elected, the petitioner is explicitly
committing the subject property to a specific arrangement of land uses at a
specific range of densities. In return, the petitioner is receiving, through
rezoning for a planned unit development, a community commitment that, following
conceptual plan approval, the petitioner can proceed to subsequent steps of the
planned unit development procedure with reasonable assurance that if the agreed
to concept is carried forth, preliminary and final plat approval will be
granted. This procedure allows for approval of an overall concept without the
necessity of prejudging long range markets. Only proposals of at least thirty
(30) acres may pursue this optional step. If this procedure is not selected, or
if a property subject to planned unit development consideration contains less
than thirty (30) acres, the second step in the procedure is the "preliminary
plat" stage.
      2.   Procedure: A request for approval of a conceptual plan, as a step in
the planned unit development procedure, shall be submitted to the village for
public hearing, review, and recommendation. The required procedure for review
of the plan shall be:
         a.   Submission of the items required of a conceptual plan petitioner
as identified under section
11-9-5 of this chapter. Said submission requirements fall into two (2) general
categories:
            (1)   Submission of data required at the time application is made
for conceptual plan approval.
            (2)   Submission of data required at the time of the first public
hearing pertaining to the specific conceptual plan.
         b.   The village shall hold a public hearing on the application for a
planned unit development conceptual plan in accord with the procedures
established for special uses in section
11-3-4 of this title. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
         c.   In the case of approval, or approval with modification, the
village board shall pass an ordinance approving the conceptual plan. Said
ordinance shall provide for a change in the official village zoning map
indicating that the subject site is approved for a planned unit development and
further allowing for any approved zoning amendments, variations, and/or special
uses. However, once these map changes are made, the petitioner must submit
subsequent preliminary plat data in accordance with the schedule set forth in
section
11-9-7 of this chapter. If same is not done, all map changes authorized by the
village board shall revert to the original zoning designation affixed to the
subject property. The village board may require such special conditions as it
may deem necessary to ensure conformance with the objectives and standards
established in this chapter. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
         d.   It is emphasized that no building or construction whatsoever may
take place within the proposed planned unit development and no permits may be
issued until the final plat and accompanying data have been submitted,
approved, and recorded. Approval of the conceptual plan shall constitute an
interim zoning acceptance of the land use and density concepts specified
therein, and shall indicate the general acceptance of the village board to
approve a "preliminary plat" that carries out, refines, and implements the
concepts expressed in the conceptual plan. The conceptual plan and a
preliminary plat for the first stage or stages of a planned unit development
may be filed and approved simultaneously.
   C.   Step 3, Preliminary Plat Procedure:
      1.   Intent:
         a.   It is the intent of the preliminary plat submission to obtain
tentative approval from the village for the plans, design, and program that the
petitioner contemplates compliance with. If the preliminary plat is approved,
the petitioner can proceed to the final plat stage with reasonable assurance
that the final plat will be approved if substantially in compliance with the
preliminary plat. If the preliminary plat is submitted without the benefit of
first completing the optional conceptual plat stage of the planned unit
development procedure, a relatively detailed submission is required to assure
the village that the proposed planned unit development substantially conforms
to the objectives and standards expressed in this chapter. If a conceptual plat
has already been submitted and approved, the submission of the preliminary plat
either in stages or in total is expected to refine the originally approved
concept.
         b.   Any parcel of property may be eligible for consideration as a
planned unit development using the preliminary plat procedure. However, each
petitioner for preliminary approval should be aware that the objectives and
standards for planned unit developments, as expressed in this chapter, must be
clearly integrated into the planned unit development submission. Failure to do
so may result in disapproval.
      2.   Procedure:
         a.   A request for approval of a preliminary plat, as a step in the
planned unit development procedure, shall be submitted to the village board
which may, but need not, refer same to the planning and zoning commission for
public hearing, review and recommendation.
         b.   The required procedure for review of the preliminary plat shall
be:
            (1)   Submission of the items required of a preliminary plat
petitioner as identified under section
11-9-5 of this chapter. Said submission requirements fall into two (2) general
categories:
               (A)   Submission of data required at the time application is
made for preliminary plat approval.
               (B)   Submission of data required at the time of the first
public hearing pertaining to the specific preliminary plat.
            (2)   The village will hold a public hearing on the application for
a planned unit development preliminary plat in accord with the procedures
established for special uses. If a public hearing was held on the conceptual
plan for the subject planned unit development, a second public hearing is not
required with the submission of the preliminary plat, but such hearing may be
requested by the village. The submission required at the time of the
preliminary plat hearing is significantly different from that required at the
conceptual plan stage. In the first stage, concepts are reviewed; at the
preliminary plat stage, precise plans and designs are the subject of scrutiny.
            (3)   Following the public hearing and review of the preliminary
plat submission, the village may recommend approval, modification, or
disapproval of the preliminary plat.
            (4)   The village board, after receipt of the preliminary plat, may
approve, modify, or disapprove the plat. In the case of approval, or approval
with modification, the village board shall authorize the plat officer to sign
the preliminary plat. If the preliminary plat is the first submission made as
part of the planned unit development procedure, the village board may pass an
ordinance for a change in the official village zoning map indicating that the
subject site is approved for a planned unit development and further allowing
for any approved zoning amendments, variations, and/or special uses. The
petitioner must submit subsequent final plat data in accordance with the
schedule set forth in section
11-9-7 of this chapter. If same is not done, all map changes authorized by the
village board shall revert to the original zoning designation affixed to the
subject property in accordance with section
11-9-7 of this chapter. The village board may require such special conditions
as it may deem necessary to ensure conformance with the objectives and
standards established in this chapter.
      3.   Limitations Of Preliminary Plat Approval:
         a.   No building or construction, excluding public improvements, may
take place within the proposed planned unit development, and no permits may be
issued, until the final plat and accompanying data have been submitted,
approved, and recorded.
         b.   Several projects or stages may compose the overall planned unit
development. If this is the case, the final plat may be submitted and approved
in several stages in accordance with the agreed to development schedule
processed with preliminary plat data. Permits shall be issued pursuant to the
processing, approval, and recording of each separate stage of the overall final
plat.
         c.   Approval of a preliminary planned unit development plat shall not
constitute approval of the final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression
of approval to the layout submitted on the preliminary plat and as a guide to
the preparation of the final plat, which will be submitted for approval by the
village and subsequent recording, upon the fulfillment of the requirements of
these regulations and conditions of the preliminary approval, if any.
         d.   The final plat shall be approved if it conforms with the
preliminary plat. The preliminary and final plats may be filed and approved
simultaneously.
   D.   Step 4, Final Plat Procedure:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the final plat is to designate with
particularity the land subdivided into conventional lots as well as the
division of other lands, not so subdivided, into common open space and building
sites. The final plat is intended as a document to be recorded. The final plat
shows the exact location of facilities, while the preliminary plat shows the
general location of the same facilities.
      2.   Procedure: The final plat shall be submitted as a planned unit
development plat and shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved and, if desired by the petitioner, may be submitted in stages with
each stage reflecting the approved preliminary plat which is proposed to be
recorded and developed; provided, however, that each stage submitted conforms
to all requirements of these regulations. The required procedure for approval
of a final plat shall be:
         a.   Submission of the items required of a final plat petitioner as
identified under section
11-9-5 of this chapter. Said submission shall be made to the village for
certification that the final plat is in conformance with planned unit
development regulations and in agreement with the approved preliminary plat.
         b.   The village board, after receipt of the final plat, shall approve
or disapprove the final plat. In the case of approval, the village board shall
authorize the president to sign the final plat. Permits are issued only after
the final planned unit development plat and any required supporting data have
been recorded with the county recorder of deeds and shall be issued in full
conformance with the planned unit development. Proof of recording of the final
plat shall be provided. The construction authorized by the building permit
shall be in full compliance with the final planned unit development plat, as
recorded. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-9-5: SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Conceptual Plan Stage:
      1.   At the time application is made for conceptual plan approval, the
following items must be submitted to the village:
         a.   Application: A written application for a planned unit
development.
         b.   Fee: A fee, established by the village board 1 , that is suitable
to cover costs incurred by the village for review of the specific proposal. If
special planning, engineering, architectural or other consultants must be
retained by the village for review of the proposed planned unit development,
the petitioner shall be so notified, and all costs for said consultants
expended by the village not covered by the filing fee shall be reimbursed by
the petitioner. A professional fee deposit may also be requested by the village
2 .
         c.   Notification List: A list of the names and addresses of owners of
all property that is situated within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the
property lines of the subject site. This list shall be current as of the date
of submission. People appearing on said list will be sent notice of the public
hearing in compliance with statutory requirements. In addition, the responsible
fire protection district (if any), affected school districts, affected park
districts, and affected sanitary and/or drainage district shall appear on a
separate list of notification. The county highway department will also be
notified. Additional parties, specified by the petitioner, may appear on the
notification list. Interested community groups, such as homeowners'
associations, may request notification for projects within adjoining areas.
Failure to provide an accurate list of names and addresses of owners of all
property that is situated within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the property
lines of the subject site shall be cause for dismissal of the planned unit
development application as well as forfeiture of all fees and expenses
incurred.
         d.   Ownership: A statement of present and proposed ownership of all
land within the development along with the legal description of the subject
site shall be submitted.
         e.   Taxes: Proof shall be furnished to indicate that there are no
delinquent taxes constituting a lien on the whole or on any part of the
property. Such proof may take the form of paid tax bills to the date of
submission of the planned unit development application, a statement from the
title insurance company indicating that no liens affect the subject site, or a
letter from the county assessor or treasurer affirming that there are no
delinquent taxes on the property.
      2.   At the time of the public hearing on the conceptual plan, twenty
(20) copies of all subsequent listed information shall be submitted (with the
exception of nonreproducible exhibits). Failure to submit any of the required
information, without a specific written waiver from the village, shall
constitute grounds for dismissal of the planned unit development petition.
Waiver of specific submission elements may be requested of the village, in
writing, at the time the planned unit development conceptual plan application
is made. Specific grounds for waiver must be stated. The conceptual plan
submission shall include the following: (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
         a.   Concept Plan: A drawing of the planned unit development shall be
prepared at a scale that provides for a clear understanding of the way in which
the property is intended to be developed. The plan shall indicate the concept
of the development with refinements to indicate the overall land use pattern,
general circulation system, open space or park system, and major features of
the development. The plan shall include: (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011
Code)
            (1)   Boundary lines and dimensions of the subject site.
            (2)   Existing and proposed easements – general location and
purpose.
            (3)   Streets on, adjacent, or proposed for the tract, including
all rights of way and pavement widths.
            (4)   Land use patterns proposed for the subject site.
            (5)   Map data – name of development, name of site planner, north
point, scale, date of preparation.
         b.   Site Data: A list of pertinent site data, including:
            (1)   Description and quantity of land uses.
            (2)   Acreage of site.
            (3)   Number of dwelling units proposed and anticipated population.
            (4)   Area of industrial, commercial, institutional, recreational,
and circulation land uses proposed.
            (5)   Densities of residential areas.
            (6)   Bedroom mixes.
         c.   Objectives: A statement indicating how the proposed planned unit
development corresponds to and complies with objectives for planned unit
developments as previously stated in this chapter.
         d.   Schedule: Development schedule indicating:
            (1)   Stages in which the project will be built, with emphasis on
area, density, use, and public facilities, such as open space, to be developed
with each stage. Overall design of each stage shall be shown on the plat and
through supporting graphic material.
            (2)   Approximate dates for beginning and completion of each stage.
            (3)   If different land use types are to be included within the
planned unit development, the schedule must include the mix of uses anticipated
to be built in each stage.
         e.   Environmental Information: Environmental information identifying
existing natural and environmental site conditions, including:
            (1)   Topography: A topographic map, if possible, underlying the
concept plan, at a minimum of one foot (1') contour intervals.
            (2)   Floodplain: Information from the most current source
specified by the village indicating the location and extent of the regulatory
floodplain.
            (3)   Soils: Information from the most current U.S. department of
agriculture, soil conservation service soils catalog, indicating the location
and species of soils. If said information is not available, soil borings may be
submitted.
            (4)   Vegetation: Location and extent of existing vegetation.
            (5)   Surface Drainage: A depiction of existing surface drainage
patterns and proposed retention and detention areas. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
         f.   Utilities: Statement indicating that sanitary sewer, storm sewer,
and water are directly available to the site, or if well and septic systems are
proposed, a statement from a licensed professional engineer indicating that the
proposed development can be suitably served by such systems. If utilities are
not directly available to the subject site, but can be made available in a
manner consistent with the village comprehensive plan, prudent engineering
principles, and with utility capacity parameters, then utilities may be
permitted to be extended to the site. If extension of utilities is proposed,
the petitioner shall submit a statement indicating the estimated improvement
costs and projected source of funding for the necessary improvements. The
petitioner shall specify what proportion of the utility improvements made
necessary as a result of the subject development, if any, he/she will pay for.
For purposes of this section, utilities shall be considered to be "not directly
available" if located more than three hundred feet (300') from the boundaries
of the subject site. This provision shall apply to the extension of sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, and water utilities only. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd.
2011 Code)
         g.   Traffic Analysis: A study providing information on the existing
road network and adjunct vehicle volumes, and the effect the proposed planned
unit development will have on the existing (or improved) road network. If
traffic or roadway improvements external to the subject site are anticipated as
a result of the proposed development, the petitioner shall submit a statement
indicating the nature and extent of those contemplated improvements. Included
in said statement shall be information pertaining to what proportion of the
external traffic and roadway improvements made necessary as a result of the
planned unit development, if any, the developer will pay for. All internal
traffic and roadway improvements associated with the planned unit development
shall be paid for by the developer.
         h.   Tax And School Impact: A study indicating the sources and amounts
of revenue to be generated to various governmental jurisdictions as a result of
the development, expected school age children generation, and estimated cost of
providing service to the development that will be absorbed by the village and
the affected school districts.
         i.   Market Analysis: Depending upon the types of land uses proposed
to be included in a planned unit development, information shall be provided
from one or more of the following categories:
            (1)   Planned unit developments proposed to contain any residential
uses shall require submission of at least the following market data:
               (A)   Details about the proposal pertaining to: housing types,
floor area of dwellings, estimated price ranges, number of bedrooms, densities,
amenities included, etc.
               (B)   Building permit issuance trends and/or surveys of existing
recently constructed residential developments shall be used in this evaluation.
               (C)   Total anticipated demand in the village for the type of
unit(s) proposed shall be estimated for the immediately subsequent five (5)
year period. The percent of that demand which would be absorbed by the proposed
planned unit development shall be identified. Methods used in determining the
five (5) year demand shall be indicated.
            (2)   Planned unit developments proposed to contain any commercial
uses shall require submission of at least the following market data:
               (A)   Details about the proposal pertaining to: number of users,
floor area of each use, bulk of buildings, price or rent ranges, floor area
ratios, approximate number of employees, place of residence of prospective
employees, etc.
               (B)   Trade area which the commercial development is intended to
serve.
               (C)   Location of comparable commercial developments within the
trade area.
               (D)   Population and effective per capita buying income of the
trade area.
               (E)   Anticipated sales volume of the commercial development.
            (3)   Planned unit developments proposed to contain any industrial
uses shall require submission of at least the following market data:
               (A)   Details about the proposal pertaining to number of users,
floor area of each use area, bulk of buildings, price or rent ranges, floor
area ratios, approximate number of employees, place of residence of prospective
employees, etc.
               (B)   Location of other industrial development within the
community.
               (C)   Market area for anticipated industries.
         j.   Land Use And Zoning Exhibit: A graphic portrayal of existing land
use and zoning patterns within a minimum of one thousand three hundred twenty
feet (1,320') of the subject site.
   B.   Preliminary Plat Stage:
      1.   At the time application is made for preliminary plat approval, the
following items must be submitted to the village:
         a.   If the preliminary plat is the first planned unit development
submission to be made, all items listed herein (conceptual plan submission
requirements, subsection A of this section) shall be required to be submitted
instead at the preliminary plat stage.
         b.   If conceptual plan approval has been granted:
            (1)   Letter Of Intent To File: A notarized letter submitted by the
owner(s) or their agent indicating the intent to file a preliminary plat as
soon as a public hearing can be scheduled. Said letter shall serve as a
preliminary plat application.
            (2)   Fee: A preliminary plat filing fee, established by the
village 3 , to cover costs incurred for review of the specific proposal. If
special planning, engineering, architectural, or other consultants must be
retained by the village for review of the proposed planned unit development,
the petitioner shall be so notified, and all costs for said consultants
expended by village not covered by the filing fee shall be reimbursed by the
petitioner. A professional fee deposit is required 4 .
            (3)   Notification List: A list of the names and addresses of
owners of all property that is situated within two hundred fifty feet (250') of
the property lines of the subject site. This list shall be current as of the
date of submission. People appearing on said list will be sent notice of the
public hearing in compliance with statutory requirements. In addition, the
responsible fire protection district (if any), affected school districts,
affected park districts, and the affected sanitary and/or drainage district
shall appear on a separate list of notification. The county highway department
will also be notified. Additional parties, specified by the petitioner, may
appear on the notification list. Interested community groups, such as
homeowners' associations, may request notification for projects within
adjoining areas. Failure to provide an accurate list of names and addresses of
owners of all property that is situated within two hundred fifty feet (250') of
the property lines of the subject site shall be cause for immediate dismissal
of the planned unit development application as well as forfeiture of all fees
and expenses incurred.
      2.   At the time of the public hearing on the preliminary plat, twenty
(20) copies of all subsequent listed information shall be submitted (with the
exception of nonreproducible exhibits). Failure to submit any of the required
information, without a specific written waiver from the village, shall
constitute grounds for dismissal of the planned unit development petition.
Waiver of specific submission elements may be requested of the village, in
writing, at the time the planned unit development preliminary plat application
is made. Specific grounds for waiver must be stated by the petitioner. The
preliminary plat submission shall include the following:
         a.   Conceptual Plan Requirements: All items listed in conceptual plan
submission requirements shall be required to be submitted at the preliminary
plat stage if the preliminary plat is the first planned unit development
submission to be made.
         b.   Detailed Plan: A drawing of the planned unit development shall be
prepared at a scale of not less than one inch equals fifty feet (1"=50'),
unless approved at another scale by the village engineer, and shall show such
designations as proposed streets (public and private), all buildings and their
uses, common open space, recreation facilities, parking areas, service areas,
and other facilities to indicate the character of the proposed development. The
submission may be composed of one or more sheets and drawings, and must
include:
            (1)   Boundary lines and dimensions of the subject site.
            (2)   Existing and proposed easements – general purpose and width.
            (3)   Streets on, adjacent, or proposed for the tract.
            (4)   Utility extensions of water lines, sanitary sewers, and storm
sewers.
            (5)   Land use designations for the subject site.
            (6)   Retention and detention areas.
            (7)   Residential lots (average lot size and minimum lot size shall
be specified).
            (8)   General location, purpose and height, in feet or stories, of
each building other than single-family residences.
            (9)   Map data – name of development, name of site planner, north
point, scale, date of preparation.
         c.   Architectural Plans: Preliminary architectural plans for all
primary buildings shall be submitted in sufficient detail to permit an
understanding of the style of the development, the design of the buildings, and
the number, size and type of dwelling units. Floor area of building types and
total ground coverage of buildings shall also be provided. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-
2004)
         d.   Adjacent Property Information: Topography of property within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the subject site, at a minimum of five foot (5')
contour intervals, with natural drainage patterns indicated and with the
subject site's topography and drainage patterns depicted. The location, size,
and invert elevation of adjacent or the closest sanitary sewer, storm sewer,
and water main, as well as documentation of the points of origin of these
facilities. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
         e.   Community Benefit Statement: A written statement comparing the
relative benefits that will accrue to the community as a result of this site
being developed under planned unit development provisions as opposed to
conventional zoning. Specific mention should be made of open space, natural
features, and architectural design. This statement supplements the "objectives"
statement that may be required with the submission of the conceptual plan or
the preliminary plat. The "objectives" statement differs from this statement in
that each of the objectives must be specifically addressed. In contrast, the
"community benefit statement", which accompanies a detailed site plan, provides
a developer the opportunity to define with particularity why his proposal
merits approval and how it will serve the community better than a conventional
development.
   C.   Final Plat Stage: At the time the final plat is filed with the village
for review and recommendation, the following items must be submitted:
      1.   Final Detailed Plan: A final planned unit development plat, suitable
for recording with the county recorder of deeds, shall be prepared. The purpose
of the final plat is to designate with particularity the land subdivided into
conventional lots as well as the division of other land, not so treated, into
common open areas and building areas. The final plat shall include:
         a.   An accurate legal description of the entire area under immediate
development within the planned development.
         b.   A planned unit development plat of all lands that are part of the
final submitted and required plat. If lands subject of the final plat are to be
subdivided, then a subdivision plat is also required.
         c.   An accurate legal description of each separate unsubdivided use
area, including common open space.
         d.   Designation of the location of the building pads, or areas, or
setback lines, or setback standards for all buildings to be constructed.
e. Certificates, seals, and signatures required for the dedication of lands 1 ,
and recording the document.
         f.   Tabulation of separate unsubdivided use area, including land
area, number of buildings, number of dwelling units, number of bedrooms, and
dwelling units per acre.
      2.   Common Open Space Documents: All common open space shall be either
conveyed to a municipal or public corporation, conveyed to a not for profit
corporation or entity established for the purpose of benefiting the owners and
residents of the planned unit development, or retained by the developer with
legally binding guarantees, in a form approved by the village attorney,
verifying that the common open space will be permanently preserved as open
area. All land conveyed to a not for profit corporation or like entity shall be
subject to the right of said corporation to impose a legally enforceable lien
for maintenance and improvement of the common open space.
      3.   Final Systems Plans: Final plans, with all required detail, shall be
submitted, including:
         a.   Engineering plans showing how the site is to be serviced with
sewer, water, well, and/or septic systems.
         b.   Lighting plans.
         c.   Drainage and stormwater retention and detention plans.
         d.   Road plans, including curbs and gutters, on site/off site
signalization, acceleration, deceleration lanes, etc.
         e.   Sidewalks, paths, and cycle trails.
         f.   Landscape plans showing the type and location of plant material,
berms, and other aesthetic treatments.
      4.   Public Facilities: All on site and/or off site public facilities and
improvements made necessary as a result of the planned unit development shall
be either constructed in advance of the approval of the final plat or
subdivider's bond or approved letters of credit posted to guarantee
construction of the required improvements. The subdivider's bond or approved
letters of credit, payable to the village of Pingree Grove, shall be sufficient
to cover the full cost of the improvements, plus twenty five percent (25%).
Detailed construction plans shall be submitted for all public facilities to be
built.
      5.   Construction Plans: Detailed plans shall be submitted for the
design, construction, or installation of site amenities, including buildings,
landscaping, lakes, and other site improvements.
      6.   Construction Schedule: A final construction schedule shall be
submitted for that portion of the planned unit development for which approval
is being requested.
      7.   Guarantee Deposit: A deposit shall be made to the village in cash or
letter of credit, approved by the village attorney, in a form acceptable to
him, or maintenance bond equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
estimated cost of public facility installations. The deposit shall be a
guarantee of satisfactory performance of the facilities constructed within the
planned unit development and shall be held by the village for a period of
eighteen (18) months from the date of acceptance of the facilities by the
village. After such eighteen (18) months, the deposit shall be refunded if the
development complies with all plans and this code and no defects have
developed, or if any defects have developed, then the balance of such deposit
shall be refunded after reimbursement for amounts expended in correcting
defective facilities.
      8.   Delinquent Taxes: A certificate shall be furnished from the
appropriate county official that no delinquent taxes exist and that all special
assessments constituting a lien on the whole or any part of the property of the
planned unit development have been paid.
      9.   Covenants: Final agreements, provisions, or covenants which will
govern the use, maintenance and continued protection of the planned unit
development shall be approved by the village and recorded at the same time as
the final planned unit development. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  11-3-9B4 of this title.
2 2. See subsection
  11-3-9B9 of this title and title 3, chapter 5 of this code.
3 1. See subsection
  11-3-9B4 of this title.
4 2. See subsection
  11-3-9B9 of this title and title 3, chapter 5 of this code.
1 1. See title 12, chapter 5 of this code for dedication or fees in lieu.
11-9-6: CHANGES:
   A.   The planned unit development shall be developed only according to the
approved and recorded final plat and all supporting data. The recorded final
plat and supporting data, together with all recorded amendments, shall be
binding on the applicants, their successors, grantees, and assigns, and shall
limit and control the use of premises and the location of structures in the
planned unit development project as set forth therein.
   B.   Major changes to the recorded planned unit development may be made as
follows:
      1.   Changes which alter the concept or intent of the planned unit
development, including increases in density, changes in the height of
buildings, reductions of proposed open space, changes in total bedroom counts
of more than five percent (5%), changes in bedroom mix of more than five
percent (5%), changes in the development schedule, changes in road standards,
changes in FAR or changes in the final governing agreements, provisions, or
covenants, may be approved only by submission and reconsideration of a new
preliminary and/or final planned unit development plat, or relevant portion
thereof, and supporting data, and following the preliminary or final plat
procedure.
      2.   If the major change alters data or evidence submitted during the
conceptual plan or preliminary plan or preliminary plat stage, then the
resubmission must begin at the preliminary plat stage. If only final plat
evidence or data is altered as a result of the major change, then the
resubmission shall begin at the final plat stage.
      3.   If major changes are proposed, a new public hearing may be required
during resubmission of the preliminary or final plat.
      4.   All changes to the original final plat shall be recorded with the
county recorder of deeds as amendments to the final plat or reflected in the
recording of a new corrected final plat.
   C.   The village board may, in its discretion, approve minor changes in the
planned unit development which do not change the concept or intent of the
development. "Minor changes" shall be any change not defined or considered by
the village as a major change. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-9-7: REVOCATION AND EXTENSION:
   A.   A planned unit development special use shall become null and void and
the subject property shall thereupon be rezoned to its most appropriate
district classification in any case where said planned unit development has:
      1.   Received conceptual plan approval and where the preliminary plat of
said planned unit development, or the first phase of the preliminary plat if
construction is to take place in phases, has not been submitted for approval
within one year after the date of approval of said conceptual plan;
      2.   Received preliminary plat approval and where the final plat of said
planned unit development, or the first phase of the final plat if construction
is to take place in phases, has not been submitted for approval within one year
after the date of approval of said preliminary plat; or
      3.   Received final plat approval and where the construction of said
planned unit development, as authorized by the issuance of a building permit,
has not begun within one year after the date of approval of said final plat
dealing with such construction.
   B.   Further, if construction of a planned unit development falls more than
one year behind the building schedule filed with the final plat of said planned
unit development, the village board may either extend said schedule or initiate
action to revoke the planned unit development special use. In doing so, a one
year extension in the building schedule filed with the final plat of a planned
unit development may, but need not, be granted by the village board. (Ord.
2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-9-8: FINDINGS OF FACT:
The village may, but need not, set forth reasons for any recommendation, and
said recommendation may set forth in what respects any proposal would be in the
public interest, including, but not limited to, findings of fact on the
following:
   A.   In what respects the proposed plan is consistent with the stated
purpose of the planned unit development regulations and with the objectives
stated herein.
   B.   Extent to which the proposed plan meets the standards of the planned
unit development regulations.
   C.   Extent to which the proposed plan departs from the zoning and
subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the subject property,
including, but not limited to, density, dimension, area, bulk, and use, and the
reasons why such departures are deemed to be in the public interest.
   D.   Method by which the proposed plan makes adequate provision for public
services, provides adequate control over vehicular traffic, provides for and
protects designated common open space, and furthers the amenities of light and
air, recreation and visual enjoyment.
   E.   Relationship and compatibility of the proposed plan to the adjacent
properties and neighborhood.
   F.   Desirability of the proposed plan as regards physical development, tax
base and economic well being of the village.
   G.   Conformity with village objectives. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
11-9-9: CONDITIONS AND GUARANTEES:
Prior to the granting of any planned unit development, the planning and zoning
commission may recommend, and the village board may stipulate, such conditions
and restrictions upon the establishment, location, design, layout, height,
density, construction, maintenance, aesthetics, operation, and other elements
of the planned unit development as deemed necessary for the protection of the
public interest, improvement of the development, protection of the adjacent
area and to secure compliance with these standards. In all cases in which
planned unit developments are granted, the village board may require such
evidence and guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the conditions
stipulated in connection with the approval of the planned unit development are
being, and will be, complied with. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-2-2004)
CHAPTER 10
OFF STREET LOADING AND PARKING
SECTION:
11-10-1: Off Street Loading Requirements
11-10-2: Required Loading Berths
11-10-3: Off Street Parking Requirements
11-10-4: Required Parking Spaces
11-10-1: OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Generally: In connection with any building or structure which is to be
erected or substantially altered and which requires the receipt or distribution
of materials or merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles, there shall be
provided off street loading berths not less than the minimum requirements
specified in this chapter.
   B.   Location:
      1.   All required loading berths shall be located on the same lot as the
use to be served, and no portion of the vehicles shall project into a street or
alley.
      2.   In industrial districts, no loading berth for vehicles of more than
two (2) tons’ capacity shall be located less than fifty feet (50') from any
residence district.
      3.   No permitted or required loading berth shall be located within
twenty five feet (25') of the nearest point of an intersection of any two (2)
streets, nor shall it be located in a required front yard or side yard.
   C.   Size: A required off street loading berth shall be at least ten feet
(10') in width by at least fifty feet (50') in length, exclusive of aisle and
maneuvering space, and shall have vertical clearance of at least fourteen feet
(14').
   D.   Access: Each required off street loading berth shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movement, and shall be subject to approval of
the village engineer.
   E.   Surfacing: All open off street loading berths shall be improved with a
compacted aggregate base not less than eight inches (8") thick or equal,
surfaced with not less than three inches (3") of hot mix asphalt, or six inches
(6") of compacted aggregate base, with six inches (6") of concrete.
   F.   Use To Satisfy Parking Requirements Prohibited: Space allowed for any
off street loading berth shall not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the
space requirements for any off street parking facilities or portions thereof.
   G.   Storage And/Or Vehicle Repair And Service Prohibited: No storage of any
kind nor motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind shall be permitted
within any required loading berth. (1990 Code §§ 21.10.010, 21.10.020,
21.10.030, 21.10.040, 21.10.050, 21.10.060, 21.10.070; amd. Ord. 2022-O-24, 11-
7-2022)
11-10-2: REQUIRED LOADING BERTHS:
For the uses herein listed, loading berths shall be provided as specified:
   A.   Auditoriums; banks, business and professional offices, or public
administration buildings; bowling alleys, hospitals, schools, colleges,
sanatoriums, and other similar institutional uses; and hotels or private clubs
and lodges:
      1.   For such a building containing ten thousand (10,000) to one hundred
thousand (100,000) square feet of floor area or fraction thereof in such a
building, one loading berth.
      2.   For each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of
floor area or fraction thereof in such a building, one additional loading
berth.
   B.   Manufacturing, fabricating, assembly, disassembly, warehousing,
storing, cleaning, servicing, testing, and repairing establishments:
      1.   For such a building containing five thousand (5,000) to forty
thousand (40,000) square feet of floor area, one loading berth.
      2.   For such a building containing forty thousand (40,000) to one
hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of floor area, two (2) loading berths,
plus one additional loading berth for each additional one hundred thousand
(100,000) square feet of floor area or fraction thereof.
   C.   Retail stores, furniture and appliance stores, household equipment and
furniture stores, repair shops, wholesale stores, and establishments handling
the sale and consumption of food on the premises, loading berths in accordance
with the following schedule:
 
Square Feet Of Floor Area                   Minimum Number
5,000 to 10,000                             1
10,000 to 25,000                            2
25,000 to 40,000                            3
40,000 to 100,000                           4
Each additional 100,000 or fraction thereof 1 additional
 
   D.   Theaters:
      1.   For such a building containing eight thousand (8,000) to twenty five
thousand (25,000) square feet of floor area, one loading berth.
      2.   For each additional fifty thousand (50,000) square feet of floor
area or fraction thereof, one additional loading berth.
   E.   Other uses: Off street loading berths shall be provided in accordance
with requirements determined by the village board of trustees based upon
requirements heretofore set forth for the most similar cases. (1990 Code
§21.10.080)
11-10-3: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   Any off street parking space in connection with existing buildings
or structures on the effective date hereof shall not be removed, enlarged, or
altered except in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   In connection with any building or structure which is to be erected
or substantially altered and which requires off street parking spaces, there
shall be provided such off street parking space in accordance with regulations
set forth in subsections B through I of this section and section
11-10-4 of this chapter. (1990 Code § 21.10.090)
   B.   Use: Except as may otherwise be provided for the parking of trucks or
for special uses, required accessory off street parking facilities required as
accessory to uses listed herein shall be solely for the parking of passenger
automobiles of patrons, occupants, or employees. (1990 Code § 21.10.100)
   C.   Collective Use: Off street parking facilities for separate uses may be
provided collectively if the total number of spaces so provided is not less
than the sum of the separate requirements of each such use, and if all
regulations governing the location of accessory parking spaces in relation to
the use served are observed; but no parking space, or portion thereof, shall
serve as the required space for more than one use unless otherwise authorized
in accordance with this title. (1990 Code § 21.10.130)
   D.   Location:
      1.   Parking spaces shall be located on the same lot as the use served,
except uses other than single-family or two-family dwellings which are in
existence on the effective date hereof and which are subsequently altered or
enlarged; and new uses in the C-1 general commercial district may be served in
accordance with requirements of this title by parking facilities located on
land other than the lot on which the building or use served is located;
provided, that, such facilities are located within three hundred feet (300')
walking distance from the main entrance to the use served. (1990 Code §
21.10.110; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   The terms of this section are subject to the provision that parking
space for uses in the business districts and industrial districts under this
title shall not be located in residence districts. (1990 Code § 21.10.110)
      3.   Off street parking facilities for uses within the C-1 general
commercial district may be provided on land other than the land on which the
use served is located; provided, that such facilities are located within three
hundred feet (300') walking distance from the main entrance to the use served.
(1990 Code § 21.10.110; amd. 2011 Code)
      4.   Off street parking spaces may be located in yards except required
front yards and side yards adjoining a street. (1990 Code § 21.10.170)
   E.   Dimensions:
      1.   The width of required off street parking spaces shall be as follows:
         a.   Except as otherwise provided herein, all off street parking
spaces shall be at least nine feet (9') in width.
      2.   The dimensions of all off street parking spaces, aisles and layout
shall be in accordance with the following standards:
Dimension Parking Angle
          45°50°90°
Dimension                                 Parking Angle
                                          45°   50°   90°
A.   Stall Width (Parallel to Aisle)   12' 9" 10' 5" 9'
B.   Stall Width Perpendicular to Vehic9'     9'     9'
C.   Module Width                      48'    52' 6" 60'
D.   Aisle Width (one-way)             13'2"  15'    24'
E.   Aisle Width (two-way)             22'    22'    24'
F.   Stall Depth to Interlock          17'5"  18'9"  18'
 
Stalls parallel to curb shall have a minimum length of 21 feet and a minimum
aisle width of 25 fee.
All stalls shall have vertical clearance of at least 7 feet.
All stalls shall be striped or marked.
   F.   Access:
      1.   Each required off street parking space shall open directly upon an
aisle or a driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and efficient
means of vehicular access to such parking space.
      2.   All off street parking facilities shall be provided with appropriate
means of vehicular access to a street, alley, or driveway in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movement.
      3.   A parking area containing four (4) or more parking spaces shall have
vehicular access to it over a street, alley, or driveway containing all
weather, hard surfaced pavement, and the location and route of access to such a
parking area shall be identified. No driveway across public property shall have
a width exceeding twenty four feet (24'), exclusive of curb returns.
   G.   Design And Maintenance:
      1.   Open And Enclosed Parking Spaces: Accessory parking spaces located
on the same lot as occupied by the use served may be open to the sky or
enclosed in a building. Accessory parking spaces located elsewhere than on the
same lot occupied by the use served shall be open to the sky.
      2.   Surfacing: All open off street parking areas shall be improved with
a compacted aggregate base not less than eight inches (8") thick and surfaced,
with three inches (3") of hot mix asphalt, or not less than six inches (6") of
a compacted aggregate base surfaced with a minimum of six inches (6") of
concrete.
      3.   Screening And Landscaping: All open automobile parking areas
containing more than four (4) parking spaces shall be effectively screened on
each side adjoining or fronting on any residential or any institutional
property by a wall or fence not less than five feet (5') high nor more than six
feet (6') high, or a densely planted, compact hedge not less than five feet
(5') in height; and wheel stops of masonry, steel, or heavy timber shall be
placed not nearer than five feet (5') from the street line in districts where a
front yard is not required, or from side lot lines.
      4.   Lighting: Illumination of an off street parking area shall be
arranged so as not to reflect direct rays of light into adjacent residential
districts and streets. All lighting shall be extinguished no later than thirty
(30) minutes after the close of business of the use being served, except as may
otherwise be authorized by the village board.
   H.   Vehicle Repair And Service: No motor vehicle repair work of any kind
shall be permitted in parking lots. No gasoline or motor oil shall be sold in
conjunction with any accessory parking facilities unless such facilities are
located within a completely enclosed building, in which case, gasoline and
motor oil may be sold within such building to the users of such facilities;
provided, that no advertising sign is visible from outside the building; and,
provided further, that all gasoline pumps shall be effectively screened from
view of the street.
   I.   Computation Of Number Of Spaces: When determination of the number of
off street parking spaces required by this title results in a requirement of a
fractional space, any fraction of one-half (½) or less may be disregarded,
while a fraction in excess of one-half (½) shall be counted as one parking
space. (1990 Code §§ 21.10.120, 21.10.140, 21.10.150. 21.10.160, 21.10.180;
amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2022-O-24, 11-7-2022)
11-10-4: REQUIRED PARKING SPACES:
All uses shall provide off street parking spaces as follows:
Use Number of Required Spaces
Use                                        Number of Required Spaces
A. Residential                              
  1.  Single-family & two-family          2 spaces per dwelling unit
       dwellings
  2.  Attached-family dwellings           2 spaces per dwelling unit plus 0.5
                                           quest spaces per dwelling unit
                                           1 space per room plus 2 spaces per
                                           each three employees, plus 1 space
                                           per three persons of maximum
B. Hotels and motels                       capacity of each meeting/banquet
                                           room, plus parking as required for
                                           bars, restaurants, gift shops, etc,
                                           as applicable.
                                           3 spaces per 1.000 square feet of
C. Civic and cultural facilities           gross floor area plus 3 spaces per
                                           1.000 square feet of gross land
                                           area.
D. Schools, institutions, and related uses
                                           1 space per employee, plus 0.5 space
  1.  Elementary schools and high schools per classroom, plus 1 space per 5
                                           students aged 16 years or older.
                                           0.5 space per classroom seat or the
                                           maximum number of students that can
  2.  Colleges and universities           bee accommodated in accordance with
                                           design capacity, whichever is
                                           greater.
                                           1 space per student based on the
  3.  Trade schools                       maximum number of students that can
                                           be accommodated in accordance with
                                           design capacity.
  4.  Day care center or preschool        1 space per employee plus 1 space
                                           per 10 client children or adults.
                                           1 space per 4 seats based on maximum
  5.  Religious institutions              capacity of the facility, plus
                                           adequate space for all vehicles
                                           associated with the institution.
                                           1 space per three persons based on
  6.  Libraries                           the maximum capacity of the
                                           building, plus 1 space per employee.
  7.  Hospitals                           1 space per 2 beds plus 1 space per
                                           employee.
  8.  Museum                              1 space per 1,000 square feet of
                                           gross floor area.
  9.  Auditoriums, theaters, and other    1 space per four seats based on the
       places of assembly                  maximum capacity of the facility.
E. Recreational Uses
                                           5 spaces per alley plus one space
                                           per employee for the work shift with
  1.  Bowling alleys                      the largest number of employees,
                                           plus additional spaces as required
                                           for bars, restaurants, etc.
                                           1 space per 3 patrons based on the
                                           maximum capacity of the facility
  2.  Dance hall                          plus 1 space per employee for the
                                           work shift with the largest number
                                           of employees.
                                           50 spaces per 9 holes plus 1 space
  3.  Golf courses                        per employee for the work shift with
                                           the largest number of employees.
                                           1 space per tee plus 1 space per
  4.  Golf driving range                  employee for the work shift with the
                                           largest number of employees.
                                           0.5 space per exercise station plus
                                           1 space per 1,000 square feet of
  5.  Health and athletic club            activity area plus 1 space per
                                           employee for the work shift with the
                                           largest number of employees.
                                           1 space per 4,000 square feet of
  6.  Playing fields                      active recreation area plus 1 space
                                           per half-acre of passive recreation
                                           area.
                                           1 spaceper75 square feet of pool
  7.  Swimming pool                       area plus 1 space per employee for
                                           the work shift with the largest
                                           number of employees.
                                           1 space per 4 patrons based on the
                                           maximum capacity of the facility
  8.  Other indoor recreational uses      plus 1 space per employee for the
                                           work shift with the largest number
                                           of employees.
  9.  Other outdoor recreational uses     1 space per 10,000 square feet of
                                           gross land area.
                                           1 space per 250 square feet of gross
                                           floor area plus 1 space per employee
F. Business Establishments                 for the work shift with the largest
                                           number of employees, except as
                                           specifically set forth below:
                                           3 spaces per veterinarian plus 1
  1.  Animal hospitals                    space per employee for the work
                                           shift with the largest number of
                                           employees.
                                           1 space per employee for the work
                                           shift with the largest number of
                                           employees plus 1 space per 150
                                           square feet of gross floor area for
  2.  Automobile fueling stations         any convenience store plus parking
                                           as required for restaurants, video
                                           gaming facilities, etc. Spaces at
                                           fueling positions may be counted as
                                           parking spaces.
  3.  Convenience store                   1 space per 150 square feet of gross
                                           floor area.
                                           1 space per 200 square feet of gross
  4.  Dry cleaners                        floor area plus 1 space per employee
                                           for the work shift with the largest
                                           number of employees.
                                           1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                           floor area plus space per employee
                                           for the work shift with the largest
  5.  Financial institutions              number of employees. Where drive-
                                           thru lanes are provided, sufficient
                                           space shall be provided for a
                                           minimum of four (4) waiting vehicles
                                           at each lane.
                                           1 space per 3 patron seats based on
                                           maximum capacity of the facility
  6.  Funeral homes                       plus 1 space per employee, plus 1
                                           space per vehicle owned by the
                                           establishment, plus on-site queuing
                                           fora minium of eight vehicles.
                                           1 space per 200 quare feet of gross
  7.  Grocery store or supermarket        floor area plus 1 space per employee
                                           for the work shift with the largest
                                           number of employees.
                                           1 space per washer or per dryer,
  8.  Laundromat                          whichever is greater, plus 1 space
                                           per employee.
                                           2 customer spaces per salesperson
                                           for the work shift with the largest
  9.  Motor vehicle sales establishments  number of employees plus 1 employee
                                           parking space per employee for the
                                           work shift with the largest number
                                           of employees.
                                           1 space per 200 square feet of gross
  10. Personal services                   floor area plus 1 space per employee
                                           for the work shift with the greatest
                                           number of employees.
                                           1 space per 400 square feet of dross
  11. Repair services                     floor area plus 1 space per employee
                                           for the work shift with the largest
                                           number of employees.
                                           1 space per 100 square feet of gross
  12. Restaurant, full service            floor area plus 1 space per employee
                                           for the work shift with the largest
                                           number of employees.
                                           1 space per 75 square feet of gross
                                           floor area plus 1 space per employee
                                           for the work shift with the largest
  13. Restaurant, fast food / quick serve number of employees. On-site queuing
                                           fora minimum of nine (9) vehicles
                                           shall be provided for drive-thru
                                           lanes.
                                           1 space per 100 of gross floor area
  14. Taverns, night clubs, and lounges   plus 1 space per employee for the
                                           work shift with the largest number
                                           of employees.
                                           3 spaces per service bay plus 1
  15. Vehicular repair & maintenance      space per employee for the work
       shops                               shift with the largest number of
                                           employees.
                                           1 space per 500 square feet of gross
                                           floor area dedicated to brewing/
                                           distilling/ wine-making operations
                                           and cold/warm storage, plus 1 space
  16. Microbrewery/distillery/ winery     per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
       with sampling area                  area dedicated to sampling area,
                                           retail displays, customer seating,
                                           and other non-production related
                                           uses, plus parking as required for
                                           bars, restaurants, etc.
G. Offices
  1.  Government, professional, and       1 space per 200 square feet of gross
       business offices                    floor area.
                                           3 spaces per exam room plus 1 space
  2.  Health clinics/offices              per employee for the work shift with
                                           the largest number of employees.
H. Industrial and Related Uses
  1.  Light industry                      2 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
                                           gross floor area.
                                           1 space per employee for the two
  2.  Heavy industry                      consecutive work shifts with the
                                           largest number of employees.
  3.  Self-service storage facility       1 space per 10 storage cubicles.
                                           1 space per employee for the work
  4.  Warehouse                           shift with the largest number of
                                           employees plus 1 space per 5,000
                                           square feet of gross floor area.
                                           1 space per employee for the work
  5.  Wholesale business                  shift with the largest number of
                                           employees plus 1 space per 2,500
                                           square feet of gross floor area.
                                           Required parking spaces for uses not
                                           listed shall be provided in
I. Other uses                              accordance with the recommendations
                                           of the Planning Commission and
                                           Village Board.
 
In addition to required off street parking areas, all commercial developments
and recreational uses established or redeveloped after January 1, 2023 shall
provide permanent bicycle parking facilities to accommodate a minimum of four
(4) bicycles or one (1) permanent bicycle parking stall per twenty (20)
required off street parking spaces for vehicles. Owners and operators of
commercial developments and recreational uses existing as of January 1, 2023
shall use their best efforts to incorporate bicycle parking facilities when
constructing site improvements, building additions, or major remodeling
projects.
Computation. When determination of the number of off-street parking spaces
required by this Ordinance results in a requirement of a fractional space, a
fraction shall be counted as one (1) parking space. Parking spaces required on
an employee basis shall be based on the maximum number of employees on duty, or
residing, or both, on the premises at any one time. (1990 Code § 21.10.190;
amd. Ord. 2022-O-24, 11-7-2022)
CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
11-11-1: Purpose
11-11-2: Continuance Of Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses
11-11-3: Exempt Buildings, Structures And Uses
11-11-4: Restrictions On Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses
11-11-5: Condemnation Of Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
11-11-6: Nonconforming Use Of Buildings Or Structures
11-11-7: Nonconforming Use Of Land
11-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of nonconforming
uses, buildings and structures, and to specify those circumstances and
conditions under which those nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses
shall be gradually eliminated upon reaching the end of their respective normal
useful life, in accordance with the authority granted by 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-13-17. (1990 Code §21.11.010; amd. 2011 Code)
11-11-2: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
Any nonconforming building, structure, or use which existed lawfully at the
effective date hereof and which remains nonconforming, and any such building,
structure, or use which shall become nonconforming upon the effective date
hereof or of any subsequent amendment hereto, may be continued, some
indefinitely, others for specified and respective periods of time, subject to
the regulations of this title. (1990 Code §21.11.020)
11-11-3: EXEMPT BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   No building, structure, or use, lawfully established on the effective
date hereof, shall be subject to the amortization provisions of this chapter
solely by reason of being nonconforming with respect to the standards
prescribed in this chapter for any of the following:
      1.   Floor area ratio.
      2.   Yards, front, side, rear, or transitional.
      3.   Lot area per dwelling unit.
      4.   Lot width.
      5.   Ground floor area per dwelling.
      6.   Gross floor area.
      7.   Building height.
      8.   Off street parking or off street loading spaces.
      9.   Performance standards.
   B.   No building, structure, or use, lawfully established on the effective
date hereof, and located in any industrial district, shall be subject to the
amortization provisions of this chapter. No building, structure, or use,
lawfully established on the effective date hereof, and located in any
industrial district, shall be considered nonconforming solely by reason of
being nonconforming with respect to off street loading berths being located in
a front yard or a side yard adjoining a street, and with respect to such off
street loading berths being less than fifty feet (50') in length but not less
than twenty seven feet (27') in length.
   C.   No building, structure, or use, located in a business district, shall
be subject to the amortization provisions of this chapter if it is a permitted
building, structure, or use in any business district.
   D.   No dwelling or dwelling unit, lawfully existing on the effective date
hereof, shall be subject to the amortization provisions of this chapter.
   E.   For the purposes of this chapter, a building or structure, lawfully
constructed or established on the effective date hereof, shall be deemed to
include any building or structure for which a building permit has been lawfully
issued prior to such date, and on which construction is begun within the
required period of time as set forth in this title. (1990 Code §21.11.030)
11-11-4: RESTRICTIONS ON NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
Any lawfully existing building or structure, which does not conform with the
regulations of the district in which it is located, shall be subject to the
following provisions:
   A.   Repairs And Alterations: Ordinary repairs and alterations may be made
to a nonconforming building or structure; provided, that no structural
alterations shall be made in or to such building or structure, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in
the district in which it is located, except those required by law, or except to
make the building or structure, and use thereof, conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is located. For the purpose of this chapter, ordinary
repairs, as determined by the building commissioner, shall include the
replacement of storage tanks where the safety of operation of the installation
requires such replacement.
   B.   Additions And Enlargements:
      1.   A nonconforming building or structure, all or substantially all of
which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in the district in which
it is located, shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless such
nonconforming building or structure, and use thereof, including all additions
and enlargements thereto, is made to conform to all the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
      2.   A nonconforming building or structure, which is nonconforming only
as to bulk, shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless such
additions and enlargements thereto are made to conform to all regulations of
the district in which it is located.
   C.   Moving: No building or structure, which does not conform to all of the
regulations of the district in which it is located, shall be moved in whole or
in part to any other location unless every portion of such building or
structure is moved and the use thereof is made to conform to all regulations of
the district into which it is moved. (1990 Code §21.11.040)
   D.   Restoration Of Damaged Building: A building or structure, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use which is not
permitted in the district in which it is located, and which is destroyed or
damaged by fire or other casualty or act of God or act of nature to the extent
that the cost of restoration to the condition in which it was before the
occurrence will exceed fifty percent (50%) of the cost of restoration of the
entire building or structure new, shall not be restored unless said building or
structure, and the use thereof, shall conform to all regulations of the
district in which it is located. In the event that such damage or destruction
is less than fifty percent (50%) of the cost of restoration of the entire
building or structure new, no repairs or reconstruction shall be made unless
such restoration is started within one year from the date of the partial
destruction and is diligently prosecuted to completion. (1990 Code §21.11.040;
amd. 2011 Code)
   E.   Discontinuance Of Use: A building, structure, or portion thereof, all
or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use which is not
permitted in the district in which it is located, and which is vacant,
unoccupied, and not used on the effective date hereof, or which thereafter
becomes vacant and remains unoccupied, or is not used for a continuous period
of one hundred eighty (180) days, shall not thereafter be occupied or used
except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the district in which
it is located. (1990 Code §21.11.040)
   F.   Expansion Of Use: The nonconforming use of a part of a building or
structure in which said use is presently located, shall be permitted to
continue, but no changes or structural alterations shall be made unless such
changes or structural alterations, and the use thereof, conform to all the
regulations of the district in which the building or structure is located.
(1990 Code §21.11.040; amd. 2011 Code)
   G.   Change Of Use: The nonconforming use of a building or structure may be
changed to a use permitted in the district in which the building or structure
is located, but no change shall extend or otherwise modify any provision made
in this chapter for elimination of such nonconforming building or structure,
and the use thereof.
   H.   Elimination Of Nonconforming Buildings And Structures: Any building or
structure, all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use
not permitted in the district in which it is located, shall be removed and its
use thereafter shall cease, or shall be converted to a building or structure
designed or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is
located, in accordance with the following conditions and amortization
schedules:
      1.   In all residence districts, any building or structure, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use permitted only in
a business or industrial district, shall be removed or it shall be altered and
converted to a building or structure designed for a use permitted in the
district in which it is located within six (6) months after the termination of
the respective period of time as set forth in subsection H2 of this section.
(1990 Code §21.11.040)
      2.   Any building or structure which is located in the C-1 general
commercial district, and which is designed or intended for a use permitted only
in industrial districts, shall be removed or shall be altered, remodeled, or
converted for a permitted use within six (6) months after the termination of
the life of such building or structure, which is established in accordance with
the respective amortization period set forth in the following: (1990 Code
§21.11.040; amd. 2011 Code)
         a.   Assessed valuation more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) 1
, in accordance with the types of construction classifications set forth in the
building code of the village:
            (1)   Fireproof construction and noncombustible construction, forty
(40) years from date of building permit or twenty five (25) years from the
effective date hereof, whichever last occurs.
            (2)   Exterior masonry wall construction, thirty (30) years from
date of building permit or twenty (20) years from the effective date hereof,
whichever last occurs.
            (3)   Frame construction, twenty (20) years from date of building
permit or ten (10) years from the effective date hereof, whichever last occurs.
         b.   Assessed valuation at least two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) 1 ,
but not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) 2 , eight (8) years from
date of building permit or four (4) years from the effective date hereof,
whichever last occurs.
         c.   Assessed valuation under two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) 3 ,
four (4) years from date of building permit or two (2) years from the effective
date hereof, whichever last occurs.
      3.   The nonconforming use of a building or structure shall be terminated
at the end of the amortization period of said building or structure, as set
forth in this subsection, and shall not thereafter be operated on the premises.
(1990 Code §21.11.040)
 
Notes
1 1. On the effective date hereof.
1 1. On the effective date hereof.
2 2. On the effective date hereof.
3 3. On the effective date hereof.
11-11-5: CONDEMNATION OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   The village, at any time and from time to time by ordinance duly
enacted and in accordance with the authority vested in it by 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes, may:
      1.   Acquire, by purchase, condemnation or otherwise, any buildings or
structures which do not conform to the standards fixed by the village pursuant
to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes and all land which is necessary or appropriate
for the rehabilitation or redevelopment of any area blighted by substandard
buildings or structures; (1990 Code §21.11.050; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   Remove or demolish all nonconforming buildings or structures so
acquired;
      3.   Hold and use any remaining property for public purposes; and
      4.   Sell, lease, or exchange such property as is not required for public
purposes, subject to the provisions of this title or of any amendment hereto.
   B.   No such acquisition by condemnation shall be made until such time as
the planning and zoning commission, at the request of the village board or upon
its own initiative, shall have made a study of the area within which such
nonconforming building or structure is located, and shall have filed a written
report on such study with the village board. (1990 Code §21.11.050)
11-11-6: NONCONFORMING USE OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
The lawfully existing nonconforming use of part or all of a building or
structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure is designed
or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is located, may be
continued subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Expansion: The nonconforming use of part of a building or structure,
all or substantially all of which building or structure is designed or intended
for a use permitted in the district in which it is located, shall not be
expanded or extended into any other portion of such building or structure, nor
changed to any other nonconforming use.
   B.   Discontinuance: If a nonconforming use of a building or structure, all
or substantially all of which building or structure is designed or intended for
a use permitted in the district in which it is located, is discontinued for a
period of ninety (90) days, it shall not be renewed, and any subsequent use of
the building or structure shall conform to the use regulations of the district
in which the premises is located.
   C.   Change: No nonconforming use shall be changed to another nonconforming
use when such nonconforming use is located in a building or structure, all or
substantially all of which building or structure is designed or intended for a
permitted use.
   D.   Elimination: In all residence districts, any use which lawfully existed
at the effective date hereof, but is permitted only in a business or industrial
district, and which is located in a building, all or substantially all of which
is designed or intended for a residential purpose, shall be entirely
discontinued and shall thereafter cease operation within five (5) years from
the effective date hereof. (1990 Code §21.11.060)
11-11-7: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land not involving a building or structure, or in
connection with which any building or structure thereon is incidental or
accessory to the principal use of the land, may be continued subject to the
following provisions:
   A.   Expansion: A nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded or
extended beyond the area it occupies.
   B.   Discontinuance: If a nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a
period of six (6) consecutive months, it shall not thereafter be renewed, and
any subsequent use of land shall conform to the regulations of the district in
which the land is located.
   C.   Change: A nonconforming use of land shall not be changed to any other
use except to a use permitted in the district in which the land is located.
   D.   Elimination: The nonconforming use of land shall be discontinued and
cease in accordance with the following:
      1.   Where no building or structure is employed in connection with such
use, discontinued within one year.
      2.   Where the only buildings or structures or other physical
improvements employed are accessory or incidental to such use and have an
assessed valuation of not more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00),
discontinued within two (2) years.
      3.   Where the improvements, underground or substantially at ground
level, which comprise all or substantially all of the improvements employed in
a nonconforming use of land and which have an assessed valuation of more than
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), discontinued within five (5) years.
      4.   Where a nonconforming use of land is accessory to the nonconforming
use of a building or structure, discontinued on the same date on which the
nonconforming use of the building or structure is discontinued. (1990 Code
§21.11.070)
CHAPTER 12
RENEWABLE ENERGY
SECTION:
11-12-1: Purposes
11-12-2: Definitions
11-12-3: Requirements For Building Mounted Wind Energy Systems (BWES)
11-12-4: Additional Standards (BWES)
11-12-5: Maintenance, Complaints And Decommissioning (BWES)
11-12-6: Historic Districts And Landmarks (BWES)
11-12-7: Requirements For Small Wind Energy Systems (SWES)
11-12-8: Site Planning And Site Capacity (SWES)
11-12-9: Additional Standards (SWES)
11-12-10: Maintenance, Complaints And Decommissioning (SWES)
11-12-11: Historic Districts And Landmarks (SWES)
11-12-12: Large Wind Energy Systems (LWES)
11-12-13: Requirements For Solar Energy Systems (SES)
11-12-14: Geothermal Energy Systems
11-12-15: Indemnification
11-12-16: Preemption
11-12-1: PURPOSES:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Provide regulations for the safe, effective, and efficient development
and use of renewable energy systems in the village of Pingree Grove.
   B.   To promote the supply of sustainable and renewable energy resources, in
support of national, state, and local goals.
   C.   To facilitate energy cost savings and economic opportunities for
Pingree Grove residents.
   D.   Preserve the aesthetics of areas of the village in the interest of
maintaining property values, public health and welfare.
   E.   To establish reasonable and uniform regulations for the location,
installation, operation, maintenance, and decommissioning of renewable energy
systems.
   F.   To assure that any development and production of wind generated
electricity in Pingree Grove is safe and to minimize any potentially adverse
effects on the community, including impacts to wildlife resources. (Ord. 2013-
O-03, 4-1-2013)
11-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONMENT: Any wind energy system (WES) and/or solar energy system (SES) that
has not been repaired to operating condition within the reasonable time frame
identified by Pingree Grove, as provided in this chapter.
AMBIENT SOUND: The all encompassing sound at a given location, usually a
composite of sounds from many sources near and far. For the purpose of this
chapter, the "ambient sound level" shall mean the quiescent background level,
that is, the quietest of ten (10) second average sound levels measured when
there are no nearby or distinctly audible sound sources (e.g., dogs, cars in
line of sight, or jets). Daytime ambient measurements should be made during
midmorning, weekday hours while nighttime measurements should be made after
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight.
APPLICANT: The owner, who is in the process of submitting or has submitted an
application to install a renewable energy system project in Pingree Grove.
BUILDING MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (BSES): Solar energy systems that are
structurally attached either to the roof or side of a building.
BUILDING MOUNTED WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (BWES): Wind energy systems that are
structurally attached either onto the roof of or to the side of a building.
CONCENTRATING SOLAR POWER: An alternative energy system that uses mirrors to
reflect and concentrate sunlight onto receivers that collect the solar energy
and convert it to heat.
DAYTIME HOURS: The hours of the day from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M., local time.
DECIBEL (dB): The unit of sound level based on a reference where zero dB
represents the threshold of hearing at one thousand (1,000) Hz for a healthy
young adult.
DECOMMISSIONING: Once a renewable energy system has been deemed inoperable or
abandoned its components must be disassembled and removed from the premises,
including the foundation. Upon removal, the site shall be restored to its
original preconstruction condition.
FAA: The federal aviation administration of the United States department of
transportation.
FCC: The federal communications commission.
FINANCIAL ASSURANCE: A reasonable assurance from a creditworthy party, examples
of which include a surety bond, trust instrument, cash escrow, or irrevocable
letter of credit.
FREESTANDING SOLAR ENERGY: An accessory structure solar energy system that is
not attached to another structure or is ground mounted.
GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SYSTEM: A mechanical heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning system containing buried coils in order to utilize constant
subsurface temperatures to heat and cool structures.
GRID INTERTIE WES SYSTEM: A system that converts wind energy to electrical
energy that is connected to an electric circuit served by an electric utility
company.
HIGH QUALITY AQUATIC RESOURCE: Waters of the United States or isolated waters
of Kane County that are determined to be critical due to their uniqueness,
scarcity, function and/or value.
HORIZONTAL AXIS WIND TURBINE (HAWT): This is the most typical type of turbine
used. They have the main rotor shaft and generator at the top of the tower, and
must be pointed into the wind. Small turbines are pointed by a simple wind
vane, while large turbines generally use a wind sensor coupled with a servo
motor. Most have a gearbox, which turns the slow rotation of the blades into a
quicker rotation that is more suitable to drive an electrical generator.
IDNR: The Illinois state department of natural resources.
LARGE WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (LWES): Wind energy systems with turbine towers and
fully extended blades measuring taller than one hundred twenty five feet (125')
from the ground. LWES include one or more wind turbines, electronic conversion
and distribution systems. They typically produce energy to be sold commercially
and have a nameplate capacity of seven hundred fifty (750) kW to 2.5 MW.
MET TOWER: A meteorological tower with an anemometer, used for the measurement
of wind speed.
NACELLE: The part containing the shaft, gearbox, and generator in a typical
horizontal axis turbine.
NAMEPLATE WATTAGE: The amount of energy produced from a WES at maximum or
optimum wind speeds within one hour, as indicated by the manufacturer.
NEIGHBORING PROPERTY: Any property within five hundred feet (500') of a
renewable energy system.
NIGHTTIME HOURS: The time of the day after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. until seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M., local time.
NOISE: Sound that adversely affects the psychological or physiological well
being of people.
NONPARTICIPATING PROPERTY: A property that is not owned by the owner of the
property on which the renewable energy system is proposed or installed.
OPERATIONAL CONDITION: WES facilities being capable of operating at full
capacity while meeting all sound, shadow flicker and other permit conditions.
OPERATOR: The entity responsible for the day to day operation and maintenance
of the renewable energy system, including any third party subcontractors.
OWNER: The person(s), who hold(s) title of the property on which a renewable
energy system is installed; or the entity or entities with an equity interest
in the renewable energy system, including their respective successors and
assigns.
PARTICIPATING PROPERTY: A property that is owned by the owner of the property
on which the renewable energy system is proposed or installed.
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: A qualified individual who is licensed as a professional
engineer in the state of Illinois.
RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM: A WES, SES, or "geothermal energy system" as defined
in this chapter.
SHADOW FLICKER: The on and off strobe light effect caused by the shadow of
moving blades cast by the sun passing above the turbine. Shadow flicker
intensity is defined as the difference or variation in brightness at a given
location in the presence and absence of a shadow.
SILHOUETTE: The area covered by moving blades of WES turbine, as viewed from
the front elevation, described in square feet.
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (SWES): Freestanding, tower mounted wind energy
systems with a system height measuring less than one hundred twenty five feet
(125') from the ground. SWES facilities are accessory structures that generate
power for local distribution and consumption. Generators typically range from
one kW to one hundred (100) kW in nameplate wattage.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES): A system that uses the power of the sun to capture,
distribute and/or store energy for on site consumption of utility power.
SOUND: A disturbance or oscillation that propagates outwardly as acoustic waves
through the air.
SOUND FREQUENCY: The number of oscillations per second expressed in hertz (Hz).
How we perceive sound is partly dependent on frequency. High frequency sound
has more oscillations per second, whereas low frequency sound has fewer.
   A.   Audible Or Tonal Sound: Sound frequencies between twenty (20) and
twenty thousand (20,000) Hz. With WES, this may include mechanical sounds from
rotating machinery experienced as "hum" or "pitch" occurring at distinct
frequencies.
   B.   Broadband: A wide range of frequencies above one hundred (100) Hz. With
WES, the aerodynamics from the displacement of air from the turning blades of a
wind turbine creates a "swishing" or "whooshing" sensation.
   C.   Low Frequency: Sound with frequencies below one hundred (100) Hz,
including audible sound and infrasound.
   D.   Infrasound: Sound frequencies below twenty (20) Hz, which if
sufficiently intense, can be perceived by many individuals.
SOUND LEVEL: The A-weighted sound pressure level in decibels (dB) (or the C-
weighted level if specified) as measured using a sound level meter that meets
the requirements of a type 2 or better precision instrument according to ANSI
S1.4. The "average" sound level is time averaged over a suitable period (say 1
minute) using an integrating sound level meter that meets the requirements of
ANSI S12.43.
STRUCTURAL ENGINEER: An engineer who is licensed and registered to practice
structural engineering in the state of Illinois under the Illinois structural
engineering act and whose principal professional practice is in the field of
structural engineering.
STRUCTURAL WEIGHT: The combined weight of the tower, wind turbine generator,
and any other component(s) otherwise supported by the base foundation.
SUBSTATION: The apparatus that connects the electrical collection system of the
WES facilities and increases the voltage for connection with the utility's
transmission lines.
SUN GLINT: The reflection of sunlight off of a surface of the solar panels or
collector structure of solar energy systems and blades, tower, or other
component of the wind energy system.
SYSTEM HEIGHT: The distance from the established grade level directly below the
renewable energy system to the highest point of the renewable energy system,
including the highest reach of the blades of any WES.
TOWER: The structure on which the wind system or solar system is mounted.
TURBINE: The parts of a WES including the blades, nacelle and tail.
VERTICAL AXIS WIND TURBINE (VAWT): A small scale wind turbine, in which the
main rotor shaft is arranged vertically creating an "eggbeater" appearance. The
generator and gearbox are located near the ground so the tower does not have to
support it and it is more accessible for maintenance.
WATT (Symbol: W): A derived unit of power in the international system of units
(SI). It measures rate of energy conversion. One watt is equivalent to one
joule (J) of energy per second. The kilowatt (symbol: kW) is equal to one
thousand (1,000) watts. The megawatt (symbol: MW) is equal to one million
(1,000,000) watts.
WIND ENERGY SYSTEM (WES): A wind energy production, conversion and distribution
system consisting of a wind turbine, tower, and associated electronics
equipment. In other publications this is known as wind energy conversion system
(WECS). (Ord. 2013-O-03, 4-1-2013)
11-12-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING MOUNTED WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (BWES):
   A.   Project Proposal:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of owner and/or applicant.
      2.   Address and legal description of participating property.
      3.   Project summary including the manufacturer information and number of
proposed turbines.
      4.   Photos of the proposed location of BWES, including preinstallation
conditions.
      5.   A front elevation depiction of the building showing location and
proposed height of the top of the vaned or vertical axis turbine from the top
of the building.
   B.   Zoning Districts:
      1.   One BWES turbine unit and mounting equipment is permitted on any
zoned lot in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, SR or HD districts containing a detached
single-family dwelling or a public/community building.
      2.   More than one BWES turbine unit and mounting equipment requires a
special use permit on any zoned lot in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, SR or HD
districts containing a detached single-family dwelling or a public/community
building.
      3.   One or more BWES turbine unit and mounting equipment shall require a
special use permit on any zoned lot in the R-5 district containing a
residential building of ten (10) or more dwelling units or a public/community
building.
   C.   Conformance With Approved Application And Plans:
      1.   If a special use permit is required, the owner shall construct the
BWES project in substantial accordance with submitted special use permit
application and all accompanying documents.
      2.   The owner shall be bound by any and all proposals and
representations made under oath at the public hearing before Pingree Grove
village board, which shall be considered supplementary conditions of the
special use permit granted by Pingree Grove village board, even if not directly
specified in the special use permit.
   D.   Engineering:
      1.   Manufacturer's engineering specifications of the turbine, nameplate
wattage capacity, dimensions of the turbine unit, mounting mechanisms, expected
load and expected sound level production that must fit within the sound level
standards below.
      2.   All BWES facilities shall be designed to withstand a minimum wind
velocity of one hundred (100) miles per hour, with an impact pressure of forty
(40) pounds per square foot.
      3.   Each BWES shall conform to applicable industry standards, including
those of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Applicants shall
submit certificates of design compliance that equipment manufacturers have
obtained from Underwriters Laboratories (UL), National Renewable Energy
Laboratories (NREL), Det Norske Veritas (DNV), Germanischer Lloyd Wind Energie
(GL), or an equivalent third party.
   E.   Braking Systems:
      1.   BWES facilities shall be equipped with automatic and manual braking
systems.
      2.   The owner shall be capable of immediately ceasing operations as
reasonably requested by Pingree Grove.
   F.   Electric Utility: Approval letter from the local electric utility
company, if the system is to be tied to the energy grid. (Ord. 2013-O-03, 4-1-
2013)
11-12-4: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS (BWES):
   A.   Installation:
      1.   BWES facilities must be installed according to manufacturer
specifications.
      2.   BWES devices may be structurally attached either on the roof or on
the side of a building, in accordance with Pingree Grove building code.
      3.   Electrical connections must be made by a licensed electrician.
   B.   Location And Setbacks:
      1.   BWES attached to the wall of a building are permitted toward the
rear of the building with the minimum rear yard setback of the underlying
zoning district.
      2.   BWES attached to the wall of a building are permitted toward the
interior or street side of the building with the minimum setback being 1.1
times the height of the BWES.
      3.   BWES attached to the wall of buildings are prohibited in front yards
of a lot.
   C.   Height: BWES facilities shall be allowed at the height of fifteen feet
(15') above the highest point of the building structure, but in no case shall
exceed forty five feet (45') above the ground in a residentially zoned
district.
   D.   Sound Levels:
      1.   The average sound level from a BWES shall not exceed fifty five (55)
dBA during daytime hours or forty five (45) dBA during nighttime hours at any
point within neighboring, residentially zoned or used property. For neighboring
industrial properties the sound level limit is sixty five (65) dBA and for
other neighboring nonresidential properties, the sound level limit is sixty
(60) dBA at any time of the day.
      2.   Five (5) dB shall be added to the average sound level from a BWES as
a penalty when its sound emissions have an adverse character that includes
prominent tones (e.g., a humming sound) or an amplitude fluctuation in
synchronicity with the blade revolution (e.g., a periodic swishing sound).
      3.   No BWES shall operate with an average sound level more than five (5)
dBA above the nonoperational ambient level, as measured within any neighboring
residentially zoned or used property.
      4.   To limit the level of low frequency sound, the average C-weighted
sound level during BWES operation shall not exceed the A-weighted ambient sound
level by more than twenty (20) dB.
      5.   Sound level meters used for sound measurement must be a type 2 or
better grade per ANSI S1.4 and must have an integrating feature that meets ANSI
S1.43. Procedures must meet the applicable portions of ANSI S12.9. Measurements
must be made when ground level winds do not exceed five (5) miles per hour.
      6.   Pingree Grove may require, at the owner's expense, field tests or
sound propagation modeling, conducted by or supervised by an acoustics
specialist certified by the Institute Of Noise Control Engineering as may be
necessary, to determine whether a violation of said sound regulations is
occurring or has occurred. The owner shall promptly remedy any such violations
by or discontinue operation.
   E.   Shadow Flicker:
      1.   The BWES shall be sited such that shadow flicker will not fall on
any window of an existing abutting nonparticipating property for more than one
hour a day.
      2.   The applicant may commit to a schedule for turning BWES turbines off
during periods when shadow flicker would affect any nonparticipating dwelling.
      3.   Subsequently constructed or modified residences shall not compromise
the existing approval and operation of the BWES, as a legal nonconforming use,
subject to the applicable regulations.
   F.   Silhouette:
      1.   The diameter of the BWES shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of
the width of the building's front elevation, for residential buildings and
nonresidential buildings abutting residentially used properties.
      2.   The diameter of the BWES shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
width of a nonresidential building, not abutting residentially used properties.
   G.   Color And Sun Glint: BWES facilities shall be finished in a neutral
color, as approved by Pingree Grove building official. The finish shall be flat
or matte, so as to reduce incidence of sun glint. The required coloration and
finish shall be maintained throughout the life of the system.
   H.   Electronic Interference: BWES facilities shall not operate so as to
cause electromagnetic degradation in performance of microwave, television,
radio, internet or other wireless transmissions, including public emergency
communications systems, contrary to federal communications commission (FCC) or
other state or local laws.
   I.   Signage: No BWES shall have any advertising material, writing, picture,
or signage, other than warning information or manufacturer identification.
(Ord. 2013-O-03, 4-1-2013)
11-12-5: MAINTENANCE, COMPLAINTS AND DECOMMISSIONING (BWES):
   A.   Maintenance And Complaints:
      1.   BWES facilities shall be maintained in operational condition at all
times, except for reasonable maintenance and repair outages.
      2.   Should a BWES become inoperable, or should any part of the BWES
become damaged, or should a BWES violate a permit condition, the owner shall
cease operations immediately and remedy the condition promptly.
   B.   Decommissioning Plan:
      1.   Any BWES that has not been in operable condition within the above
time frame, Pingree Grove building official shall notify the owner of the
finding of abandonment. The owner shall remove all BWES structures within
ninety (90) days of receipt of the finding of abandonment.
      2.   If such abandoned facility is not removed within ninety (90) days,
Pingree Grove may remove all structures at the owner's expense. In the case of
such removal Pingree Grove has the right to file a lien for reimbursement, or
any and all expenses incurred by Pingree Grove without limitation, including
attorney fees and accrued interest.
      3.   Upon removal, the site shall be restored to its original
preconstruction condition. See photos presented with project proposal. (Ord.
2013-O-03, 4-1-2013)
11-12-6: HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND LANDMARKS (BWES):
BWES facilities within five hundred feet (500') of the local historic district
or landmark or a national historic district or landmark must receive a
recommendation from the historical and architectural sites commission that may
be in place prior to submitting an application to the Pingree Grove board.
(Ord. 2013-O-03, 4-1-2013)
11-12-7: REQUIREMENTS FOR SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (SWES):
   A.   Project Proposal:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of owner and/or applicant.
      2.   Address and legal description of participating property.
      3.   Photos of existing conditions for proposed SWES tower site(s) prior
to installation.
      4.   Project summary including the manufacturer information, number of
proposed turbines, and proposed height to the top of the turbine.
   B.   Zoning Districts:
      1.   One SWES turbine unit and mounting equipment shall require a special
use permit on any zoned lot in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, SR or HD districts
containing a detached single-family dwelling.
      2.   One or more SWES turbine unit and mounting equipment shall require a
special use permit on any zoned lot in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, SR or HD
districts containing a public/community use.
   C.   Conformance With Approved Application And Plans:
      1.   The owner shall construct the SWES project in substantial accordance
with submitted special use permit application and all accompanying documents.
      2.   The owner shall be bound by any and all proposals and
representations made under oath at the public hearing before Pingree Grove
village board, which shall be considered supplementary conditions of the
special use permit granted by Pingree Grove village board, even if not directly
specified in the special use permit.
      3.   Following the granting of a special use permit, a professional
structural engineer shall certify, as part of the final approval that the
foundation and tower design of the SWES is within accepted professional
standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
   D.   Engineering:
      1.   Manufacturer's engineering specifications of the tower, turbine and
foundation, detailed drawing of electrical components and installation details,
and expected sound level production (see sound level standards below).
      2.   For turbines greater than twenty (20) kW of nameplate capacity, an
Illinois licensed structural engineer's seal shall be required.
      3.   All SWES facilities shall be designed to withstand a minimum wind
velocity of one hundred (100) miles per hour, with an impact pressure of forty
(40) pounds per square foot.
      4.   Each SWES shall conform to applicable industry standards, including
those of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Applicants shall
submit certificates of design compliance that equipment manufacturers have
obtained from Underwriters Laboratories (UL), National Renewable Energy
Laboratories (NREL), Det Norske Veritas (DNV), Germanischer Lloyd Wind Energie
(GL), or an equivalent third party.
      5.   All electrical wires and lines connecting each facility shall be
installed underground. To reduce potential bird perching and nesting, towers
shall consist of enclosed tubular structures with a monopole pointed tops
(unless other mitigation strategies are employed), rather than a lattice
structures. External platforms and ladders shall not be permitted on towers,
without appropriate mitigation. External platforms/landings and ladders shall
not be permitted on towers, unless mitigation strategies to avoid bird roosting
or nesting are employed.
   E.   Braking Systems:
      1.   SWES facilities shall be equipped with automatic and manual braking
systems.
      2.   The owner shall be capable of immediately ceasing operations as
reasonably requested by Pingree Grove.
   F.   Soil Studies: Turbines greater than one hundred feet (100') total
height or greater than five thousand (5,000) pounds' structural weight shall
require a soil analysis at base of the tower and a stamped drawing by an
Illinois licensed structural engineer. Structural weight shall be defined as
the tower, wind turbine generator, and any other component(s) otherwise
supported by the base foundation.
   G.   Insurance:
      1.   The applicant shall provide proof of a current general liability
policy covering bodily injury and property damage with limits of at least one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) in the aggregate at the time of the use permit application and
at the annual renewal.
      2.   The amount of coverage may be changed upon consultation with the
attorney representing Pingree Grove.
   H.   Electric Utility: Approval letter from the local electric utility
company, if the system is to be tied to the energy grid. (Ord. 2013-O-03, 4-1-
2013)
11-12-8: SITE PLANNING AND SITE CAPACITY (SWES):
   A.   Site Plan, Drawn To Scale, Including:
      1.   Existing and proposed contours, at a minimum of two foot (2')
intervals.
      2.   Location, setbacks, exterior dimensions and square footage of all
structures on the owner's property and abutting properties within one hundred
feet (100').
      3.   Location and size of existing waterways, wetlands, 100-year
floodplains, sanitary sewers, field drain tiles, storm sewer systems, and water
distribution systems.
      4.   Location of any overhead or underground power lines and utility
easements.
      5.   The locations and the expected duration of shadow flicker caused by
the SWES facility.
      6.   For an SWES facility proposed with a height of over seventy five
feet (75'), within one and a half (1.5) miles of Kane County forest preserve
district, Illinois State Park, Illinois Nature Preserve, or Illinois natural
area inventory lands, Pingree Grove will provide notice to and solicit comments
from the appropriate agency(ies). Pingree Grove may require the applicant to
develop and implement an environmental plan that adequately mitigates or
eliminates any potentially adverse impacts, identified through consultations,
comments from noticed parties, and environmental studies. Applicants for small
wind energy are encouraged to work with the Kane County soil and water
conservation district, the Illinois department of natural resources and U.S.
fish and wildlife service to initiate natural resource reviews in order to
identify potential environmental issues before submitting the application. The
Illinois department of natural resources and U.S. fish and wildlife service may
request a thorough wildlife study evaluating the potential impact of the
proposed construction and operation of a small wind energy facility on any
species of concern or high quality wildlife habitat on or near the subject
property.
   B.   Location: SWES facilities located on lots with detached single-family
dwelling units shall be located toward the rear or side of buildings. SWES
facilities are prohibited to be located toward the front yard area of any lot.
   C.   Setbacks:
      1.   Setbacks shall be measured from the base of the SWES tower.
      2.   SWES facilities may not be constructed within or over (including the
blades) any utility, water, sewer, or other type of recorded easement.
      3.   SWES facilities may not be constructed within fifty feet (50') of
all water bodies and wetlands and one hundred feet (100') of high quality
aquatic resources.
      4.   SWES facilities shall be set back a distance equal to one hundred
ten percent (110%), or 1.1 times the system height, from base to all property
lines, third party transmission lines, and communication towers.
      5.   The blade tip, at its lowest point, shall have ground clearance of
not less than fifteen feet (15').
      6.   Guywires and anchoring systems shall not extend closer than thirty
feet (30') from the property line or public right of way.
   D.   Height:
      1.   SWES facilities shall be limited in height as noted in the table
below. Rezonings and subsequently constructed residences shall not compromise
the existing approval and operation of the SWES, as a legal nonconforming use,
subject to the applicable regulations. SWES facilities exceeding these limits
shall be considered large wind energy systems (LWES) and regulated under
section
11-12-12 of this chapter.
 
Residentially Zoned Property Size SWES System Maximum Height
Under 1 acre                      45 feet
1 - 5 acres                       75 feet
Over 5 acres                      125 feet
 
   E.   Accessory Use:
      1.   The primary purpose of the SWES shall be the production of energy
for local distribution and consumption.
      2.   SWES facilities shall not be constructed for the sole purpose of
energy production for wholesale or retail sale purposes.
      3.   It is permissible to sell excess energy that is produced by an SWES
to the local electric utility company. (Ord. 2013-O-03, 4-1-2013)
11-12-9: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS (SWES):
   A.   Installation:
      1.   SWES facilities must be installed according to manufacturer
specifications.
      2.   Electrical connections must be made by a licensed electrician.
   B.   Sound Levels:
      1.   The average sound level from an SWES shall not exceed fifty five
(55) dBA during daytime hours or forty five (45) dBA during nighttime hours at
any point within neighboring, residentially zoned or used property. For
neighboring industrial properties the sound level limit is sixty five (65) dBA
and for other neighboring nonresidential properties, the sound level limit is
sixty (60) dBA at any time of the day.
      2.   Five (5) dB shall be added to the average sound level from an SWES
as a penalty when its sound emissions have an adverse character that includes
prominent tones (e.g., a humming sound) or an amplitude fluctuation in
synchronicity with the blade revolution (e.g., a periodic swishing sound).
      3.   No SWES shall operate with an average sound level more than five (5)
dBA above the nonoperational ambient level, as measured within any neighboring
residentially zoned or used property.
      4.   To limit the level of low frequency sound, the average C-weighted
sound level during SWES operation shall not exceed the A-weighted ambient sound
level by more than twenty (20) dB.
      5.   Sound level meters used for sound measurement must be a type 2 or
better grade per ANSI S1.4 and must have an integrating feature that meets ANSI
S1.43. Procedures must meet the applicable portions of ANSI S12.9. Measurements
must be made when ground level winds do not exceed five (5) miles per hour.
      6.   Pingree Grove may require, at the owner's expense, field tests or
sound propagation modeling, conducted or supervised by an acoustics specialist
certified by the Institute Of Noise Control Engineering as may be necessary, to
determine whether a violation of said sound regulations is occurring or has
occurred. The owner shall promptly remedy any such violations by or discontinue
operation.
   C.   Shadow Flicker:
      1.   The SWES facility shall be sited such that shadow flicker will not
fall on any existing nonparticipating property within five hundred feet (500')
of the SWES property for more than one hour a day.
      2.   The applicant may commit to a schedule for turning SWES turbines off
during periods when shadow flicker would affect any nonparticipating building.
      3.   Subsequently constructed or modified residences shall not compromise
the existing approval and operation of the SWES, as a legal nonconforming use,
subject to the applicable regulations.
   D.   Color And Sun Glint:
      1.   SWES facilities shall be finished in either off white, light gray,
other neutral color, or a color as approved by Pingree Grove building official.
      2.   The finish shall be flat or matte, so as to reduce incidence of sun
glint.
      3.   The required coloration and finish shall be maintained throughout
the life of the system.
   E.   Electronic Interference: SWES facilities shall not operate so as to
cause electromagnetic degradation in performance of microwave, television,
radio, internet or other wireless transmissions, including public emergency
communications systems, contrary to federal communications commission (FCC) or
other state or local laws.
   F.   Signage:
      1.   No SWES shall have any advertising material, writing, picture, or
signage other than warning, turbine tower identification, or manufacturer or
ownership information.
      2.   This prohibition shall include the attachment of any flag,
decorative sign, streamers, pennants, ribbons, spinners or waiving, fluttering
or revolving devices, but not including meteorological/weather devices or bird
flight diverters on guywires.
      3.   One warning sign, no less than eighteen (18) square inches and no
greater than two (2) square feet in area, shall be posted at the base of the
tower. The sign shall include a notice of no trespassing, a warning of high
voltage, and 911 and the phone number of the owner to call in case of
emergency.
      4.   Manufacturer's identification or ownership information signs shall
be no larger than one square foot.
   G.   Climb Prevention: The base of the tower shall not be climbable for a
vertical distance of fifteen feet (15') from the base, unless enclosed with an
eight feet (8') tall locked fence.
   H.   Lighting:
      1.   SWES facilities shall comply with all applicable federal aviation
administration (FAA) and any other federal, state or local requirements.
      2.   SWES facilities shall not be artificially lighted unless required by
the FAA or appropriate authority.
      3.   Any required lighting shall be shielded so that no glare extends
substantially beyond the boundaries of the facility.
      4.   To reduce potential wildlife impacts, the facility should employ
only red, or dual red and white strobe, strobelike, or flashing lights, not
steady burning lights to meet FAA requirements for visibility lighting of wind
turbines, permanent meteorological towers, and communication towers.
   I.   Coordination With Local Fire Department:
      1.   SWES operators shall provide emergency services access to the
facility twenty four (24) hours a day, and all drives and access points shall
remain unobstructed at all times.
      2.   The applicant shall submit a copy of the site plan to the local fire
protection district.
      3.   Upon request by the local fire department, the owner shall cooperate
with the local fire department to develop the fire department's emergency
response plan.
      4.   Nothing in this section shall alleviate the need to comply with all
other applicable fire, life safety and/or emergency response laws and
regulations.
   J.   Stormwater And Drainage:
      1.   The applicant/owner shall design and install all necessary
stormwater facilities as required by the Kane County regulations pertaining to
stormwater management.
      2.   The owner shall repair any and all field drain tiles or other
drainage and stormwater structures damaged by the construction or installation
of the SWES at their own expense.
      3.   The owner shall maintain any and all drainage and stormwater systems
on the subject property and keep them in good working order.
   K.   Wind Study And Met Towers:
      1.   Pingree Grove may allow the construction and/or installation of a
met tower for the sole purpose of collecting wind generation data.
      2.   The applicant shall provide summary documentation of research and
study that clearly demonstrates that the site has sufficient wind resources to
be economically beneficial.
      3.   Met towers shall be limited to no more than one per square quarter
mile.
      4.   Met towers must be dismantled within three (3) years of their
installation.
      5.   The removal of the met towers shall coincide with the
decommissioning plan.
      6.   If met towers are to use guywires, bird flight diverters or high
visibility marking devices must be used. (Ord. 2013-O-03, 4-1-2013)
11-12-10: MAINTENANCE, COMPLAINTS AND DECOMMISSIONING (SWES):
   A.   Maintenance And Complaints:
      1.   SWES facilities shall be maintained in operational condition at all
times, except for reasonable maintenance and repair outages.
      2.   Should an SWES become inoperable, or should any part of the SWES
become damaged, or should an SWES violate a permit condition, the owner shall
cease operations immediately and remedy the condition promptly.
   B.   Decommissioning Plan:
      1.   Any SWES that has not been in operable condition within the above
time frame, Pingree Grove building official shall notify the owner of the
finding of abandonment. The owner shall remove all SWES structures within
ninety (90) days of receipt of notice.
      2.   If such abandoned facility is not removed within ninety (90) days,
Pingree Grove may remove all structures at the owner's expense. In the case of
such removal Pingree Grove has the right to file a lien for reimbursement, for
any and all expenses incurred by the Pingree Grove without limitation,
including attorney fees and accrued interest.
      3.   Upon removal, the site shall be restored to its original
preconstruction condition. See photos presented with project proposal. (Ord.
2013-O-03, 4-1-2013)
11-12-11: HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND LANDMARKS (SWES):
SWES facilities within five hundred feet (500') of the local historic district
or landmark or a national historic district or landmark must receive a
recommendation from the historical and architectural sites commission that may
exist at the time prior to submitting an application to the Pingree Grove
board. (Ord. 2013-O-03, 4-1-2013)
11-12-12: LARGE WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (LWES):
   A.   Prohibited: Large wind energy systems are prohibited for installation
in the village of Pingree Grove. (Ord. 2013-O-03, 4-1-2013)
11-12-13: REQUIREMENTS FOR SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (SES):
   A.   General Information:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of owner and/or applicant;
      2.   Address and legal description of participating property;
      3.   Locations, setbacks, and exterior dimensions of all structures on
the subject site and properties within one hundred feet (100') of the proposed
installation;
      4.   Location and size of all easements;
      5.   Location of any overhead utility lines;
      6.   Location of landscaping;
      7.   Location of pedestrian walkways;
      8.   Areas subject to flooding based upon the most recently available
flood insurance rate maps prepared by the federal emergency management agency;
      9.   Manufacturer's engineering specifications, including scaled
illustrations of proposed facilities and appurtenances;
      10.   Plans for roof installations showing existing and proposed
structural elements signed and sealed by an architect licensed in the state of
Illinois for roof mounted solar systems demonstrating the structural support
for the solar system;
      11.   Plans for tower and foundation shall be signed and sealed by a
structural engineer licensed in the state of Illinois for freestanding SES;
      12.   Detailed drawings of electrical components as supplied by the
manufacturer and installation details to conform to the national electrical
code;
      13.   Photos of the proposed location of BSES, including preinstallation
conditions.
   B.   Zoning Districts:
      1.   Building mounted solar energy systems shall be permitted on
principal and accessory structures of any zoned lot in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
SR or HD districts containing a single-family detached dwelling or community/
public building.
      2.   Building mounted solar energy systems shall be permitted on
principal and accessory structures of any zoned lot in the R-5 district
containing a community/public building or use.
      3.   Building mounted solar energy systems shall require a special use
permit on principal or accessory structures of any zoned lot in the R-
5 district containing any building or use other than a community/public
building or use.
      4.   One freestanding solar energy system is allowed and shall require a
special use permit on any zoned lot in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, SR or HD
districts containing a single-family detached dwelling or community/public
building.
   C.   Conformance With Approved Application And Plans:
      1.   If a special use permit is required, the owner shall construct the
solar energy system project in substantial accordance with submitted special
use permit application and all accompanying documents.
      2.   The owner shall be bound by any and all proposals and
representations made under oath at the public hearing before Pingree Grove
village board, which shall be considered supplementary conditions of the
special use permit granted by Pingree Grove village board, even if not directly
specified in the special use permit.
   D.   Roof Coverage:
      1.   For pitched roof structures, building mounted solar energy systems
are permitted to cover up to fifty percent (50%) the surface area of the roof.
Any coverage over fifty percent (50%) shall require a special use permit.
      2.   For flat roof structures, building mounted solar energy systems are
not restricted to any coverage limit provided the systems do not extend above
the height of the roof or the parapet wall, whichever is higher.
   E.   Height:
      1.   Building Mounted Solar Energy System: A building mounted solar
energy system may have a maximum height of the same as that of the building to
which it is attached. A building mounted solar energy system may extend a
maximum of five feet (5') above the roof height of the building to which it is
attached with a special use permit.
      2.   Freestanding Solar Energy System: The maximum height of a
freestanding solar energy system shall be eighteen feet (18') as measured from
the average grade at the base of the pole to the highest edge of the system.
   F.   Location And Setbacks:
      1.   Building Mounted Solar Energy Systems: A building mounted solar
energy system may be affixed to the roof of any principal or accessory
structure, and must be located at least two feet (2') from a public walkway.
      2.   Freestanding Solar Energy Systems:
         a.   Shall not be located within the required front yard or toward the
front yard of a lot;
         b.   Shall not be located in areas subject to flooding based upon the
most recently available flood insurance rate maps prepared by the federal
emergency management agency;
         c.   Shall be set back at least five feet (5') from the interior side
and rear yard property lines;
         d.   Shall be set back at least the same distance as the required
setback of the underlying zoning district from a corner side yard property
line;
         e.   Shall not be located over any utility, water, sewer, or other
type of easement.
   G.   Sun Glint: Panels or concentrating solar power arrays shall be arrayed
or otherwise configured in a manner so as to not create sun glint into windows
of adjacent properties.
   H.   Insurance: Proof of homeowner or business liability insurance, as
determined to be appropriate by the village attorney.
   I.   Decommissioning Plan:
      1.   Any SES that has not been in operable condition, Pingree Grove
building official shall notify the owner of the finding of abandonment. The
owner shall remove all SES structures within ninety (90) days of receipt of the
finding of abandonment.
      2.   If such abandoned facility is not removed within ninety (90) days,
Pingree Grove may remove all structures at the owner's expense. In the case of
such removal Pingree Grove has the right to file a lien for reimbursement, or
any and all expenses incurred by Pingree Grove without limitation, including
attorney fees and accrued interest.
      3.   Upon removal, the site shall be restored to its original
preconstruction condition. See photos presented with project proposal. (Ord.
2013-O-03, 4-1-2013)
11-12-14: GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Zoning District: Geothermal energy systems shall be permitted in any
zoning district provided the facilities are located entirely within the
boundaries of the lot record for the building or structure to which they serve
and meet all applicable Pingree Grove and other oversight agencies building and
engineering codes and standards. (Ord. 2013-O-03, 4-1-2013)
11-12-15: INDEMNIFICATION:
The owner of the SES, BWES, SWES, and geothermal energy system project shall
defend, indemnify and hold harmless Pingree Grove and their officials from and
against any and all claims, demands, losses, suits, causes of action, damages,
injuries, costs, expenses and liabilities whatsoever including attorney fees
arising out of the acts or omissions of the owner concerning the operation of
the project without limitation, whether said liability is premised on contract
or on tort. (Ord. 2013-O-03, 4-1-2013)
11-12-16: PREEMPTION:
The provisions of this chapter shall be inapplicable in any location within the
village of Pingree Grove where they are preempted by the requirements of an
annexation agreement or amendment thereto during the term of such agreement.
(Ord. 2013-O-03, 4-1-2013)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Jurisdiction
12-1-2: Approvals, Interpretations And Exceptions
12-1-3: Definitions
12-1-4: Penalty
12-1-1: JURISDICTION:
   A.   Wherever any subdivision of land shall hereinafter be laid out within
the incorporated limits of the village or contiguous territory not more than
one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the incorporated boundaries of the
village, the subdivider thereof, or his agent, shall submit both a preliminary
and a final subdivision plat to the village as defined in section
12-1-3 of this chapter. Said plans, proposed improvements, and all procedures
relating thereto shall, in all respects, be in full compliance with the
regulations of this title and the design standards contained herein. (Ord.
2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   All lands as part of a subdivision offered to the village for use as
streets, highways, alleys, parks and other public use shall be referred to the
village planning and zoning commission for review and recommendation before
being accepted by the village board or by any other governing authority. (Ord.
2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-1-2: APPROVALS, INTERPRETATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No land shall, after the effective date hereof, be subdivided or filed
for record, nor any street laid out, nor any improvements made to the land,
until the plan or plans of the subdivision or street improvements shall have
been certified to and approved by action of the village board. This approval
must be in writing and placed on the original tracing of the final plat,
according to the procedure outlined in chapter 2 of this title.
   B.   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any such subdivision shall be
offered for sale, nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or
given until such subdivision plat has been approved by the village board.
   C.   No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater drainage,
sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service or lighting, or grading,
paving or surfacing of streets, shall hereafter be made within any such
subdivision by any owner or owners or his or their agent, or by any public
service corporation at the request of such owner or owners or his or their
agent, until the plat for the subdivision and the plans for improvements
thereto have been formally recommended by the planning and zoning commission
and approved by the village board.
   D.   Subdivisions of land lying outside of the village and within one and
one-half (11/2) miles of the village limits shall also be required to conform
with the requirements of this title, in accordance with the provisions of the
revised cities and villages act of the state of Illinois 1 .
   E.   All interpretations of these rules and regulations are reserved to the
administrative bodies referred to herein.
   F.   The village board may vary and make exceptions as set forth herein in
instances where there is sufficient evidence, in its opinion, or hardship
caused by the topographic conditions, or where any other reasonable deterrents
prevail.
   G.   Whenever a parcel is divided into lots containing one to three (3)
acres, inclusive, and there are indications that such lots will eventually be
resubdivided into smaller building lots, consideration shall be given to the
street and lot arrangement of the original subdivision so that additional minor
streets can be opened which will permit a logical arrangement of smaller lots.
   H.   Because of their potential impact on the comprehensive plan of the
village, planned unit developments, as defined in the zoning title, are
considered subdivisions and shall be subject to the standards of this title
whether the PUD is in the corporate limits of the village or within the
extraterritorial one and one-half (11/2) mile planning jurisdiction of the
village. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS.
12-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ALLEY: A strip of land, not less than twenty feet (20') in width and not more
than thirty feet (30') in width along the side or in the rear of properties,
intended to provide access to these properties. A sixteen foot (16') alley may
be considered for a one-way alley.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or in lieu of street or streets, by
public parks, cemeteries, and railroad rights of way, the centerlines of lakes
or streams, or a corporate line of the village.
BUILDING LINE: A line or lines on the horizontal surface of a lot, parallel or
nearly parallel to the front, side and rear lot lines and located at a distance
prescribed by the yard regulation of the zoning title beyond which no portion
of a principal building may extend except as provided by the zoning title.
COLLECTOR STREETS: Those streets carrying between one thousand (1,000) and five
thousand (5,000) vehicles per day that collect and distribute traffic between
the arterial street system and local streets. Collector streets may occur in
residential, industrial or commercial areas, and their design will vary
depending upon which of these areas they are in.
COMMERCIAL AREA: An area predominantly used or zoned for retail sales or
services or office development. "Retail sales development" means any building
or property used for selling goods or merchandise to the general public for
personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the sale
of such goods. "Retail services development" means providing services or
entertainment, as opposed to products, to the general public for personal or
household use, including eating and drinking places; hotels and motels;
finance, real estate and insurance; personal service; motion pictures;
amusement and recreation services; health, education and social services;
museums and galleries. "Office development" means a building used primarily for
conducting the affairs of a business, profession, service, industry or
government, or like activity, and may include ancillary services for office
workers, such as a restaurant, coffee shop, newspaper or candy stand, and
childcare facility.
CONDUIT: A buried pipe for the installation of wires or cables or the
conveyance of gas, water, stormwater or sewage.
CONTRACTOR: An individual, company, firm or other party or organization who
contracts to physically construct all or a portion of a project for either a
subdivider or the village.
CRADLE: Bedding placed under and around a conduit for proper support.
CROSSWALK: A strip of land dedicated to public use, which is reserved across a
block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and being permanently terminated by a
vehicle turnaround.
DESIGN ENGINEER: The individual or firm retained by the subdivider who is
responsible for the design and preparation of construction documents for a
project.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip or parcel of land
by the general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons for a
specific purpose or purposes.
FIELD INSPECTOR: An individual, company or firm appointed by the village to
observe construction for compliance with approved drawings and specifications.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A local street which is parallel and adjacent to an arterial or
expressway, and which provides access to abutting properties and protection to
local traffic from through traffic on the arterial or expressway.
INDUSTRIAL AREA: An area predominantly used or zoned for industrial
development. "Industrial development" means any building or property used for
the assembly, fabrication, or processing of goods and materials, or lot where
such activity takes place, or the indoor or outdoor storage of goods and
materials, or research laboratories that are designed and equipped for basic or
applied research or experimental study, testing, or analysis in the natural
sciences or engineering, including any educational activities associated with
and accessory to such research, and may include ancillary services for the
conduct of the affairs of the business such as offices and childcare
facilities.
LIVE STORAGE: That volume available in a reservoir for holding stormwater in
accordance with the requirements of the design standards of this title.
LOCAL STREETS: Those having limited continuity and carrying up to one thousand
(1,000) vehicles per day which are used primarily for access to abutting
properties, or to meet the local traffic flow needs of a neighborhood or
community.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for transfer
of ownership or for building development.
MAJOR ARTERIAL: A street for interurban continuity or regional importance that
provides reasonably continuous routes through the whole or major portion of the
village, or any street which carries a volume greater than twelve thousand
(12,000) vehicles per day.
PARKWAY: That area of a street right of way between the back of the curb or
pavement edge and the right of way line intended for use primarily by
pedestrian traffic and developed in a parklike character.
PLAT, FINAL: The final survey and engineering maps, drawings, and supporting
material indicating the subdivider's plan of the subdivision which, if
approved, may be filed with the county recorder of deeds.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: The preliminary survey and engineering maps, drawings, and
supportive material indicating the proposed layout of a subdivision.
RECORD DRAWINGS: Design drawings checked in the field and which are revised to
show as constructed location, elevation grading and specification of material
for improvements and utilities.
RELEASE RATE: The controlled rate at which stormwater is released from a
holding reservoir.
RESIDENTIAL AREA: An area predominantly used or zoned for residential
development. "Residential development" means any detached single-family
dwelling, townhouse or attached single- family dwelling, or multiple-family
dwelling, or residential care facility.
SECONDARY ARTERIAL: Those streets carrying between five thousand (5,000) and
twelve thousand (12,000) vehicles per day that interconnect and augment the
major arterials. Secondary arterials serve major traffic flows between various
activity centers and districts within the village and can also connect directly
to the system of existing township and farm roads around the village.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The most current edition of the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", state of Illinois department
of transportation, which may be used in conjunction with the specifications of
the village.
STORMWATER DETENTION BASIN: A reservoir for the temporary storage of
stormwater.
STREET: An area of land which serves or is intended to serve as a vehicular and
pedestrian access to abutting lands or to other streets.
STREET, PUBLIC: All primary, secondary and minor streets which are shown on the
subdivision plat and are to be dedicated for public use.
STREET ROW: The shortest distance between the lines of lots delineating the
public street.
SUBDIVIDER: The person or persons responsible for preparing and recording the
plats of the subdivision and for carrying out these requirements. The term
"developer" may be used interchangeably with subdivider for the purposes of
this title.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two (2) or
more lots, parcels or other divisions of land, or a resubdivision of a lot, for
the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building
development, including all changes in street or lot lines; provided, however,
that a division of land for agricultural purposes, in parcels of more than five
(5) acres, not involving any street or easement of access, shall be exempted.
SWALE: A ditch or surface drainage channel meeting certain specific criteria as
established herein for the movement of stormwater over a land surface.
URBANIZED AREA: Any area within the village, other than those areas zoned R-
1 and R-2, where curbs and gutters are present.
VILLAGE: The village of Pingree Grove and its area of jurisdiction.
VILLAGE BOARD: The president and board of trustees of the village of Pingree
Grove.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The individual or firm appointed or contracted by the village
who is licensed to practice professional engineering in the state of Illinois
and is responsible for reviewing subdivision plans on behalf of the village,
recommends changes from time to time to the design standards of this title and
performs other duties as directed by village ordinance.
VILLAGE PLAN: Reference to "comprehensive plan" or "village plan" shall mean
the comprehensive plan of the village of Pingree Grove, as approved by the
planning and zoning commission and adopted by the president and board of
trustees of the village of Pingree Grove.
WATER SYSTEM, LOOPED: A system of water distribution mains whereby a water
service and/or fire hydrant can receive water from the main from either
direction.
WATERSHED: That land area from which all runoff from rainfall would eventually
reach the point in question by flowing over the surface of the ground or
through existing improvements.
WETLANDS: Those transitional lands between terrestrial and aquatic systems near
where the water table is usually at or near the surface, or the land is covered
by shallow water. Classification of areas as wetlands shall follow the
"Classification Of Wetlands And Deepwater Habitats Of The United States" as
published by the U.S. fish and wildlife service. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who constructs any public improvement or
portion thereof in violation of the provisions of this title shall be, upon
conviction, fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-2-1: Preliminary Plat
12-2-2: Final Plat
12-2-3: Agreements; Indemnification
12-2-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Filing; Fee:
      1.   Any owner of land which is within the corporate limits of the
village or within one and one-half (11/2) miles of such corporate limits on
unincorporated land, wishing to develop as a PUD, or divide the same into
building lots for the purpose of sale or assessment, or both, or wishing to
dedicate streets, alleys or other lands for public use, shall first file with
the village copies of a preliminary plat and preliminary engineering sufficient
in number to meet the current review needs of the village. The subdivider shall
also file sufficient copies of the preliminary plat and preliminary engineering
to the school district, fire district, and library district. Said preliminary
plat shall be filed for all the land held in ownership or controlled by the
subdivider.
      2.   The fee for filing preliminary plats shall be an initial fee of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Such fee shall be paid by the subdivider to
the village at the time of filing the preliminary plat with the village. An
additional fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per lot shall be due upon approval of
the final plat.
   B.   Contents: The preliminary plat shall contain the following:
      1.   Proposed name of the subdivision.
      2.   Location by township, section, town and range, or by other legal
description.
      3.   A location map showing the subdivision, impacted schools, and
existing or adjacent park areas.
      4.   Names and addresses of the developer and surveyor and design
professional who made the plat.
      5.   Scale of plat, one inch to one hundred feet (1"=100') or larger.
Tracts of two hundred (200) acres or more may be drawn at a scale of one inch
to two hundred feet (1"=200').
      6.   Date.
      7.   North point.
      8.   Elevations. USGS datum shall be used.
      9.   Floodplain designation.
      10.   Boundary line by bearing and length of proposed subdivision shall
be clearly indicated and the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby.
      11.   Location, widths, and names of all existing or prior platted
streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights of way, parks and
other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, houses or
permanent easements, and section and corporation lines, within or adjacent to
the tract.
      12.   Existing and proposed off site improvements appurtenant to the
development including, but not limited to, sewers, water mains, culverts or
other underground facilities within the tract, indicating pipe sizes, manholes
and location.
      13.   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided and subdivided
lands.
      14.   Existing zoning of proposed subdivision and adjacent tracts in
zoned areas.
      15.   Contours at two foot (2') intervals; except, where the average
slope is less than five percent (5%), one foot (1') contour intervals.
      16.   Layout of streets, widths of rights of way and pavement, and also
the widths of crosswalk ways and easements.
      17.   Layout, numbers, areas and dimensions of lots.
      18.   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use or set aside for use of property owners in the subdivision.
      19.   Building setback lines, showing dimensions.
      20.   Easements shall be provided for any and all public utilities where
alleys are not provided. Proper continuity for the utilities from block to
block shall be maintained. Drainage easements shall be indicated and declared
on the preliminary plat.
      21.   A preliminary stormwater management plan should be presented
indicating an emergency overflow routing, detention areas showing preliminary
size and depth, and ownership and maintenance responsibilities for the
detention areas. Soil borings may be required when it is determined by the
village engineer that questionable soils or groundwater levels exist.
Designation of any wetland, as defined by the U.S. army corps of engineers,
shall also be verified and addressed.
      22.   The assessed value of the property.
      23.   A list of all endangered flora and fauna found on the proposed site
as identified by the Illinois department of conservation pursuant to the
endangered species protection act.
      24.   A natural resource inventory.
   C.   Planning And Zoning Commission Recommendations: The planning and zoning
commission shall, within ninety (90) days of the village determination that a
complete petition for approval of preliminary plat of subdivision has been
received by the village, submit its written recommendation for approval or
disapproval of said petition to the village board unless an extension of time
is agreed to by the owner, subdivider or agent.
   D.   Qualifications For Approval: The following qualifications shall govern
approval of the preliminary plat:
      1.   Tentative Approval: The approval of the preliminary plat by the
planning and zoning commission and the village board is tentative only,
involving merely the general acceptability of the layout as submitted.
      2.   Revisions: The village board may require such changes or revisions
as are deemed necessary in the interest and needs of the community.
      3.   Subsequent Approvals: Subsequent approval will be required of the
engineering proposals pertaining to water supply, storm drainage, sewerage and
sewage disposal, gas and electric service, street lighting, fire hydrants,
grading, gradients and roadway widths, and the surfacing of streets by the
village engineer and the county officials, where concerned, prior to the
approval of the final plat by the village.
      4.   Land Subject To Flooding Or Subject To Flood Control Ordinance 1 :
No plan will be approved for a subdivision which is subject to periodic
flooding or which contains extremely poor drainage facilities and which would
make adequate drainage of the streets impossible. However, if the subdivider
agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the village engineer
where concerned, make the area safe for residential occupancy and provide
adequate street drainage, the preliminary plat of the subdivision may be
approved.
      5.   Duration Of Approval; Final Plat Approval And Recording: Preliminary
plat approval shall be effective for a maximum period of twelve (12) months
following village board approval unless, upon application of the developer, the
village board grants an extension. The final plat must be approved by the
village board and recorded within this same one year time limit. Should the
final plat not be approved and recorded within one year of the preliminary plat
submitted for approval, the preliminary plat must again be submitted for
approval. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 9 of this code.
12-2-2: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Filing: After approval of the preliminary plat by the village board and
the fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations, plans may be
submitted for final plat approval. Thirty five (35) copies of the final plat of
subdivision and five (5) copies of the final engineering plans must be
submitted to the village to initiate the final plat review process.
   B.   Review: The village shall initiate a review of the final plat by the
village engineer.
   C.   Recommendations: The village board or planning and zoning commission
shall, within ninety (90) days from initial consideration, submit its written
recommendations for approval or disapproval unless an extension is agreed upon
by the owner or his agent. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
   D.   Action: Upon submission of a written recommendation and plat from the
planning and zoning commission or the village board, the village board shall
have sixty (60) days in which to take action on the final plat.
   E.   Recording Plat: Upon approval by the village board, the developer shall
record the plat with the county recorder within three (3) months. If not
recorded within this time, the approval shall be null and void. (Ord. 2004-06,
4-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
   F.   Filing Plat: Three (3) prints and one reproducible copy of the final
plat, after the plat is recorded, and four (4) copies of final engineering
drawings must be submitted prior to the issuance of any building permit within
the subdivision and will be filed and retained in the offices of the village.
   G.   Contents: The final plat shall contain the following:
      1.   Name of the subdivision.
      2.   Location by township, section, town and range, or by other legal
description.
      3.   Names of owners. If an owner of all or any portion of the land is a
corporation, the developer shall provide the names of all corporate officers.
If the owner of all or any portion of the land is a trust, the names of all
beneficiaries must be provided and certified by a licensed surveyor.
      4.   Scale of one inch to one hundred feet (1"=100') unless a smaller
scale is approved by the village engineer.
      5.   Date.
      6.   North point.
      7.   Boundary of plat, based on an accurate traverse, with angular and
linear dimensions.
      8.   Exact location, widths and names of all streets within and adjoining
the plat, notation as to whether streets were previously dedicated, or
dedicated in this plat, or private, and the exact location and widths of all
crosswalk ways. Proposed street names shall be checked with proper village
officials. Where street direction changes of more than ninety degrees (90°) are
provided, names of such streets shall change.
      9.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines or
official monuments (not less than 2) which shall be accurately described in the
plat.
      10.   Municipal, township, county and section lines accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles.
      11.   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, and tangent bearings
of lengths of all arcs.
      12.   All easements for rights of way provided for public services and
utilities, and a statement of purpose for each indicated thereon.
      13.   All lot numbers (numbered consecutively) and lines, with accurate
dimensions in feet and hundredths, and area of each lot, if the area of each
lot is substantially different than that indicated on the preliminary plat.
      14.   Accurate location of at least two (2) monuments, which shall be
concrete, six inches by six inches by thirty inches (6"x6"x30") with metal pipe
or rod encased in the center. Permanent stone or concrete monuments shall be
set at two (2) corners or angles on the outside boundary. All U.S., state,
county, or other official benchmarks, monuments or triangulation stations in or
adjacent to the property shall be preserved in precise position.
      15.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purpose indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses by all property
owners.
      16.   Building setback lines accurately shown by dimensions.
      17.   Protective covenants which meet with the approval of the village
board and village attorney shall be made a part of the final plat and filed on
record with the county recorder. Existence of other covenants or declarations
pertaining to common responsibilities of individual owners shall be cited by
reference on the plat.
      18.   An opinion of probable cost of all public improvements prepared by
professional engineers licensed in the state of Illinois.
      19.   Certification by a registered surveyor to the effect that the plat
represents a survey made by him, and that monuments and markers shown thereon
exist as located, and that all dimensional and geodetic details are correct.
      20.   Notarized certification, by the owner or owners, beneficial
interest or by any mortgage holder of record, of the adoption of the plat and
the dedication of streets and other public areas.
      21.   All required plat certificates, including certification showing
that all taxes and special assessments due on the property to be subdivided
have been paid in full.
      22.   Proper form for the approval of the village board with space for
signature.
      23.   Approval by signature of village, county, and state officials
concerned with the specification of utility installation and road access
pursuant to the state plat act 1 .
      24.   Approval by signature of the planning and zoning commission, if
applicable. This approval of the final plat shall not be deemed to constitute
or effect an acceptance by the public of the dedication of any street or other
proposed public way or space shown on the plat. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.
12-2-3: AGREEMENTS; INDEMNIFICATION:
Prior to improving any property, a final plat must be filed for record and be
accompanied by the following:
   A.   Plans And Specifications: Plans and specifications for such
improvements previously approved by the village engineer.
   B.   Agreements: Agreements executed by the owner and the subdivider wherein
they agree to make and install the improvements, in accordance with the plans
and specifications accompanying the final plat.
   C.   Performance Bond: A bond in the format approved by the village in the
amount of one hundred ten percent (110%) of the village engineer's opinion of
probable cost of the installation of such improvements with good and sufficient
surety thereon, to be approved by the village board, conditioned upon the
installation of the required improvements within two (2) years of the approval
of the final plat.
   D.   Maintenance Bond: Maintenance bond in an amount not less than ten
percent (10%) of all public improvements, approved by the village attorney,
providing guarantee of workmanship and materials, shall be delivered to the
village attorney and shall guarantee for a period of one year from the
project's final acceptance the public improvements items and improvements of a
public nature that are constructed in a private development, including, but not
limited to, streets, water mains, sewer mains, streetlights, and street trees.
   E.   Reduction Of Letter Of Credit: The letter of credit can be periodically
reduced by the village upon recommendation of the village engineer. The
subdivider shall submit to the village engineer a list of completed items and
their cost along with copies of waivers of lien for the completed items. Upon
review of these submittals, the village engineer shall recommend to the village
board the value of the letter of credit reduction to be approved. Each
reduction shall not be more than the value of items as estimated in the letter
of credit guaranty amount. The twenty percent (20%) contingency shall be held
as retainage and not released until acceptance of the project and receipt of
the ten percent (10%) maintenance bond as specified in subsection D of this
section and subsection
12-4A-14B of this title.
   F.   Insurance:
      1.   Prior to starting work, the developer responsible for construction
of improvements shall file with the village clerk a certificate of insurance
for:
         a.   Comprehensive General Liability: Comprehensive general liability
insurance in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) each occurrence
and in the aggregate for bodily injury, sickness, disease or death as
protection for any and all claims by anyone, including the developer's
contractors or employees, which may arise out of or result from the developer's
work or by anyone for whose acts the developer may be liable.
         b.   Workers' Compensation: Workers' compensation in accordance with
the laws of the state with jurisdiction and employers' liability in an amount
not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
         c.   Automobile Liability:
            (1)   One million dollars ($1,000,000.00) bodily injury and
property damage (combined single limit).
            (2)   Coverage shall include hired and nonowned automobiles.
         d.   Umbrella Liability: Umbrella liability coverage in an amount not
less than three million dollars ($3,000,000.00). Such coverage shall include,
but not be limited to, excess coverage for the workers' compensation, general
liability, and automobile liability policies.
         e.   Property Insurance: Property insurance in the amount of the
estimated cost of improvements as well as subsequent modifications thereto for
the entire work at the site on a replacement cost basis. This insurance shall
include interests of the developer and the village, their officers, employees,
and agents, and contractors as additional insured. This certificate shall state
that the coverage will not be terminated or reduced without thirty (30) days'
advance written notice to the village.
      2.   The subdivider's contractor shall not commence work until
certificates of insurance showing coverage of all insurance required, signed by
the insurance companies or their authorized agents, have been filed with both
the village and its engineers. Each certificate shall provide that coverage
shall not be terminated or reduced without thirty (30) days' advance written
notice to the village and its engineers. The subdivider shall name the village
and its engineers as additional insured as stated in subsection F3 of this
section.
      3.   The policies of insurance so required by this subsection to be
purchased and maintained shall:
         a.   With respect to comprehensive general liability insurance,
include as additional insured, the village and the village engineer, all of
whom shall be listed by name as additional insureds, and include coverage for
the respective officers and employees of all such additional insureds;
         b.   Remain in effect at least until final payment and at all times
thereafter when the subdivider may be correcting, removing or replacing
defective work in accordance with this title; and
         c.   With respect to completed operations insurance, shall remain in
effect for at least two (2) years after final payment (and the subdivider shall
furnish the village and any other additional insured to whom an insurance
policy has been furnished, evidence satisfactory to the village and any such
additional insured of continuation of such insurance at final payment and one
year thereafter). (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
CHAPTER 3
REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Compliance Required
12-3-2: Streets
12-3-3: Easements
12-3-4: Blocks
12-3-5: Lots
12-3-6: Alleys And Crosswalks In Commercial Areas
12-3-7: Sidewalks And Driveways
12-3-8: Stormwater Management And Erosion Control
12-3-9: Sewers
12-3-10: Public Water Supply Required
12-3-11: Public Utilities
12-3-12: Landscaping
12-3-13: Street Lighting
12-3-14: Cost Participation
12-3-15: Permit Issuance Restrictions
12-3-16: Acreage Fees
12-3-17: Variations
12-3-18: Enforcement
12-3-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No subdivision of land shall be approved without receiving a statement signed
by the village certifying that the improvements described in the subdivision
plans and specifications, together with agreements, meet the minimum
requirements of all ordinances of the village and that they comply with this
chapter. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-3-2: STREETS:
   A.   Street Plan: The subdivision of land, including the arrangement,
character, extent, width, grade and location of all streets, alleys, or other
land to be dedicated for public use, shall conform to the comprehensive plan of
the village as approved and adopted by the village board and other responsible
governmental bodies and shall be considered in their relation to existing and
planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety,
and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served
by such streets.
   B.   Street Improvements:
      1.   Street improvements are required to be constructed in conformity
with the design standards adopted by the village. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
      2.   In subdivisions outside of the corporate areas, but within the one
and one-half (11/2) mile area, street improvements shall conform to the same
standards of improvements as required of subdivisions within the corporate
area. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
      3.   Final surface for public streets may be delayed at the direction
and/or approval of the village engineer to avoid premature damage of final
surface course.
      4.   Once the final surface course has been placed, "NO CONSTRUCTION
TRAFFIC" signs shall be posted at the subdivision entrances. Further access to
the subdivision by construction traffic shall be by means of a construction
entrance. Said entrance shall be constructed of three inch (3") diameter stone
in accordance with the "Illinois Urban Manual Standards" for a minimum length
of one hundred fifty feet (150').
   C.   Minimum Street Standards: All minimum standards established are
intended to be construed solely as minimums. Additional standards may be
required depending on the topography, soil and overall geological or special
conditions of each individual parcel being developed. The standards for streets
shall be in conformance with the design standards established by the village.
The village engineer may recommend and the village board may require standards
beyond the minimums set forth when geological conditions dictate the necessity
for additional standards.
      1.   Right Of Way Widths: All right of way widths shall conform to the
dimensions shown in the design standards adopted by the village.
      2.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by
nonlocal traffic will be discouraged, without impairing overall traffic or
utility efficiency.
      3.   Alleys: Alleys in residential districts are not permitted, except
where deemed necessary, and at the discretion of the planning and zoning
commission and/or the village board. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
      4.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited, except where
essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision, and where the
planning and zoning commission and/or the village board finds it will be
practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be planned within such tract.
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
      5.   Street Names: No street names may be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names of existing streets. Existing street names must be
projected wherever possible. Each name has to be approved by the village board.
      6.   Lots Abutting Arterials: Provisions shall be made for serving lots
abutting arterials by either the use of:
         a.   Frontage roads; or
         b.   Restriction of access to internal subdivision streets; or
         c.   Shared driveway access (for commercial and industrial areas
only). Screening shall be required along arterials should a frontage road not
be provided. These provisions are intended to provide adequate protection of
residential properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
      7.   Collector Streets: Subdivisions shall provide at least one well
planned collector street.
      8.   Emergency Floodways: Streets are the preferred routing of the
overland emergency floodways.
      9.   Curbs: Curbs shall be depressed where sidewalks intersect curb lines
for the full width of the sidewalk to provide for handicapped ramps as provided
in the design standards adopted by the village. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-3-3: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Easements, when required for village owned and/or maintained utilities,
to be labeled municipal utility easements, shall be at least ten feet (10')
wide and shall include a provision prohibiting the installation of trees,
shrubs, hedges, and bushes if determined by the village engineer that they
would hinder or prevent the drainage of surface water. All other easements
provided for nonmunicipally owned utilities shall meet the requirements of the
individual company. Except, however, any fences, sheds or other equipment and/
or structures installed within any such easement, with or without a permit from
the village, utility company or other authorized user of said easement, shall
be removed by the current owner of said property, upon request of the village,
utility or other authorized agent for which the easement has been established.
All costs incurred by the removal or relocation of any such obstruction to said
easement shall be the sole responsibility of the current owner or owner's
agent.
   B.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel, or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right of way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse, and
such further width needed to straighten, or for maintenance access, or both, as
will be adequate for the purposes. Parallel streets or parkways may be required
in connection therewith.
   C.   Easements shall be added when stormwater from public or other private
areas drains to a privately owned and maintained stormwater detention basin or
wetland, such that a perpetual right to drain is established, and the village
retains the right to enter the easement and perform any necessary maintenance
if the property owner fails to adequately maintain the area. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-
19-2004)
12-3-4: BLOCKS:
   A.   Length; Crosswalks; Sidewalks: The maximum length of blocks shall be
one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') unless otherwise approved by the village
board. Blocks over one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') require a crosswalk.
Crosswalk dedication of not less than ten feet (10') in width shall be
provided, where deemed necessary by the planning and zoning commission, at the
approximate centers of the blocks. A sidewalk shall be constructed in
conformance with section
12-4F-10 of this title and shall be erected on the centerline, and full length
of the crosswalk. The planning and zoning commission or the village board will
specify the use of additional crosswalks in any instance to provide safe and
convenient access to schools, parks or other similar destinations.
   B.   Shape: No specific rule concerning the shape of blocks is made, but
blocks must fit easily into the overall plan of the subdivision, and their
design must evidence consideration of lot planning, traffic flow, and public
areas.
   C.   Commercial And Industrial Use: Blocks intended for commercial and
industrial use must be designated as such, and the plan must show adequate off
street areas suitably surfaced to provide for parking, loading docks and such
other facilities that may be required to accommodate motor vehicles. (Ord.
2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-3-5: LOTS:
   A.   Minimum Dimensions: The minimum lot dimensions for residential
development shall be pursuant to the zoning title at the established building
line. (This minimum requirement shall not apply to land subdivided for
nonresidential development.) Corner lots shall be ten percent (10%) larger than
the minimum permitted within the zoning district.
   B.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior
lots to allow maintenance of building setback lines on both streets.
   C.   Building Lines: Within the incorporated limits of the village, building
lines shall conform to the front yard provisions of the zoning title. Building
lines for territory outside the incorporated limits, but within the
jurisdiction of this title, shall conform to the provisions of the applicable
county ordinance; except, that in no instance shall the building lines be less
than twenty five feet (25') from the street line.
   D.   Abut Dedicated Streets: All lots shall abut publicly dedicated streets.
   E.   Side Lines: Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles
or radial to the street line.
   F.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage lots are discouraged except where
lots back upon a primary street (major), and in such instances, vehicular
access between the lots and the thoroughfare is prohibited or where topography
of the land might render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. Such lots shall
have an additional rear yard depth of at least twenty feet (20') in order to
allow for a protective screen planting.
   G.   Lots Abutting Water Bodies: Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway,
wetland, channel or stream shall have additional minimum width or depth as
required to provide an adequate building site and afford the minimum usable
area required in the zoning title for front, rear and side yards 1 . (Ord.
2004-06, 4-19-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 8 of this code for setback requirements and
  development limitations.
12-3-6: ALLEYS AND CROSSWALKS IN COMMERCIAL AREAS:
Alleys and crosswalks shall be provided in commercial areas unless such areas
are otherwise provided with off street loading space. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-3-7: SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS:
Sidewalks and driveways are required to be constructed in accordance with the
design standards adopted by the village 1 . (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
 
Notes
1 2. See section
  12-4F-5 of this title for driveway requirements.
12-3-8: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND EROSION CONTROL:
Facilities to control the discharge of stormwater runoff from a development
shall be required in accordance with chapter 4, article D of this title.
Direction shall be included in both the plans and special provisions in
sufficient detail to define what physical measures the developer shall perform
to eliminate the effects of soil erosion, mud tracking and the resultant
sedimentation problems both on and off the site in accordance with sections
12-4B-1 through
12-4B-6,
12-4B-14 and
12-4B-15 of this title. Control of erosion shall be required both during and
following construction, until expiration of the required maintenance bond.
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-3-9: SEWERS:
   A.   Sanitary Sewers: Sanitary sewers shall be installed to comply with
specifications established by the village engineer (liability to be called out
all the time) and shall be connected to the sanitary disposal system of the
village if reasonably accessible; otherwise, to a specifically constructed
sanitary sewage disposal plant in accordance with the plans acceptable to the
village.
   B.   Septic Systems:
      1.   Where public sanitary sewers are not reasonably accessible,
individual septic systems may be permitted; however, a subdivision plat shall
in no case be approved which shall be dependent upon individual septic systems
and private wells, except where lots therein contain not less than forty
thousand (40,000) square feet each, and said systems are approved by the
appropriate county department.
      2.   If the subdivision is served with the public water supply, the lots
with septic systems shall contain at least twenty five thousand (25,000) square
feet each.
   C.   Location: All village maintained utilities shall be placed within
dedicated rights of way and approved easements, and specifically, these
utilities shall not be placed upon private properties except for PUDs in which
alternate agreements are entered into by the village and the subdivider. (Ord.
2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-3-10: PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED:
   Each subdivision shall be served by a potable public water system, installed
at the subdivider's cost, consisting of water mains with a diameter of no less
than eight inches (8") constructed of ductile iron or C900 plastic, as
determined by the Village and related facilities sufficient to supply each lot
and the present and future needs of such subdivision. Each subdivision's
potable public water system shall have a looped water system with each water
main being no less than eight inches (8") in diameter that provides a minimum
of two (2) separate sources of pressure and volume shall be provided. Final
design of each such potable public water system shall meet the approval fo the
village engineer.
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-O-19, 9-16-2024)
12-3-11: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Underground Utilities:
      1.   All existing and proposed utility lines, conduits or cable for
telephone, electric and cable television services shall be placed a minimum of
twenty four inches (24") underground within the easements or dedicated public
ways as recommended by the village engineer and as approved by the president
and village board in conjunction with the approval of any final plat of
subdivision or final planned unit development. Further, all transformer boxes
shall be located so as not to be hazardous to the public.
      2.   All service lines to buildings or structures shall be placed
underground in an approved manner.
      3.   All utilities to service an individual lot, except sewer and water,
are to enter along the lot lines and be placed at a depth of no less than six
inches (6") or at whatever depth is required by this code, whichever is
greater.
   B.   Permits Required: Permits shall be required for the installation of
conduits, cable or piping for telephone, electricity, cable TV and natural gas
supply and distribution in accordance with utility franchise agreements 1 .
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 9 of this code for cable TV franchise provisions.
12-3-12: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Landscaping shall be required to be constructed in accordance with the
design standards adopted by the village.
   B.   Maintenance of the "parkway area", defined as that area adjacent to any
lot or parcel, between the property line and any street shoulder or curb, shall
be the responsibility of the property owner of said lot or parcel including,
but not limited to:
      1.   Mowing of grass or ground cover.
      2.   Private driveway approaches.
      3.   The curb (depressed) or flare from the pavement edge extended, for a
private driveway approach.
      4.   Tree trimming and watering to assure a healthy, well shaped
appearance and maintaining adequate roadway and sidewalk clearances, as
approved by the building commissioner.
      5.   Keeping culvert opening free of debris.
      6.   Mailboxes and support structures.
      7.   Sidewalk installation and maintenance.
      8.   Standards for acceptable private driveway approach and curb shall be
as established in the design standards. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-3-13: STREET LIGHTING:
Each subdivider or subdivision owner shall provide for the adequate lighting of
public streets within the proposed subdivision in accordance with village
standards and requirements established by the village engineer, Commonwealth
Edison or any subsequent power supplier, and subject to the approval of the
village president and board of trustees. It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider or subdivision owner to pay the installation cost of all such
lighting. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
12-3-14: COST PARTICIPATION:
A subdivider of any project that involves the village as a participant in
certain defined costs by agreement shall include the village in the
notification process coincidental with the advertisement for bids. A
representative of the village shall be invited to the bid opening to consider
the acceptance or rejection of the concerned bid items. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-
2004)
12-3-15: PERMIT ISSUANCE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued by any governing
official for the construction of any buildings, structures or improvements to
the land or any lot within a subdivision, as defined herein, which has been
approved for platting or replatting, unless verification and approval has been
obtained from the village. Nor will any permit for any temporary or permanent
facilities or structures be issued until all fire hydrants are operational and
all roadways are capable to support emergency equipment. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-
2004; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Occupancy Permit: No occupancy permit shall be granted by any governing
official for the use of any structure within a subdivision approved for
platting and replatting until required utility facilities have been installed
and made ready to service the property, and that roadways providing access to
the subject lot or lots have been constructed, or are in the course of
construction and sufficiently completed to meet the approval of the village
engineer, which, in the case of corner lots, shall include both streets upon
which the property is located. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-3-16: ACREAGE FEES:
At the time of approval and before the recording and filing of the approved
plat of the subdivision, an acreage fee of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00)
per acre or portion thereof shall be paid by the subdivider to the village to
offset capital costs. The president and village board may determine the method
of payment and grant extensions on the time of payment at their discretion.
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-3-17: VARIATIONS:
In the case where there are particular difficulties or peculiar hardship in
carrying out the literal provisions of this title, the planning and zoning
commission may recommend variations from these requirements in specific cases
which, in its opinion, do not affect the general plan or the spirit of this
chapter, and recommendations shall be communicated to the village board. Such
recommendation may be made by referring the variation matter to the board of
trustees before the planning and zoning commission makes any further
consideration of or takes any further action on the subdivision application in
question; or such recommendation may be made at the same time that the planning
and zoning commission recommends action on the entire subdivision application.
The village board may, upon receipt of the recommendations of the planning and
zoning commission, approve, deny or refer back to planning and zoning
commission for further consideration, variations from these requirements in
specific cases which, in its opinion, do not affect the general plan or the
spirit of this chapter and, when applicable, forward approval of such
variations to the county authorities. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
12-3-18: ENFORCEMENT:
No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in the county
recorder's office or have any validity until it shall have been approved in the
manner prescribed by this title. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
ARTICLE A. ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-4A-1: Purpose And Intent
12-4A-2: Scope
12-4A-3: Predesign Conference
12-4A-4: Drawing Preparation Requirements
12-4A-5: Specification Requirements
12-4A-6: Design Computation Requirements
12-4A-7: Opinion Of Probable Cost
12-4A-8: Plan Review, Inspection And Administration Fees
12-4A-9: Other Permit Applications And Approvals
12-4A-10: Revisions To Approved Drawings And Specifications
12-4A-11: Construction Supervision
12-4A-12: Existing Facilities
12-4A-13: Record Drawings
12-4A-14: Final Processing And Acceptance
12-4A-15: Waiver Of Design Standards
12-4A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This chapter has been prepared to ensure that the design and construction of
public improvements will meet the minimum requirements of the village. The
intent hereof is to provide an overview of requirements and procedures required
by this title which govern the design and construction of public improvements.
These standards are also intended to provide uniform design criteria for
facilities designed for or directly by the village, as well as provide
specifications for private development within the village. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-
2004)
12-4A-2: SCOPE:
In addition to the village, the review and approval of contract documents for
certain types of improvements may also fall within the jurisdiction of other
public agencies. These standards are not intended as a substitute for the
requirements of other public agencies. It shall be the subdivider's
responsibility to ensure that the proposed contract documents meet the
requirements of all other public agencies and that any and all permits and
bonds required by such agencies are secured. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4A-3: PREDESIGN CONFERENCE:
It is recommended that after preliminary plat approval and prior to the
development of detailed drawings, the subdivider and the design engineer meet
with the village engineer to review village requirements and any other proposed
projects or existing conditions that may affect the final project design. The
request for this preliminary meeting, if desired, shall be initiated by the
design engineer. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4A-4: DRAWING PREPARATION REQUIREMENTS:
All drawings submitted for approval shall bear the name of the design engineer,
his/her signature, the imprint of the professional engineer seal, and his/her
address and telephone number. Where feasible, drawings shall consist of twenty
four inch by thirty six inch (24"x36") sheets. Drawings shall be clear and
legible, and shall be drawn to a conventional, even scale, which will permit
all necessary information to be plainly shown. All elevations shall be
referenced to USGS datum, and benchmarks shall be noted. All materials proposed
for use on the project shall be indicated on the drawings. All proposed
improvements and all existing municipal and privately owned utilities shall be
shown in both plan and profile. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4A-5: SPECIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Technical specifications shall be complete in themselves; except, that
appropriate specific sections of the most recent edition of the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", as published by the
department of transportation, state of Illinois, and the various standard
published material specifications prepared by associations such as the American
Society For Testing And Materials (ASTM) and the American Water Works
Association (AWWA), may be incorporated by reference.
   B.   The specifications shall include, but not be limited to, all
information not shown on the drawings which is necessary to establish, in
detail, the quality of materials and work required in the project, allowable
parameters for testing the various parts of the project and instructions for
testing material and equipment. Wherever there is a conflict between the
written specifications and the drawings, the more stringent requirements, as
determined by the village, shall apply. The specifications shall include a
clause that all work included shall be guaranteed by the contractor to be free
from defects in construction and materials and in conformance with the approved
drawings and specifications. A statement of comprehensive liability insurance
shall also be provided. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4A-6: DESIGN COMPUTATION REQUIREMENTS:
The design engineer shall make design computations for all phases of the
project when such computations are required to facilitate review by the village
engineer. Said computations shall be neat and legible and in a form considered
acceptable by the village engineer. Said computations shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to, the following: detention reservoir capacity design;
compensatory floodplain storage; wetlands mitigation; fire flow determination
and water main sizing; storm sewer system design, including inlet capacity;
sanitary sewer design; and structural strength design for conduits more than
twenty feet (20') below finished grade. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4A-7: OPINION OF PROBABLE COST:
The design engineer shall prepare an itemized opinion of the probable cost of
the work which shall be approved by the village engineer. The opinion shall
delineate public and private (on site) improvements when applicable. (Ord.
2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4A-8: PLAN REVIEW, INSPECTION AND ADMINISTRATION FEES:
   A.   All required land improvements proposed to be made under the provisions
of this chapter shall be inspected during the course of construction by a duly
designated representative of the village. All fees and costs connected with the
review of the drawings and specifications for the improvements and inspection
of the construction of the improvements, including final approvals and project
guarantee reductions, shall be paid by the developer or subdivider. The
developer of a single lot residential property shall pay a nonrefundable fee of
one thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250.00) for a single- family
dwelling and one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a multi-family
dwelling to cover the costs of site plan review, a site visit (if necessary), a
letter of comments and recommendations, a follow up review and a final letter
of approval recommendation. The developer of a single lot commercial property
and the developer of a subdivision of PUD (residential and commercial) shall
submit a nonrefundable fee equal to the sum of three percent (3%) of the design
engineer's opinion of probable cost for required land improvements. The
developer shall deposit with the village the sum of one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00) at the time he submits a preliminary plat for review. Said
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) shall be credited toward the
actual calculated review fee computed hereunder. Any remaining amounts due
hereunder shall be paid prior to the issuance of a final letter of approval
recommendation or to the approval of the final plat of subdivision.
   B.   The cost for inspection of the installation of required land
improvements shall be billed to the subdivider or developer by the village
based on the actual hours spent at the project site, plus travel and expenses,
by village retained personnel. Any additional administrative or legal costs,
including updating village plans and atlases from required record drawings, the
village may incur shall be billed to the developer or subdivider by the
village. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4A-9: OTHER PERMIT APPLICATIONS AND APPROVALS:
Other governmental agencies may review and approve for construction all or
certain parts of the work included in a project and may require a permit for
such work. They may also require the village execute an application for a
permit. When such permit application is required, the design engineer shall
prepare said application. The subdivider shall secure all required permits and
necessary authorizations from other governmental agencies. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-
2004)
12-4A-10: REVISIONS TO APPROVED DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
The village engineer shall approve any deviations from previously approved
drawings or specifications affecting capacity, stability or operations of the
system in writing before such changes are made. Minor changes not affecting
capacity, stability or operation of the system will not require formal
approval, but must be approved in writing by the field inspector. (Ord. 2004-
06, 4-19-2004)
12-4A-11: CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION:
The village engineer and/or field inspector shall conduct periodic visits to
private project developments, but full time inspection and performance
certifications are the responsibility of the design engineer or other
independent professional employed by the subdivider. Confirmation of approved
grades and utility installation and preparation of record drawings are likewise
the responsibility of the design engineer or other independent professional
employed by the subdivider. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4A-12: EXISTING FACILITIES:
Drawings and specifications shall provide for the continuous operation of
existing facilities without interruption during construction, unless otherwise
specifically authorized by the village engineer. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4A-13: RECORD DRAWINGS:
   A.   Reproducible record drawings, signed and sealed by the design engineer
or other independent professional employed by the subdivider, shall clearly
show any and all changes from the approved drawings. Record drawings shall be
submitted to the village engineer prior to the subdivider's request for final
inspection of the required improvements. The record drawings shall be based on
actual measurements of both horizontal and vertical dimensions made after the
completion of the work. Record drawings shall include, but not limited to, the
following information:
      1.   Water service (B-box) locations.
      2.   Sanitary service locations.
      3.   Fire hydrant locations.
      4.   Location of streetlight poles and cable run to power source.
      5.   Location and elevation of structures (storm and sanitary sewer
system).
      6.   Gradient of utility mains.
      7.   Drainage swale grades and capacity calculations.
      8.   Stormwater detention basin contours and volume calculations.
   B.   One mylar copy and three (3) blue line copies shall be submitted to
meet this requirement. A digital copy of the record drawing and the final
recorded plat of subdivision (AutoCAD) shall also be submitted. (Ord. 2004-06,
4-19-2004)
12-4A-14: FINAL PROCESSING AND ACCEPTANCE:
   A.   Upon written request of the subdivider, and after the required
improvements have been completed and record drawings have been submitted, the
village engineer shall make a final inspection of the completed work. The
village engineer shall then prepare a final punchlist, itemizing all items not
meeting the requirements of the approved drawings and specifications. Upon
completion of all items listed in the final punchlist, the subdivider shall
request, in writing, a final inspection. When all items are found to meet the
requirements of the village and the approved drawings and specifications, the
village engineer shall notify the village, in writing, of his recommendation
for approval and acceptance of the work. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
   B.   The village manager shall schedule the acceptance for the next regular
village board meeting. Prior to final acceptance of the public improvements,
the subdivider shall submit a ten percent (10%) maintenance bond for the full
value of the public improvements as estimated by the subdivider's engineer and
verified by the village engineer. Said maintenance bond shall be the
developer's guarantee against defects of the public improvements and shall
terminate one year after acceptance of maintenance of the public improvements
by the village board. Upon acceptance by the village board, the balance of the
public improvements construction guarantee, cash or letter of credit shall be
released to the subdivider.
   C.   Prior to the acceptance or final processing of any improvements subject
to the provisions of this Title 12 of the Village Code, the subdivider shall be
responsible for the submission of electronic copies of the design drawings and
of the as-built drawings for the public improvements and for such portion of
the private improvements as the Village shall require. Such electronic drawings
shall be submitted subject to the specifications of the Village Engineer with
regard to file format, media format, detail included/excluded and similar
characteristics. The subdivider shall tender such electronic records to the
Village free and clear of any claim of copyright or intellectual property
protection, for use by the Village or third parties at any time in the future,
without restriction or limitation.
      1.   At the Village Engineer's or Public Works Director's discretion, the
provisions of this subsection
12-4A-14(C) may be applied as a binding requirement for any activity which
requires the issuance of a permit by the Village, including utility permits,
grading permits, tap-on or connection requests or other permit requests of any
form, whatsoever, without regard to whether the permit involves any subdivision
of properties. The party seeking the permit or authorization must agree to
comply with the Engineer or Director's requirements as a component of permit
issuance or permit closeout. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code; Ord.
2019-O-13, 5-6-2019)
12-4A-15: WAIVER OF DESIGN STANDARDS:
Where conditions so warrant, the village board of trustees may consider waiving
any of the requirements found in these standards upon appeal by the subdivider.
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
ARTICLE B. EROSION CONTROL, PROTECTION AND RESTORATION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-4B-1: Intent
12-4B-2: Erosion Control
12-4B-3: Design Requirements
12-4B-4: Maintenance Of Control Measures
12-4B-5: Special Precautions
12-4B-6: Protection Of Property And Surface Structures
12-4B-7: Interruption To Utilities And Damage To Surface Improvements
12-4B-8: Traffic Control
12-4B-9: Pavement Crossing
12-4B-10: Trenching
12-4B-11: Bracing And Sheeting
12-4B-12: Bedding And Backfill Requirements
12-4B-13: Restoration Of Existing Improved Surfaces
12-4B-14: Inspections
12-4B-15: Exceptions
12-4B-1: INTENT:
Project construction required in connection with a development often occurs in
or adjacent to areas with existing surface or underground improvements. The
intent of this article is to specify village requirements relative to
construction affecting existing and future improvements and the restoration of
existing improvements. Drawings and specifications presented for village
approval shall provide for the implementation of the requirements of this
article. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4B-2: EROSION CONTROL:
   A.   Erosion and sediment control due to runoff, equipment leaving and
entering a construction site, wind, etc., is required for all construction,
including individual single- family lots, in the village. Site engineering or
grading plan for projects shall either contain specific provisions for erosion
control or a separate erosion control plan. The provisions or plan will follow
accepted techniques and details found in the "Illinois Urban Manual" or as
directed by the village engineer.
   B.   Steep slopes (exceeding 3 to 1) are to be avoided whenever possible. As
much natural vegetation as possible should be retained, especially next to
lakes, creeks, or other natural water sources.
   C.   If a project consists solely of a grading permit or if earthwork
commences prior to final project approval, a separate bond or letter of credit
will be required in the amount specified as follows:
 
Less than 1.0 acre $ 1,500.00/acre
1 to 10 acres      1,500.00 + $750.00/acre over 1 acre
11 to 100 acres    8,250.00 + $500.00/acre over 10 acres
Over 100 acres     52,750.00 + $250.00/acre over 100 acres
 
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
12-4B-3: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
On site sediment control measures, as specified by the following criteria,
shall be constructed and functional prior to initiating clearing, grading,
stripping, excavating or fill activities on the site.
   A.   Filter barriers (including filter fences, straw bales, or equivalent
control measures) shall be constructed to control all off site runoff as
specified in referenced handbooks. The maximum drainage area for overland flow
to a silt fence shall not exceed one-half (1/2) acre per one hundred feet
(100') of fence. Vegetated filter strips, with a minimum width of twenty five
feet (25'), may be used as an alternative only where runoff in sheet flow is
expected. Silt filter fences and straw bales shall be inspected weekly and
after rainfall events for repair or replacement. Straw bales shall be replaced,
as a minimum, every three (3) months.
   B.   For disturbed areas draining more than one but less than five (5)
acres, a sediment trap or equivalent control measure shall be constructed at
the downslope point of the disturbed area.
   C.   For disturbed areas draining more than five (5) acres, a sediment basin
or equivalent control measure shall be constructed at the downslope point of
the disturbed area.
   D.   Sediment basin design shall provide for both detention storage and
sediment storage. The detention storage shall be sized for the two (2) year,
twenty four (24) hour runoff from the site under maximum runoff conditions
during construction with a release rate to achieve minimum detention times of
at least ten (10) hours. Sediment storage shall be designed such that sediment
removal from the basin is only required once a year.
   E.   Disturbed areas shall be stabilized within seven (7) days with any of
the temporary or permanent measures defined in this section.
   F.   Any required disturbance of stream channels shall be restabilized
within forty eight (48) hours of disturbance. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4B-4: MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES:
All soil erosion and sediment control measures necessary to meet the
requirements of this title shall be maintained periodically by the applicant or
subsequent landowner during the period of land disturbance and development of
the site in a satisfactory manner to ensure adequate performance. (Ord. 2004-
06, 4-19-2004)
12-4B-5: SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   If, at any stage of the grading of any development site, the village
determines by inspection that the nature of the site is such that further work
authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil any property, public way,
stream, lake, wetland, or drainage structure, the village may require, as a
condition of allowing the work to be done, that such reasonable special
precautions to be taken as is considered advisable to avoid the likelihood of
such peril. "Special precautions" may include, but shall not be limited to, a
more level exposed slope, construction of additional drainage facilities,
berms, terracing, compaction, or cribbing, installation of plant materials for
erosion control, and recommendations of a registered soils engineer and/or
engineering geologist regarding requirements for further work.
   B.   Where it appears that storm damage may result because the grading on
any development site is not complete, work may be stopped and the permittee
required to install temporary structures or take such other measures as may be
required to protect adjoining property or the public safety. On large
developments or where unusual site conditions prevail, the village may specify
the time of starting grading and time of completion or may require that the
operations be conducted in specific stages so as to ensure completion of
protective measures or devices prior to the advent of seasonal rains. (Ord.
2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4B-6: PROTECTION OF PROPERTY AND SURFACE STRUCTURES:
   A.   Trees, shrubbery, fences, poles and all other property and surface
structures shall be protected during construction operations. Any fences, poles
or other manmade surface improvements which are moved or disturbed shall be
restored to their original condition or replaced in kind with new material,
after construction is completed. A tree preservation plan shall be submitted
for all areas of a project that will be affected by development activity. The
plan shall show the location and trunk diameter of all trees of a diameter
breast height (dbh) of ten inches (10") and larger. The plan shall distinguish
between existing trees that are proposed to be preserved, destroyed, relocated
or replaced. Effort shall be taken to the extent practicable to preserve
healthy trees over ten inches (10") dbh. Any trees, shrubbery or other
vegetation which are approved for removal shall be removed completely,
including stumps and roots.
   B.   Where trees are to remain, proper care should be taken during
excavation operations. Do not machine excavate in the "root protection zone"
defined as a circle around the tree with a radius equal to one foot (1') for
every inch of tree diameter. Roots encountered outside this zone, which are
over two inches (2") in diameter, shall not be cut unless approved by the
village engineer. Tree tunneling, where necessary, shall be determined by the
village engineer. Shrub and tree limbs shall be tied back to prevent loss or
damage. Any damaged limbs and branches shall be pruned and sealed. Soil banks
shall be removed by hand from around trees to prevent damage to trunks by
construction machinery.
   C.   At the subdivider's expense, an approved, independent nursery
professional shall be utilized when deemed necessary by the village. Trees and
shrubs which cannot be protected or are damaged during construction shall be
replaced in kind or replaced with four inch (4") diameter and larger trees with
one 4-inch diameter size tree for each six inches (6") of original tree
diameter or fraction thereof.
   D.   Trees which do not survive (in good condition) for a period of eighteen
(18) months after planting shall be removed and replaced. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-
2004)
12-4B-7: INTERRUPTION TO UTILITIES AND DAMAGE TO SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   A minimum of forty eight (48) hours prior to commencement of work,
JULIE and the village engineer must be notified for location of any existing
utilities. All reasonable precautions shall be taken against damage to existing
utilities.
   B.   In the event of a break in an existing water main, gas main, sewer or
underground cable, the contractor shall immediately notify a responsible
official from the organization operating the interrupted utility. The
contractor shall lend all possible assistance in restoring service and shall
assume all costs, charges or claims connected with the interruption and repair
of such services unless it is determined that the utility has not been properly
located.
   C.   In the case of village utilities, the cost of such work will be billed
to the contractor. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4B-8: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   All work within public rights of way shall conform to the requirements
of the latest edition of the "Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices For
Highway Control And Maintenance Operations", as published by the department of
transportation, state of Illinois. The provisions of these standards will be
enforced:
      1.   When an opening is made into the existing pavement;
      2.   When construction takes place adjacent to the edge of the existing
pavement;
      3.   When a utility crossing is made beneath the existing pavement; and
      4.   When it is necessary to close a lane of traffic due to construction
operations.
   B.   Permission for lane or road closure must be obtained from the village
police department prior to commencing construction. Signing will be required in
strict conformance to the traffic control manual. No construction operation is
to commence until such time that all required signs and barricades have been
erected. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4B-9: PAVEMENT CROSSING:
   A.   Unless otherwise specifically approved by the village engineer, all
conduits crossing existing pavements shall be installed by tunneling, jacking
or augering. When the carrier pipe is a conduit intended to operate under
internal pressure, a casing pipe of adequate strength for all applied loads
shall be used. The nearest face of pits or other open excavations on each side
of a traveled pavement shall be at least ten feet (10') from the edge of the
pavement.
   B.   When open cutting is allowed or other pavement opening required, it
shall be backfilled prior to the end of the working day unless otherwise
authorized by the village. All excavations shall be backfilled with select
granular material CA-6, grade 8 or 9 crushed stone, and a temporary bituminous
patch of at least two inches (2") in thickness shall be constructed. It is
understood that such backfilling and patching is only temporary and that
permanent pavement repair will be required as specified in section
12-4B-13 of this article. In lieu of a bituminous patch, a steel plate (minimum
of 1 inch of thickness) over the excavation may be approved upon request by the
contractor. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4B-10: TRENCHING:
   A.   Trenches shall be excavated to the depths and grades necessary for
pipelines including allowances for bedding material.
   B.   As determined by the village engineer, unsuitable soils found at or
below the bottom of the trench shall be excavated to meet firm subsoil.
   C.   Comply with the following maximum trench widths at the top of
pipelines:
 
Nominal Pipe Sizes Trench Widths
(Inches)           (Inches)
12 or smaller      30
14 to 18           36
20 to 24           42
27 to 30           48
33 or larger       11/3 times pipe OD
 
   D.   If trench widths will exceed the maximum limitations above, higher
strength pipe may be required or a concrete cradle may be used to achieve the
necessary load factor. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4B-11: BRACING AND SHEETING:
Open cut trenches shall be sheeted and braced as required by governing federal
and state laws including all OSHA safety and health standards (29 CFR 1926/
1910), and as may be necessary to protect life, property and the work. (Ord.
2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4B-12: BEDDING AND BACKFILL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bedding:
      1.   Bedding shall be provided for all underground pipelines, except
where concrete encasement, concrete cradles, boring or jacking are indicated.
Bedding shall be a minimum thickness of four inches (4") and consist of gravel
or crushed stone one- fourth inch (1/4") to one inch (1") in size. As a
minimum, the bedding material shall conform to the requirements of the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", Illinois department
of transportation. The gradations shall conform to gradation CA7, CA8, CA11 or
CA13 therein. Note that when PVC or ABS pipe is used, the bedding material
shall extend to twelve inches (12") over the top of the pipe. Bedding shall be
properly compacted.
      2.   Wherever two (2) or more pipes or conduits are placed in the same
trench or excavated area, the trench shall be backfilled with granular bedding
material to support the uppermost pipe or conduit.
   B.   Backfill:
      1.   For conduits not requiring selected granular backfill, backfill
shall be made with materials available from the trench excavation. The material
shall be free from rocks and carefully placed in twelve inch (12") lifts.
      2.   For conduits requiring excavation as described in the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" beneath or within three feet
(3') horizontally of existing or proposed pavements, driveways, or sidewalks or
in other areas which, in the opinion of the village engineer, are or may be
subject to vehicular traffic loading, selected granular backfill shall be
provided above the bottom of the trench and shall extend upward to the surface
of the ground or pavement. Material for selected granular backfill shall
consist of CA-6 grade 8 or 9 crushed stone. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4B-13: RESTORATION OF EXISTING IMPROVED SURFACES:
   A.   Generally: The contractor shall restore all permanent type pavements,
sidewalks, driveways, curbs, gutters, trees, shrubbery, lawns, fences, poles
and other property and surface structures removed or disturbed during or as a
result of construction operations to a condition that existed before the work
began. The surface of all improvements shall be constructed of the same
material and match in appearance the surface of the improvements which were
removed.
   B.   Saw Cutting: When necessary to remove sections of existing pavement,
sidewalk, or curb and gutter, and prior to removal, the edges of the section to
be removed shall be cleanly cut with a concrete saw.
   C.   Grinding Prohibited: No grinding of driveways or curbs is permitted.
Horizontal sawing of curb cuts may be allowed upon the written authority of the
inspector having jurisdiction.
   D.   Concrete Pavement Surface: Where the existing roadway pavement surface
is portland cement concrete, the pavement replacement shall consist of six inch
(6") PC concrete pavement or existing concrete depth, whichever is greater.
Portland cement concrete and construction methods for portland cement concrete
pavement shall conform to the current requirements of the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" of the Illinois department of
transportation for portland cement concrete pavement. Pavement joints and
reinforcing in the replacement pavement shall conform to and match that in the
adjacent pavement area.
   E.   Bituminous Concrete Pavement Surface:
      1.   Where the existing pavement surface is bituminous concrete and the
base consists of a rigid material such as brick or portland cement concrete,
the base replacement shall consist of eight inch (8") portland cement concrete
base course. Portland cement concrete shall be as noted in subsection D of this
section.
      2.   The surface replacement shall consist of a bituminous prime coat, a
one and one-half inch (11/2") binder course and a one and one-half inch (11/2")
minimum surface course conforming to the requirements of the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" of the Illinois department of
transportation for bituminous concrete binder and surface course, class I.
   F.   Bituminous Plant Mix Pavement Or Bituminous Treated Surface Flexible
Base:
      1.   Where the existing pavement is bituminous plant mix material or
bituminous surface treatment and the base consists of a flexible material such
as gravel, crushed stone, bituminous aggregate mixture, pozzuolanic material or
soil cement, the base replacement shall consist of a six inch (6") compacted
thickness of bituminous base course conforming to the "Standard Specifications
For Road And Bridge Construction" of the Illinois department of transportation
and special provisions thereof.
      2.   The surface replacement shall be as specified in subsection E of
this section.
   G.   Concrete Sidewalks, Driveways, Curb And Curb And Gutter:
      1.   Where necessary to remove and replace concrete sidewalk, driveways,
curb and curb and gutter, replacements shall be made according to the village
ordinance regulating the construction of driveways, approaches and sidewalks 1
.
      2.   Curb or curb and gutter dimensions and cross sections shall conform,
as nearly as practicable, with the existing installations; except, that at
intersections with a sidewalk that does not conform to state of Illinois
handicap requirements, sufficient depressed curb and gutter along with sidewalk
shall be replaced to meet said handicap specifications. One-half inch (1/2")
preformed expansion joints shall be placed at intervals not exceeding fifty
feet (50') and at the junction with existing work. Saw cut crack control
contraction joints shall be made every twenty feet (20') (minimum) and shall be
a minimum of one-half inch (1/2") in depth. Sidewalks shall be finished to
match existing adjacent sidewalk surfaces. Extra broom finish shall be required
on all handicap sidewalk sections. Replacement of the sidewalk at street curbs
shall meet all current state and/or federal requirements for accessibility.
   H.   Cultivated Lawns: Topsoil, seeding, sodding, and care of grass shall be
provided during the establishment period for a complete surface restoration of
lawns, parkways, and other areas disturbed as a result of the construction.
      1.   Topsoil:
         a.   Topsoil shall be furnished and properly placed, raked, and rolled
to a minimum depth of four inches (4"). The topsoil furnished shall consist of
loose, friable, loamy, nonacid soil, having at least ninety percent (90%)
passing a no. 10 sieve, free of large roots, brush, sticks, weeds, stones
larger than one-fourth inch (1/4") in diameter, and any other debris.
         b.   Before topsoil is placed, the area to be covered shall be brought
to the proper grade. If the existing surface has become hardened or crusted, it
shall be raked or otherwise loosened to provide a suitable bond with the
topsoil.
         c.   Commercial grade fertilizer shall be uniformly applied at a rate
of twenty (20) pounds per one thousand (1,000) square feet. The fertilizer
shall be worked into the soil prior to seeding or sodding.
      2.   Sodding:
         a.   Sod shall be provided in developed areas that were grassed prior
to construction and as indicated on the drawings. Sodding shall also be used in
ditches and drainage swales and on all embankment slopes steeper than four to
one (4:1) unless protection is provided against erosion of seeding. At the
contractor's option, sodding may be substituted for seeding.
         b.   The cut sod shall be not less than two inches (2") thick. Sod,
which has been cut more than forty eight (48) hours prior to installation,
shall not be used without the approval of the village engineer.
         c.   Sod shall be placed according to IDOT standard specifications.
Sod shall be placed with edges in close contact and alternate courses
staggered. On slopes two to one (2:1) or steeper, sod shall be staked with at
least one stake for each piece of sod. Do not place sod when the ground surface
is frozen or when air temperatures may exceed ninety degrees Fahrenheit (90°F).
         d.   New sod shall be watered daily at the rate specified in the IDOT
specifications for a minimum of seven (7) days after the specified initial
watering. Village water used shall be metered and paid for by the contractor.
Any defective, dead or dying sod shall be removed and replaced up to one year
after completion of the sodding.
         e.   In ditches, the sod shall be placed with the longer dimension
perpendicular to the flow of water in the ditch. On slopes, starting at the
bottom of the slope, the sod shall be placed with the longer dimension parallel
to the contours of the ground.
      3.   Seeding:
         a.   All grassed areas disturbed by construction operations and not
receiving sod shall be seeded in accordance with the IDOT standard
specifications. Seed shall be sown between September 1 and November 1 or in the
spring from the time the ground can be worked until June 15. Do not seed in
windy weather or when the soil is very wet. Sow seed either mechanically or by
broadcasting in two (2) directions at right angles to each other to achieve an
even distribution.
         b.   After seeding, rake seed lightly into ground and roll with a
roller weighing between one hundred (100) and two hundred (200) pounds per foot
of roller width.
         c.   Immediately after rolling seeded areas, apply vegetative mulch
unless hydraulic seeding method is used. Apply mulch in accordance with the
IDOT standard specifications. Place erosion control excelsior blanket or fiber
mat on slopes steeper than three horizontal to one vertical (3:1). Unless
otherwise indicated, also place erosion control material at sides and bottoms
of ditches, swales, and all areas within ten feet (10') of catch basins in
seeded areas.
         d.   Immediately after placing erosion control matting or mulch, water
seeded areas thoroughly. Keep soil thoroughly moist until seeds have sprouted
and achieved a growth of one inch (1"). (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  12-4F-5 of this chapter and title 8, chapter 1, article B of this code.
12-4B-14: INSPECTIONS:
The village shall make periodic inspections and shall either approve that
portion of the work completed or shall notify the permittee wherein the work
fails to comply with erosion and sedimentation control plan as approved. Plans
for grading, stripping, excavating, and filling work approved by the village
shall be maintained at the site during the progress of the work. Inspections
can take place during any or all of the following:
   A.   Upon completion of installation of sediment and runoff control measures
(including perimeter controls and diversions), prior to proceeding with any
other earth disturbance or grading;
   B.   After stripping and clearing;
   C.   After rough grading;
   D.   After final grading;
   E.   After seeding and landscaping deadlines; and
   F.   After final stabilization and landscaping, prior to removal of sediment
controls. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4B-15: EXCEPTIONS:
The village board of trustees may authorize exceptions to any of the
requirements and regulations set forth in this article if the granting of the
exception will not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other
property in the vicinity of the subject property. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
ARTICLE C. SANITARY SEWERAGE FACILITIES
SECTION:
12-4C-1: Sanitary Sewer Service Required
12-4C-2: Service Areas
12-4C-3: Sewer Design
12-4C-4: Manhole Design
12-4C-5: Service Lines
12-4C-6: Tests And Inspections
12-4C-7: Vacuum Testing Manholes
12-4C-1: SANITARY SEWER SERVICE REQUIRED:
   A.   Each subdivision within the corporate limits or otherwise within the
jurisdiction of the Village, regardless of size, shall be served by public
sanitary sewerage facilities, installed and constructed at subdivider's cost,
designed in accordance with this article. Such sanitary sewerage facilities
shall be constructed throughout and to the perimeter of each subdivision to
facilitate future extension of the village sewer system to adjacent areas.
Individual septic systems may be installed in residential subdivisions of less
than ten (10) lots, provided:
      1.   No public sanitary sewer is accessible for use within one thousand
three hundred twenty feet (1,320') of the subdivision.
      2.   All requirements of the village, the county health department, and
the Illinois environmental protection agency are met.
   B.   The design of all sanitary sewerage facilities proposed for
construction or reconstruction as independent projects under village
jurisdiction shall also meet the technical requirements of this article.
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-O-19, 9-16-2024)
12-4C-2: SERVICE AREAS:
   A.   The service area shall include the entire area proposed to be
ultimately served by all or a portion of the sanitary sewer system submitted
for approval.
   B.   If oversizing on site facilities or extending the sanitary sewer system
beyond the limits of the development results in additional construction cost,
provisions shall be made for the subdivider's recapture of the incremental cost
upon submittal of all waivers of lien and paid invoices for such on site and
off site improvements.
   C.   Adequate details shall be shown on submitted drawings relative to
future sewer sizes, elevations and topography to establish the adequacy of the
proposed improvements to ultimately serve future sewer extensions. (Ord. 2004-
06, 4-19-2004)
12-4C-3: SEWER DESIGN:
   A.   Sanitary Sewage Flow From Residential Development: Sanitary sewage flow
used in developing design average flow from residential areas shall be computed
using not less than one hundred (100) gallons per capita per day, and the
design peak flow need not exceed four hundred (400) gallons per capita per day
but shall not be less than two hundred fifty (250) gallons per capita per day.
   B.   Sanitary Sewage Flow Estimation (Residential):
      1.   Sanitary sewage flow from both single-family and multiple- family
residential areas shall be based on the population after full development of
the area. For areas where the details of a proposed development are known,
population shall be estimated as follows:
 
Type Of Dwelling Unit  Number Of Persons
Studio                 1
1 bedroom apartment    1.5
2 bedroom apartment    3
3 bedroom apartment    3
Single-family dwelling 3.5
Mobile home            2.25
 
      2.   For undeveloped residential areas where the details of future
development are not known, design population per acre shall be estimated based
on the zoning classification and any comparable developments within the
village.
   C.   Sanitary Sewage Flow Estimation (Other Than Residential):
      1.   In other than residential areas, estimated sanitary sewage flow
shall be based on the type of development and the following table:
 
                                       Average Flow (Gal/ Maximum Flow For
Type Of Establishment Unit             Day/Unit)          Sewer Design (Gal/
                                                          Day/Unit)
Shopping center       Store employee   30                 120
                      (1 shift)
Office                Person (1 shift) 25                 100
Industrial            Person (1 shift) 35                 140
Restaurant            Meal served      7                  30
Theater               Per seat         5                  20
Hotel                 Per guest        100                400
 
      2.   For other than residential developments where the details of the
development are not established, sanitary sewage flow shall be estimated by the
design engineer and approved by the village engineer. Such approval shall not
relieve the subdivider of the responsibility of providing adequate sanitary
sewers to meet any and all future requirements within the development.
   D.   Design Formula:
      1.   Sanitary sewers shall be designed to provide adequate capacity
without surcharge for the design flow in accordance with the Illinois
recommended standards for sewage systems.
      2.   Design flow at any point in the system shall be the total of the
allowable infiltration at that point, plus sanitary sewage flow from the fully
developed service area (computed in accordance with subsections B and C of this
section), plus all potential additional flow from the ultimate service area.
Infiltration shall not exceed two hundred (200) gallons per twenty four (24)
hours per mile per inch diameter of the sewer pipe for any section of the
system at any time during its service life.
   E.   Design Details:
      1.   Pipe And Joint Types: Include peak factor formula. Sanitary sewer
pipe and the joint specification required for the various types of pipe shall
be as follows:
 
Pipe Material            Joint                Pipe
Ductile iron pipe        ANSI-21.51 CL52      ANSI A-21.11
PVC SDR 26               ASTM D-3034          ASTM D-3212
Reinforced concrete pipe ASTM C-76            ASTM C-443
Prestressed concrete     AWWA C-301           AWWA C-301
pressure pipe
                                              Rubber ring, bell and spigot.
PCV pressure pipe        ASTM D-2241 (SDR 26) Exposed pipe: solvent weld,
                                              threaded or flanged
 
      2.   Minimum Size: No sanitary sewer shall be less than eight inches (8")
in diameter.
      3.   Alignment: Sewers with diameters less than twenty four inches (24")
shall be laid straight in both horizontal and vertical planes between manholes.
      4.   Location: All sanitary sewers shall be located in the parkway
opposite that of the village water main or in easements as approved by the
village engineer.
      5.   Sewer Size Changes: Under normal conditions, when sanitary sewers of
different diameters join, the invert elevations shall be adjusted to maintain a
uniform energy gradient. The alignment of the 0.8 depth points of the sewers
will be accepted as meeting this requirement.
      6.   Dewatering: Prior to pipe laying and jointing, the trench shall be
sufficiently dewatered to maintain the water level in the trench at or below
the base of the bedding.
   F.   Bedding: Bedding shall be provided for all sanitary sewers constructed
in trench in accordance with subsection
12-4B-12A of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4C-4: MANHOLE DESIGN:
   A.   A monitoring manhole is required immediately outside (or as directed by
the village engineer) of any nonresidential building. The monitoring manhole
shall be in accordance with standard detail S1.
   B.   Manholes shall be provided at all changes in grade, size or alignment
and at a maximum of four hundred feet (400'), center to center of manhole, for
straight pipe sections unless otherwise approved by the village engineer.
Manholes shall be no less than forty eight inches (48") in diameter and shall
be constructed with an external chimney seal such as Infra-Shield or equal, in
accordance with the sanitary manhole detail. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4C-5: SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Description: A "sanitary sewer service line", for the purposes of these
standards, is defined as a pipe designed to receive flow from a single
building, extending from the sewer to the building.
   B.   Minimum Diameter/Material: The minimum diameter of sanitary sewer
service lines from any residential dwelling unit is four inches (4"), and the
minimum diameter sewer service line from other than residential units shall be
six inches (6"). All nonresidential and service lines greater than six inches
(6") shall be connected into a manhole at the point of connection to the sewer.
Allowable service materials are ductile iron and PVC as specified in subsection
12-4C-3E of this article.
   C.   Design Standards: Capacity requirements and design details described in
subsections
12-4C-3E and F and section
12-4C-4 of this article for sanitary sewers shall apply to sanitary sewer
service lines, except the minimum slope shall be one-eighth inch (1/8") per
foot.
   D.   Plugs: In those instances when the service line is not immediately
connected to the building to be served, it shall be tightly plugged, using a
plug provided by the pipe manufacturer for such use.
   E.   Sanitary Sewer Service Line Connections: When sanitary sewer service
lines are constructed as part of the same project as the sewer, they shall be
connected to the sewer using a wye. Where a sanitary sewer service line is to
connect to an existing sewer, or where specific approval has been granted by
the village engineer for the construction of a service line after the
completion of the sewer main or lateral, the connection shall be made by one of
the methods detailed below:
      1.   Install a manhole.
      2.   Circular saw cut sewer using proper tools. Install a hub wye saddle
including stainless steel straps in accordance with manufacturer's
recommendations.
      3.   Using a pipe cutter, neatly and accurately cut out desired length of
pipe for insertion of proper fittings. Use "Band- Seal" couplings and shear
rings and clamps to fasten the inserted fitting. Follow manufacturer's
recommendations for the installation. Cement joints are prohibited. Risers
shall be required for services where sewers are over twelve feet (12') deep and
shall extend within eight feet (8') of finished grade as a minimum.
   F.   Temporary Closures:
      1.   Place a four inch by four inch by thirty six inch (4"x4"x36") long
hardwood stake flush with the ground surface at the property line with the
ground surface at the property line directly opposite the end of the service
line.
      2.   Where service piping has been installed, make connection to the
building piping system.
      3.   Keep a record on forms available from the engineer of branch
fittings, riser pipes, and service lines by measurement to the nearest
downstream manhole.
      4.   Deliver the records to the village engineer upon completion of the
project, for approval and acceptance.
   G.   Sewer Depth: Sanitary sewers shall be constructed sufficiently deep so
as to prevent freezing. For the purposes of this specification, a depth of
twenty two feet (22') to the sewer invert shall be required. ln addition,
sewers shall be sufficiently deep to provide gravity service for all sanitary
sewage within the service area, both existing and future, assuming all present
and future basement floor drains and sanitary fixtures below finished grade
will be connected to ejector pumps discharging to the sanitary sewers. Maximum
depth of any sanitary sewer shall be twenty five feet (25'). Sewers deeper than
twenty feet (20') shall be constructed of ductile iron pipe. Cover for force
main shall be in accordance with subsection
12-4E-6D of this chapter.
   H.   Water Main Protection: The requirements relative to water main
protection set out in article E of this chapter are applicable to sanitary
sewer facility construction. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4C-6: TESTS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Methods Of Testing: Test sewers and service connections for
watertightness by the low pressure air testing or exfiltration or infiltration
method as selected by the village engineer.
   B.   Leakage Tests:
      1.   Low Pressure Air Test:
         a.   Prior to testing for leakage, flush and clean the sewers by
passing a snug fitting inflated rubber ball through the sewer by upstream water
pressure.
         b.   Seal pipe openings with airtight plugs and braces.
         c.   Whenever the sewer to be tested is submerged under groundwater,
insert a pipe probe by boring or jetting into the backfill material adjacent to
the center of the sewer to determine the groundwater hydrostatic pressure by
forcing air to flow slowly through the probe pipe.
         d.   Add air to the plugged sewer sections under test until internal
air pressure reaches 4.0 psig greater than any groundwater hydrostatic
pressure.
         e.   Allow at least two (2) minutes for air temperature to stabilize
and adding air to maintain the initial test pressure.
         f.   Shut off the air supply after stabilizing the air temperature and
record the time in seconds for the internal sewer pressure to drop from 3.5
psig to 2.5 psig greater than any groundwater hydrostatic pressure.
         g.   Total rate of air loss not to exceed 0.0030 cubic feet of air per
minute per square foot of internal pipe area.
         h.   If the air test fails to meet these requirements, locate and
repair, or remove and replace the faulty sections of sewer in a manner approved
by the engineer, as necessary to meet the allowable limits upon retesting.
         i.   Do not use acrylamid gel sealant to correct leakage.
      2.   Water Exfiltration Test:
         a.   Seal the section of sewer to be tested by inserting inflatable
rubber stoppers or by other means approved by the village engineer.
         b.   Fill the manhole and pipe with water to a point two feet (2')
above the top of the sewer at the upper manhole or, if groundwater is present,
two feet (2') above the average adjacent groundwater level, for a period of not
less than twenty four (24) hours prior to measuring leakage.
         c.   Measure the leakage by the amount of water added to maintain the
water level at that level for a period as required by the engineer, but not
less than one hour.
      3.   Water Infiltration Test:
         a.   If, in the opinion of the village engineer, excessive groundwater
(a minimum of 24 inches above the top of the sewer) is encountered in the
construction of a section of the sewer, the exfiltration test shall not be
used.
         b.   Close the end of the sewer at the upper structure sufficiently to
prevent the entrance of water.
         c.   Pump out groundwater in the sewer to allow the infiltration to
come to equilibrium, then test for infiltration.
      4.   Additional Regulations:
         a.   Allowable limits for water infiltration or exfiltration test not
to exceed two hundred (200) gallons per inch of pipe diameter per twenty four
(24) hours per mile of sewer, including building service connections.
         b.   Provide and use measuring devices approved by the village
engineer.
         c.   Provide water, materials, and labor for making required tests.
         d.   Make tests in the presence of the village engineer, giving at
least three (3) days' advance notice of being ready for test observation.
   C.   Deflection Test For Flexible Thermoplastic Pipe:
      1.   Test the deflection in the initial one thousand two hundred feet
(1,200') of installed PVC and other flexible thermoplastic pipe and not less
than ten percent (10%) of the remainder of the sewer project at random
locations selected by the engineer.
      2.   Perform the test no sooner than thirty (30) days after backfilling
has been completed.
      3.   Perform the test by pulling a mandrel or rigid ball having a
diameter equal to ninety five percent (95%) of the inside diameter of the pipe
through the pipe from manhole to manhole without using mechanical pulling
devices.
      4.   Five percent (5%) of the base inside diameter of the PVC pipe is the
allowable deflection limit.
      5.   Wherever the deflection limitation is exceeded, uncover the pipe,
carefully replace compacted embedment and backfill material, and retest for
deflection.
      6.   In the event ten percent (10%) or more of the sewer tested exceeds
the allowable deflection limits, test the entire sewer system.
   D.   Videotaping: All public sanitary sewer extensions shall be internally
videotaped by remote camera. Tapes shall be in color of VHS format and
submitted to the village engineer for his review and approval prior to
acceptance of the sewer improvements by the village. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4C-7: VACUUM TESTING MANHOLES:
Specifications for vacuum testing manholes are as follows:
   A.   Sanitary sewer manholes shall be tested for leakage immediately after
installation.
   B.   Lift holes shall be plugged with a nonshrink grout.
   C.   Inlet and outlet pipes at the manhole shall be plugged, taking care to
securely brace the plug to avoid its being drawn into the manhole.
   D.   Vacuum test equipment shall be placed at the inside of the top of the
cone section and the seal inflated to forty (40) psi to effect a seal between
the vacuum base and structure.
   E.   A vacuum of ten inches (10") of mercury shall be drawn and the vacuum
pump shut off.
   F.   With the valve closed, the time shall be measured for the vacuum to
drop to nine inches (9").
   G.   Manhole integrity is acceptable if the time exceeds sixty (60) seconds
for a forty eight inch (48") diameter manhole, seventy five (75) seconds for a
sixty inch (60") diameter manhole, and ninety (90) seconds for a seventy two
inch (72") diameter manhole.
   H.   If the manhole fails the initial test, necessary repairs shall be made
with a nonshrink grout or other acceptable and approved materials.
   I.   Retesting shall proceed until a satisfactory test is obtained.
   J.   The contractor shall repair all visible defective joints or leaks in
the manhole even though the vacuum test requirements are met. Upon completion
of testing, the top two (2) steps shall be removed from all manholes.
   K.   Cost of equipment purchase or lease, materials and labor necessary to
conduct vacuum testing of manholes is incidental to and shall be included in
the cost bid for sanitary manhole construction. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
ARTICLE D. STORMWATER DRAINAGE
SECTION:
12-4D-1: Introduction
12-4D-2: General Project Requirements
12-4D-3: Design Criteria For Stormwater Detention
12-4D-4: Design Criteria For Surface Swales And Storm Sewers
12-4D-5: Wetlands And Floodplain Areas
12-4D-1: INTRODUCTION:
   A.   All developments within the corporate limits or under the control of
the village, regardless of size, shall include provisions for the construction
of stormwater drainage facilities designed in accordance with this article. The
design of all stormwater drainage facilities proposed for construction as
independent projects under the control of the village shall also meet the
technical requirements of this article. The requirements of articles A and B of
this chapter are also applicable to stormwater facility construction.
   B.   All development site engineering plans shall have on their face the
signed statement of a licensed professional engineer and the owner of the land
or his duly authorized attorney, to the effect that to the best of their
knowledge and belief, the drainage of surface water will not be changed by the
construction of such subdivision or any part thereof, or that if such surface
water drainage will be changed, reasonable provision has been made for
collection and diversion of such surface waters into a public area or drains
which the subdivider has a right to use, and that such surface waters will be
planned for in accordance with generally accepted engineering practices so as
to reduce the likelihood of damage to the adjoining property because of the
construction of the subdivision/development. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4D-2: GENERAL PROJECT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Surface Flow: Surface swales/ditches described in subsection
12-4D-4C of this article shall be encouraged for use as and designed in
accordance with the requirements of this article. Natural swale and
depressional storage areas shall be incorporated into stormwater facilities
design whenever practicable. Swales and ditches, together with any underground
storm sewer system, shall provide an adequate outfall for runoff from the 100-
year frequency twenty four (24) hour duration rainstorm. In areas where swales/
ditches cannot be provided, the underground storm sewer system shall be
designed for the 100-year storm condition.
   B.   Storm Sewer: Where allowed by the village engineer, storm sewers may be
constructed to drain the development and any contiguous drainage areas. The
subdivider shall submit to the village engineer two (2) copies of the storm
drainage computations.
   C.   Stormwater Detention: Stormwater detention is required and subject to
the review of the village engineer. In concept, a detention pond shall have a
high water level based on a 100-year design storm and shall have an outlet
which allows runoff no greater than that for the land in its natural state
prior to development. Previously developed sites not providing stormwater
detention must, when undergoing redevelopment and/or additions, provide
detention meeting the requirements of this article. Detention to be provided
shall be for the entire site evaluated in its natural state and shall be
constructed prior to all other improvements. This shall include mass grading
and all necessary erosion control measures.
   D.   Drainage Basin Divides: The design of stormwater drainage systems shall
not result in the interbasin transfer of drainage, unless no reasonable
alternative exists and there is no legal restraint preventing such transfer.
   E.   Lot Grading: The location and top of the foundation elevation for all
proposed structures shall be shown on the engineering drawings. Generally, the
top of the foundation of any structure must be constructed at least eighteen
inches (18") above the centerline (or back of curbs) of the abutting street.
Where foundations are lower than the street centerline, or in the case of
depressed driveways, alternate means of surface drainage diversion must be
shown to avoid structure flooding. Sufficient finished grade elevations must be
shown on the drawings to ensure positive drainage away from each structure.
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4D-3: DESIGN CRITERIA FOR STORMWATER DETENTION:
   A.   Design Criteria: Detention volume and maximum allowable release rate
shall be in accordance with the county stormwater ordinance 1 .
   B.   Design Calculations: The design calculation shall be submitted for
approval by the village engineer.
   C.   Basin Design:
      1.   Wet bottom detention basins shall be designed to be safe,
aesthetically pleasing, and available for recreational use. Wet bottom basins
shall be at least three feet (3') deep, excluding near shore banks and safety
ledges. If fish habitat is provided, at least twenty five percent (25%) of the
basin bottom shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') deep. Wet bottom basins shall
be designed to remove stormwater pollutants and designed in such a manner to
reduce nuisance problems such as embankment erosion and algae. Embankments
above normal water levels shall be either terraced or sloped at a maximum of
four to one (4:1). A safety ledge is required no greater than two feet six
inches (2'6") below the normal water level. Such ledges shall be not less than
six feet (6') wide and shall back pitch toward the basin embankment.
      2.   Dry bottom detention basins shall be designed to be safe,
aesthetically pleasing and available for multiple uses. Dry bottom detention
basins shall be designed and sized such that a minimum of eighty percent (80%)
of the bottom area shall have standing water no longer than seventy two (72)
hours for the 100-year frequency storm. The basin shall have a minimum slope of
two percent (2%), and a maximum embankment slope of twenty percent (20%).
      3.   When dry bottom detention basins are used, sedimentation basins
shall be constructed either within or upstream of the detention basin.
Sedimentation basins are required when the tributary drainage area to a dry
detention basin is greater than one acre.
   D.   Outlet:
      1.   All concentrated stormwater discharges leaving a site must be
directed into a well defined receiving channel or pipe with adequate capacity
for safe conveyance of flows from all design events.
      2.   Single pipe outlets shall have a minimum inside diameter of twelve
inches (12"). If design release rates call for smaller outlets, structures such
as perforated risers, flow control orifices, etc., shall be used. The minimum
diameter for a flow control orifice shall be two inches (2"). Orifices shall be
constructed in a manner to minimize the potential for clogging.
   E.   Fee In Lieu Of Detention: The village shall have the option of
requiring a fee of three dollars ($3.00) for each cubic foot of detention
needed in lieu of the applicant building a basin on site, provided the property
will discharge stormwater to a village approved stormwater management system
with adequate stormwater conveyance and storage capacity dedicated to site
runoff from the area containing the development.
   F.   Maintenance: Stormwater detention basins and wetlands shall be
maintained by the property owner or a functioning property owners' association
unless otherwise agreed by ordinance of the village. This includes, but is not
limited to, control of algae growth and mosquito abatement. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-
19-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 9 of this code.
12-4D-4: DESIGN CRITERIA FOR SURFACE SWALES AND STORM SEWERS:
   A.   Storm Sewer:
      1.   When storm sewer construction is permitted, storm sewers shall be
designed to flow full, using Manning's formula with an appropriate roughness
coefficient based on pipe material. If a storm sewer is designed with a
constantly submerged outfall, the sewer shall be designed using the "hydraulic
gradient" with a maximum allowable water level elevation at the top of the
street curb in urban areas and at an elevation one foot (1') below centerline
of pavement in rural areas.
      2.   The rational method shall be employed when computing storm runoff. A
10-year storm shall be used for design purposes. The storm system shall be
designed with "positive street and swale drainage" such that in the event of a
complete storm system failure, stormwater runoff will be directed overland to
the stormwater detention area in a manner to minimize property damage due to
flooding.
      3.   Storm sewers shall be designed for a 10-year storm event flowing
full and have a maximum velocity not to exceed ten feet (10') per second.
      4.   In areas where curb and gutter and storm sewers are approved, inlets
shall be installed so that the distance between each inlet shall not exceed
four hundred feet (400'), and each inlet shall drain a maximum street gutter
length of four hundred feet (400'). Where the inlet is located at a low point,
the village engineer may require additional inlets. No more than two (2) inlets
shall be interconnected. Inlets shall be so located that stormwater runoff will
not "pond" greater than the top of the street curbs. Depressed street crowns to
facilitate drainage will not be permitted. Storm sewer design shall follow the
inlet to catch basin to manhole configuration.
      5.   Yard inlets shall be placed only where approved or as required by
the village engineer and director of public works. Yard inlets will be no
further than four hundred feet (400') from any storm sewer main located in the
ROW. The yard inlet shall have no deflection in the piping and will connect to
either a storm catch basin or storm manhole located in the ROW.
      6.   The minimum size storm sewer shall be twelve inches (12") in
diameter, and the minimum size inlet connection shall be ten inches (10") in
diameter.
      7.   Unless otherwise approved by the village engineer, storm sewers
shall be reinforced concrete pipe conforming to ASTM 076 minimum class III with
O-ring joints conforming to ASTM C443. All inlet connections shall be concrete
sewer pipe, ASTM C14 for extra strength pipe.
      8.   Minimum cover shall be generally two and one-half feet (2.5') for
all storm sewers.
      9.   All manholes, inlet manholes, inlets and catch basins, and headwalls
shall be designed in accordance with the standard details of the village. Prior
to acceptance of the installation, the top two (2) steps shall be removed from
all structures.
      10.   Connections to sanitary sewers or existing agricultural drainage
systems (tiles) will not be permitted for any new developments. All
developments will utilize separate drainage systems to avoid disruption or
overloading of the existing agricultural tile drainage system. Any field tile
systems cut during the process of land development must be reconnected.
Connection of existing agricultural drain tiles to new stormwater management
systems may be approved if proper allowance for flows from said tiles is
incorporated in the new system design.
      11.   Special environmental catch basins are required when, in the
opinion of the village engineer or the director of public works, the storm
sewer system could receive runoff containing pollutant materials considered
hazardous, such as gasoline or oil from various types of development sites such
as auto service or repair stations. The special catch basin must be capable of
trapping and storing a minimum of one hundred (100) gallons of floatable
material above the outlet.
   B.   Culverts: Culverts shall meet the following minimum standards:
      1.   Minimum pipe diameter of twelve inches (12").
      2.   Corrugated metal pipe (CMP) shall be hot dipped galvanized steel or
aluminum steel conforming to AASHTO M36. Provide 16-gauge CMP for pipe diameter
twenty one inches (21") and smaller. Provide 12-gauge CMP for pipe diameters
twenty four inches (24") and larger.
      3.   Reinforced concrete pipe (RCP) shall conform to ASTM C76, minimum
class III.
      4.   Culvert slope and invert elevations shall match the ditch slope and
invert elevations.
      5.   Minimum cover at driveways shall be six inches (6").
   C.   Swales/Ditches: Ditches and culverts may be used in lieu of storm
sewers if curbs and gutters are not required. Ditches shall meet the following
minimum standards.
      1.   Minimum grade of one and one-half percent (1.5%).
      2.   Maximum grade of ten percent (10%).
      3.   Minimum depth of twenty four inches (24") below the shoulder of the
street.
      4.   Maximum bank slope of four to one (4:1) under normal conditions.
      5.   The bottom and banks of ditches with grades between four percent
(4%) and eight percent (8%) shall be sodded and equipped with permanent ditch
checks.
      6.   The bottom and banks of ditches with grades between eight percent
(8%) and ten percent (10%) shall be paved or otherwise stabilized as approved
by the village engineer.
      7.   Whenever practicable, all areas of the property must be provided an
overland flow path that will pass the one hundred (100) year flow at a stage at
least one foot (1') below a building's lowest opening in the vicinity of the
flow path. Overland flow paths designed for flows in excess of the minor
drainage system capacity shall be provided in drainage easements. Street
ponding and flow depths shall not exceed curb heights. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-
2004)
12-4D-5: WETLANDS AND FLOODPLAIN AREAS:
   A.   Detention In Wetlands:
      1.   Existing "wetlands", as defined in section
12-1-3 of this title, shall not be modified for the purposes of stormwater
detention. The village board may waive this restriction if it can be
demonstrated that the wetland is highly degraded and would benefit from
detention related improvements.
      2.   Existing depressional storage in wetlands shall be maintained or
compensated on a one to one (1:1) basis. The volume of detention storage
required to meet the requirements of this section shall be in addition to any
existing depressional storage.
      3.   Prior to discharge, all stormwater runoff shall be routed through a
detention/sedimentation basin designed to capture the two (2) year, twenty four
(24) hour event and hold it for an average of twenty four (24) hours before
release.
      4.   The provisions of article B of this chapter shall apply to all work
in or adjacent to existing "wetlands" as defined in section
12-1-3 of this title.
   B.   Construction In Wetlands 1 :
      1.   If jurisdictional wetlands are part of a stormwater management
system that proposes topographic change activities involving excavation and/or
deposition within the wetlands, a permit will be required from the U.S. army
corps of engineers (COE).
      2.   As a condition of village approval of any stormwater management
system, including all detention areas, swales, sewers, berms, etc., which
involve jurisdictional wetlands and prior to submission of the final plat of
the subdivision to the planning and zoning commission, a permit shall be
obtained from the COE, or if a permit is not required, a sign off letter from
the COE must be provided.
   C.   Construction In Floodplain: If construction activities are necessary in
the regulatory floodplain, all requirements of the county stormwater ordinance
shall be met 1 .
   D.   Endangered Species:
      1.   In conformance with the endangered species protection act, effective
December 3, 1990, the village is required to consult with the Illinois
department of natural resources, office of conservation (IDNR/OC), prior to
preliminary platting of certain land developments.
      2.   As a condition of village approval of such plats, a determination
must be obtained from IDNR/OC, either stating that no further consultation is
required or stating recommendations for minimizing or avoiding impacts on
endangered species.
      3.   Although the application for an IDNR/OC determination will be filed
by the village, the subdivider will be required to prepare the application and
to provide any subsequent documentation which may be requested to conform with
the intent of the act. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 10, chapter 8 of this code.
1 1. See title 10, chapter 9 of this code.
ARTICLE E. WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
SECTION:
12-4E-1: Introduction
12-4E-2: General Design Considerations
12-4E-3: Capacity Of Mains
12-4E-4: Fire Hydrants
12-4E-5: Valves
12-4E-6: General Design Details For Mains (6 To 24 Inch Diameter)
12-4E-7: Connections To Existing Mains
12-4E-8: Service Lines
12-4E-9: Protection Requirements
12-4E-10: Testing And Disinfection
12-4E-11: Workmanship
12-4E-1: INTRODUCTION:
   A.   All developments within the corporate limits and any development under
village jurisdiction which is greater than five (5) acres in size or consists
of ten (10) lots or more shall include provisions for a complete water supply
system and the construction of water distribution facilities, complete with
valves, fire hydrants and other appurtenances designed in accordance with this
article. As a minimum, the distribution system shall include a system of water
mains and service lines between a connection or connections to the existing
distribution system at approved locations, as well as continuation of
distribution mains to the extremities of a development to facilitate future
extensions of the village water main system to adjacent areas.
   B.   The design of all water distribution system facilities proposed for
construction as independent projects under the village jurisdiction shall also
meet the technical requirements of this article.
   C.   No private water wells shall be allowed on property within the village
corporate limits if a public water main exists within two hundred fifty feet
(250') of the nearest point of the property in question.
   D.   The requirements of articles A and B of this chapter are also
applicable to water distribution system construction. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4E-2: GENERAL DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS:
   A.   Extensions to the distribution system shall include feeder mains and
distribution mains.
   B.   All water mains shall be located in the parkway, opposite that of the
sanitary sewer, approximately ten feet (10') from the property line.
   C.   There shall be required to be constructed dual water mains hairpin
within a cul-de-sac to conform with the village requirement to provide a looped
water main system except in the event a lot at the end of the cul-de-sac, a
minimum of forty feet (40') in width, is dedicated to the village for water
main looping purposes. When a hairpin water main is constructed, the following
center to center spacing between mains will be required:
      1.   Four feet (4') c-c for main eight inches (8") in diameter and
smaller.
      2.   Five feet (5') c-c for main ten inches (10") in diameter and larger.
   D.   Fire service mains shall be no less than six inches (6") in diameter or
the diameter of the smallest riser, whichever is greater. Fire service mains
also shall be "looped", having two (2) points of connection to the water
distribution main when either a building exceeds fifty two thousand (52,000)
square feet in area, or when a single feed fire service main will exceed three
hundred feet (300') in length. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4E-3: CAPACITY OF MAINS:
Feeders and distribution mains shall be sized to provide sufficient capacity to
deliver the required fire flow to all areas served by the proposed construction
with consumption at the maximum daily rate.
   A.   Required Fire Flow:
Type Of Development Fire Flow (gpm)
Type Of Development            Fire Flow (gpm)
Single-family residential      1,000
Multiple-family residential    2,500
Commercial/business (general)  2,400
Office/research                2,500
General manufacturing          3,000
Commercial/business (downtown) 3,500
Institutional                  3,500
High risk manufacturing        3,500
 
These rates are based on the latest "Fire Suppression Rating Schedule" of the
ISO (insurance service office) and must be available while maintaining a twenty
(20) psi residual pressure.
   B.   Maximum Day Consumption:
      1.   For purposes of water main design, maximum day consumption in
residential areas shall be based on a minimum of two hundred (200) gallons per
capita per day, with population estimated in accordance with subsection
12-4C-3B of this chapter.
      2.   In other than residential areas, maximum day consumption shall be
based on the following:
Establishment Unit Gallons/Day/Unit
Establishment   Unit               Gallons/Day/Unit
Shopping center Employee (1 shift) 105
Store           Employee (1 shift) 65
Office          Employee (1 shift) 50
Industrial      Employee (1 shift) 75
Restaurant      Meal served        15
Theater         Per seat           10
Hotel           Per guest          210
 
      3.   To the above shall be added all process water requirements.
      4.   For other than residential developments, when the details of the
development are not known, the design engineer, subject to the approval of the
village engineer, shall estimate maximum day consumption and fire flow. Such
approval shall not relieve the subdivider of the responsibility of providing
adequate main capacity for any and all future developments within the
development. In such cases, minimum main size shall be twelve inches (12").
   C.   Storage: Sufficient storage shall be designed and constructed to
provide sufficient water to the distribution system (1,000 gallons per minute
residential or 2,500 gallons per minute industrial/commercial) for a six (6)
hour period. Water supply facilities with excess capacity may be used to offset
up to fifty percent (50%) of the required storage volume. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-
2004)
12-4E-4: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Spacing: Each subdivision, at the subdivider's cost, shall be served by
fire hydrants which shall be installed by the subdivider at the subdivider's
cost along all water mains with such fire hydrants being constructed at a
maximum spacing of four hundred feet (400'). However, notwithstanding such
spacing requirement, under no circumstance shall the most remote part of the
buildable portion of any lot in the subdivision be more than three hundred feet
(300') from any fire hydrant with the most remote part of any lot within the
subdivision no farther than three hundred feet (300') from a hydrant. Such
hydrants shall be constructed within public rights of way if the subdivision
contains public rights of way.
      1.   Fire hydrants are required to be located a minimum of three feet
(3') clear distance from the closest point to any paved vehicular traffic
surface and a minimum of two feet (2') from any paved pedestrian traffic
surface.
      2.   Fire hydrants shall be no closer than eight feet (8') from any
streetlight installations.
   B.   Distance: The maximum distance from a hydrant to a fire department
connection shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet (150').
      If there is any conflict between the spacing requirements set forth in
this section 12-4E-4, the most restrictive shall control.
   C.   Materials And Installation: Fire hydrants shall meet AWWA C-502
standards and shall satisfy the criteria of waterous pacer model WB 67-2 50 or
equal, as determined by the Village's public works director, with a five and
one- fourth inch (5¼") valve opening, two (2) 2½-inch hose nozzles and one
pumper nozzle. Threads shall conform with the National Hose Thread
specifications. Construction shall conform to that indicated on the fire
hydrant standard detail submitted by the subdivider and which shall be approved
by the Village. Each hydrant shall be equipped with an auxiliary gate vale
complete with roadway box, fitted with adapter II or equal, Tyler 6645 valve
box and valve box adaptor II or equal. Hydrants shall be installed no closer
than three feet (3') to the face of the hydrant steamer port (pumper nozzle),
nor further than eight feet (8') from the back curb. No hydrant shall be
installed within forty eight inches (48") of any obstruction, nor shall any
obstruction be placed within forty eight inches (48") of a hydrant.
   D.   Hydrant Flags: The subdivider, at the subdivider's cost, will be
responsile for installing one hydrant flag for each hydrant installed in such
subdivision. Each flag will be spring type, four feet by three-eighths inch
(4'x3/8") and applicable to a 2.5 inch hydrant port.
   E.   Painting: All hydrants shall be color coded according to the National
Fire Protection Association (NFPA) publication 291, "Fire Flow Testing And
Marking Of Hydrants".
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-O-19, 9-16-2024)
12-4E-5: VALVES:
   A.   Spacing: For multi-family zoning construction, water main valves shall
be spaced at a minimum of six hundred feet (600'), or at a distance such that
in the event of a required shut down of the public main, no more than twenty
four (24) units shall be out of water service, whichever results in the
shortest valve spacing.
   B.   Vaults: All valves proposed to be placed under pavement shall be
installed in four foot (4') diameter precast concrete vaults conforming to ASTM
C-478 as detailed in the valve vault detail. Vaults shall be constructed with
an external chimney seal, such as Infi-Shield or equal. All other valves and
auxiliary valves at fire hydrants shall be installed in cast iron valve boxes
fitted with adaptor II or equal. Butterfly valves shall be installed in
specially designed vaults similar in general design to that shown in the valve
vault detail, but modified as necessary to provide for the proper operation of
the valve. Vaults and boxes shall not be allowed under driveways. Prior to
acceptance of the installation, the top two (2) steps shall be removed for the
valve vaults. Grating shall be required on precast concrete flared end sections
for pipe sizes with diameters of twelve inches (12") or greater.
   C.   Valve Box: All valves fitted with a valve box shall have a valve box
adapter II or equal.
   D.   Types:
      1.   All valves smaller than twelve inches (12") shall be AWWA C-509,
cast iron body, bronze fitted, modified wedge disc, resilient seat type with
nonrising stem and O-ring packing designed for two hundred (200) pound working
pressure, Mueller A2360-20.
      2.   All valves twelve inches (12") and larger shall be butterfly valves
Mueller B-3211-20 iron body rubber seat type conforming to AWWA C-504, latest
edition, class 150-B. All valves shall open counter clockwise with nonrising
stem (except hand valves). (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4E-6: GENERAL DESIGN DETAILS FOR MAINS (6 TO 24 INCH DIAMETER):
   A.   Ductile Iron Pipe, Fittings And Joint Type:
      1.   Provide ductile iron pipe complying with ANSI A21.51, thickness
special class 52, with joints complying with ANSI A21.11. External coating
shall be standard, as specified for general use in ASA specification A21.51.
      2.   Use internal cement lining complying with ANSI A21.4 or AWWA C-205,
standard thickness.
      3.   Whenever river crossing pipe is required, provide restrained joint,
or ball and socket type joints allowing fifteen degrees' (15°) maximum
deflection.
      4.   Use ductile iron fittings with mechanical joint complying with ANSI
A21.10 or A21.53. Use internal cement lining complying with ANSI A21.4,
standard thickness.
   B.   Polyethylene Encasement: All ductile iron pipe water main shall be
wrapped with polyethylene material conforming to AWWA C-105-77 or ANSI 21.5,
with a minimum thickness of eight (8) mils. This specification may be waived
based on a report by the Ductile Iron Pipe Research Association or other
approved testing laboratory which would declare the soil for the subject
installation noncorrosive.
   C.   PVC Plastic Pipe And Joints:
      1.   Provide polyvinyl chloride pipe complying with AWWA C-900 for class
150-pressure pipe with a standard dimension ratio of 18.
      2.   Pipe fourteen inch (14") through eighteen inch (18"), use pipe with
a pressure rating of two hundred thirty five (235) psi and a standard dimension
ratio of 18.
      3.   Pipe twenty inch (20") and twenty four inch (24"), use pipe with a
pressure rating of one hundred sixty five (165) psi and a standard dimension
ratio of 25.
      4.   All plastic water mains shall be installed with a minimum 10-gauge
solid copper tracer wire. The wire shall be continuous through valve vaults and
boxes and shall be accessible at the vault frame or box cover.
   D.   Depth Of Cover: The depth between the finished grade and the top of the
water main shall be not less than six feet (6') nor more than seven feet (7').
Where conflicts arise with other underground improvements, greater depths will
be allowed.
   E.   Thrust Blocks: Blocking to prevent movement of mains under pressure at
bends and fittings shall be portland cement concrete, a minimum of twelve
inches (12") thick, placed between solid ground and the fittings in such a
manner that pipe fittings and joints will be accessible for repairs. All bends
of twenty two and one-half degrees (221/2°) or greater, and all tees and plugs
shall be thrust protected to prevent movement of the line under pressure.
Thrust protection may also be attained by the use of a combination of retaining
glands and threaded rods.
   F.   Trench: Minimum trench width shall be ample for proper jointing, but in
no case less than one foot six inches (1'6"). Bedding and backfill shall be as
specified in section
12-4B-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4E-7: CONNECTIONS TO EXISTING MAINS:
   A.   All connections to the village water distribution system shall be made
under full water service pressure. The following specifications shall apply
when pressure connections are made to the existing village distribution system:
      1.   Tapping sleeves:
         a.   Use two (2) piece stainless steel bolted sleeve type with
mechanical joint, Mueller H615 or Smith Blair 665 stainless steel sleeve.
         b.   Provide joint accessories.
      2.   Tapping valves:
         a.   Use fully ported gate valves complying with AWWA C-500.
         b.   Use mechanical joints type, Mueller A2360-20.
   B.   Installation Provisions: Tapping valves shall be placed in precast
concrete vaults as specified in subsection
12-4E-5B of this article in accordance with the "pressure connection" detail.
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4E-8: SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Description: A water service line is designed to deliver water from a
public water distribution main, and extended from the main to a single
building, and includes corporation stop, curb stop and service box. Service
lines shall be approximately at right angles to the centerline of the right of
way whenever possible, and enter the site within five feet (5') of the side lot
line. Service lines shall be continuous with no splices between either the
corporation and the curb stop or the curb stop and the house meter.
   B.   The following meter installation provisions are required by this title:
      1.   Meters:
         a.   No more than three feet (3') of any type K copper service line
shall be visible before the meter connection.
         b.   Meters shall be no more than five feet (5') above the floor.
Meters located in crawl spaces shall have an access hatch no more than three
feet (3') from the meter location.
c. Conduit to the meter shall be continuous. If more than three hundred sixty
degrees (360°) in bends is anticipated, three-fourths inch (3/4") minimum
diameter conduit is required. Junction boxes are not acceptable.
         d.   Wire installation shall be by the contractor (not public works)
for meter connections where more than twenty five feet (25') of wire is
required. Wire type must be approved by the village engineer.
      2.   Service Lines: Type K soft temper seamless copper water tubing
complying with ASTM 3-88.
      3.   Service Saddles For Connecting To PVC Pipes:
         a.   Service lines connected to PVC water main shall be by means of a
number 317 Blair double strap, epoxy coated saddle or approved equal.
         b.   McDonald series no. 3805 or Mueller series no. H16000, or equal.
      4.   Corporation Stops: Mueller no. H15000 flared, or equal.
      5.   Curb Stops: Mueller no. H15204CMark II Oriseal flared or equal.
      6.   Service Boxes: Water service valves (B-box) shall be located as
close to the center of a lot as possible, but said location shall result in a
valve location no closer than two feet (2') from paved surface. B-box extension
rods shall be within two feet (2') of finished grade.
      7.   Service Taps: All service taps shall be either with a manufactured
tap coupling or double strap bronze saddle for one and one-half inches (11/2")
and larger diameter.
      8.   Water Service Lines: Water service lines shall not be connected to
fire service mains or other process lines.
      9.   Multi-Family Construction: For multi-family construction when
multiple water services are proposed, no more than three (3) individual lines
may branch from a single service tap on the public water main.
   C.   Minimum Diameter: No water service line shall be less than one inch
(1") internal diameter.
   D.   Commercial Meters: All commercial water meters must have bypass valves
which do not interfere with access to the water meter for purposes of removing
the meter for testing and/or repair. The bypass line shall also have a meter
and backflow preventer.
   E.   Residential Meters: The type and size of residential water meters shall
be as determined by the village engineer. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4E-9: PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Mains: All water main, storm sewer and sanitary sewer construction
shall meet the requirements of this subsection.
      1.   Horizontal Separation:
         a.   Whenever possible, a water main shall be laid at least ten feet
(10') horizontally from any existing or proposed sewer. A clear distance of ten
feet (10') (minimum) horizontally shall be maintained between water main and
any manhole, valve vault, catch basin or stormwater inlet structure. (See
following standard drawing.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4946fd43bb2f8dbc5218e5bd25ea5318a6e0fb88/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1955.gif]
         b.   Should local conditions prevail which would prevent a horizontal
separation of ten feet (10'), a water main may be laid closer to or in the same
trench as a storm or sanitary sewer, provided the main is laid on an
undisturbed earth shelf located to one side of the sewer and at such an
elevation that the bottom of the water main is at least eighteen inches (18")
above the top of the sewer.
         c.   If it is impossible to obtain proper horizontal and vertical
separation as stipulated in subsection A1a or A1b of this section, both the
water main and sewer shall be constructed of slip on or mechanical joint
ductile iron pipe, and be pressure tested to assure watertightness before
backfilling.
      2.   Vertical Separation:
         a.   Whenever water mains must cross house sewers, storm drains, or
sanitary sewers, the water main shall be laid at such an elevation that the
bottom of the water main is eighteen inches (18") above the top of the drain or
sewer. This vertical separation shall be maintained for that portion of the
water main located within ten feet (10') horizontally of any sewer or drain
crossed, said ten feet (10') to be measured as the normal distance from the
water main to the drain or sewer.
         b.   Where conditions exist that the minimum vertical separation set
forth in subsection A2a of this section cannot be maintained, or it is
necessary for the water main to pass under a sanitary sewer, then, within a
distance of ten feet (10') either side of the water main, the sewer or drain
shall be constructed of pressure pipe conforming to the specification for water
main materials. For storm sewer, ASTM C-361 pipe shall satisfy this
requirement. The sewer or drain line shall be supported to prevent settling and
breaking of the water main.
   B.   Service Lines: The horizontal and vertical separation between water
service lines and all sanitary sewers, storm sewers, or any drain shall be the
same as for water mains, as detailed in subsection A of this section. (Ord.
2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4E-10: TESTING AND DISINFECTION:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   The following procedures are to be strictly followed by all persons
engaged in the pressure testing and/or disinfection of public water
distribution mains and private water services three inches (3") and larger in
diameter. The requirements of these design standards and the requirements of
the Illinois environmental protection agency water permit shall be strictly
enforced.
      2.   The contractor is required to provide any and all equipment
necessary to complete the pressure testing and/or disinfection of the water
mains and services. Prior to any test, the contractor shall arrange with the
village public works department to have the required tests witnessed, and shall
give a minimum of forty eight (48) hours' advance notice.
      3.   The contractor shall not operate any valves in the existing public
water supply system. Requests for valve operations are to be made through the
public works department. Requests for valve operations shall be made twenty
four (24) hours prior to any scheduled operations or tests.
   B.   Pressure And Leakage Tests: The contractor shall pressure test all new
water mains. The contractor shall perform a preliminary test to ensure that all
segments of the system meet the leakage rates as set forth herein. When the
contractor has assured himself that the system will meet the required leakage
rates, he will arrange for witnessing of the pressure test by the village
engineer. Forty eight (48) hours' advance notice shall be given. The tests
shall be conducted as follows:
      1.   Hydrostatic Tests:
         a.   Where any section of a water line is provided with concrete
thrust blocking for fittings, the hydrostatic tests shall not be made until at
least five (5) days after installation of the concrete thrust blocking.
         b.   Disposal of wastewater from hydrostatic tests and for
disinfection shall be approved in advance by the village. Full bore flushing
shall be witnessed by the Pingree Grove fire protection district (PGFPD).
         c.   The new water mains and service lines, including valves and
hydrants, shall be subjected to a hydrostatic pressure of one hundred twenty
five (125) psi.
         d.   The test pressure shall be held for a duration of one hour
without pressure loss or further pressure application.
         e.   Each valve shall be opened and closed several times during the
test.
         f.   Careful examination of exposed pipe, joints, fittings, and valves
is required.
         g.   Joints showing visible leakage shall be remade or replaced.
         h.   Cracked pipe, defective pipe, and cracked or defective joints,
fittings, and valves shall be replaced with sound material and the test
repeated until results are satisfactory.
      2.   Leakage Test:
         a.   A metered leakage test shall be conducted after the pressure test
has been satisfactorily completed.
         b.   Duration of each leakage test shall be at least twenty four (24)
hours.
         c.   During the test, water lines shall be subjected to the normal
water pressure of the village water system.
         d.   Maximum allowable leakage shall be four (4) gallons per inch of
pipe diameter per one thousand feet (1,000') of pipe per twenty four (24) hours
as recorded by a meter approved and witnessed by the village and PGFPD.
         e.   Should any test of pipe disclose leakage greater than the maximum
allowable amount, the defective joint or joints shall be located and repaired
and the twenty four (24) hour metered leakage test repeated until the leakage
is within the specified allowance.
      3.   Service Mains: Service mains shall be considered private once they
cross over a property line, even if the main is in an easement.
   C.   Disinfection:
      1.   After all mains have been pressure tested and accepted by the
village, the contractor shall proceed to disinfect the main in accordance with
AWWA standard C-651. A chlorine concentration during disinfection shall be
maintained at a minimum fifty milligrams per liter (50 mg/l) available
chlorine. The chlorinated water shall be retained in the main for a period of
at least twenty four (24) hours. At the end of the twenty four (24) hour
period, the treated water shall contain no less than twenty five milligrams per
liter (25mg/l) chlorine throughout the main. The contractor will sample the
chlorinated disinfecting solution to assure that these minimums are maintained.
      2.   After an applicable retention period, the heavily chlorinated water
shall be flushed from the main until the chlorine concentration in the water
leaving the main is not higher than that generally prevailing in the system.
After final flushing, and as witnessed by the village public works department,
two (2) samples of water shall be obtained from the main for bacteriological
testing. The village water department shall be responsible for obtaining and
delivery of the samples for testing purposes. For major water main
installation, the number of samples may be increased as determined by the
village public works department. A second series of samples shall be collected
no less than twenty four (24) hours after the first set of samples has been
collected. The individual sets of samples shall be bacteriologically tested to
show the absence of coliform organisms.
      3.   If both sets of samples are satisfactory, all valves on the system
shall be opened with permission of the village public works department. The
contractor and the village will be furnished with copies of the bacteriological
report for their records.
      4.   If either, or both, sets of samples do not pass the bacteriological
examination, the contractor shall again disinfect the main in accordance with
procedures described in this subsection until such time that satisfactory
samples are collected. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4E-11: WORKMANSHIP:
As a minimum requirement, the specification for the construction of water
distribution facilities shall not be less stringent than the "Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois", adopted by a
joint committee of the Illinois Society Of Professional Engineers, Consulting
Engineers Council Of Illinois, Illinois chapter of the American Public Works
Association, Illinois Municipal League and the Associated General Contractors
Of Illinois. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
ARTICLE F. ROADWAYS, SIDEWALKS AND STREET LIGHTING
SECTION:
12-4F-1: Introduction
12-4F-2: Street Classification
12-4F-3: Geometrics
12-4F-4: Combination Concrete Curb And Gutter
12-4F-5: Driveways And Approaches
12-4F-6: Pavement Types
12-4F-7: Pavement Standard Design Method
12-4F-8: Subgrade Support Strength
12-4F-9: Special Requirements
12-4F-10: Sidewalks
12-4F-11: Street Lighting
12-4F-12: Signs
12-4F-13: Addressing
12-4F-1: INTRODUCTION:
   A.   All developments within the corporate limits or under the village
jurisdiction, regardless of size, shall include provisions for the construction
of roadways and appurtenant construction to serve each parcel of property
within the development. Where more than one building, other than an accessory
building, is located or planned on one parcel of property, the proposed
construction shall also include access roadways as required to serve each such
building.
   B.   The design of all roadways proposed for construction as independent
projects under the control of the village shall also meet the technical
requirements of this article.
   C.   The requirements of articles A, B and D of this chapter are also
applicable to roadway construction. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4F-2: STREET CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Certain variables in geometric and structural design discussed in this
section are dependent on the functional classification of the street in
question. For the purposes of these standards, all streets will be classified
as shown in sections
12-6-1 and
12-6-2 of this title.
   B.   In developments where more than one building is located or planned on
one parcel of property and a roadway is provided to serve such buildings, that
roadway shall be classified as residential unless otherwise established by the
village engineer. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4F-3: GEOMETRICS:
Roadway geometrics shall be as approved by the village engineer. (Ord. 2004-06,
4-19-2004)
12-4F-4: COMBINATION CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER:
   A.   Combination concrete curb and gutter shall be constructed along the
edge of all pavement except as otherwise approved by the public works director
and village engineer. Cross section, details, materials and construction shall
conform to the requirements of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction" of the Illinois department of transportation for combination
concrete curb and gutter for barrier curb type B6.12 unless otherwise approved
by the public works director and village engineer.
   B.   The curb and gutter shall be stamped with a "w" indicating the location
of a water service, and an "s" indicating the location of a sanitary sewer
service. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4F-5: DRIVEWAYS AND APPROACHES 1 :
   A.   1. Driveways meeting the requirements of this article shall be provided
at all locations where vehicular traffic is intended to leave the roadway and
move onto private property. The requirements of this article shall also apply
to driveways to be constructed in developed areas where the roadway is already
in place. The limits of driveway approaches to be constructed in compliance
with this section shall be between the roadway itself (back of curb) and the
roadway side of the sidewalk. Driveways extending through previously
constructed curbs shall be installed using a curb cutting machine approved by
the village engineer or public works director. The slope of driveways and drive
approaches shall be no less than one and one-half percent (1.5%) and no more
than ten percent (10%). Replacement of existing driveways and/or drive
approaches are exempt from this requirement. Minimum driveway widths outside
the public right of way shall be as follows:
         a.   Single car driveway: Ten feet (10').
         b.   Two (2) car driveway: Eighteen feet (18').
         c.   Three (3) car driveway: Twenty seven feet (27').
      2.   The driveway approach shall be constructed with a flare from the
public sidewalk to the roadway at a ratio of twelve to three (12:3)
(longitudinal to lateral). See the following standard driveway details.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4946fd43bb2f8dbc5218e5bd25ea5318a6e0fb88/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1957.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4946fd43bb2f8dbc5218e5bd25ea5318a6e0fb88/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1959.gif]
   B.   1.   Driveways/approaches for single-family zoning lots shall be of
portland cement concrete (PCC) or bituminous concrete. PCC shall be a minimum
of six inches (6") thick on a minimum of four inches (4") of compacted CA-6 or
grade 9 compactible crushed stone for residential driveways. Bituminous
concrete pavement shall be a minimum of two and one-half inches (21/2") of
class I surface mix on a minimum of six inches (6") compacted CA-6 or grade 9
crushed stone.
      2.   Multi-family and nonresidential driveways shall be constructed on
PCC or bituminous concrete as specified above. The PCC shall be eight inches
(8") thick minimum on a minimum of six inches (6") of compacted CA-6 or grade 9
crushed stone. One-half inch (1/2") thick preformed expansion joints shall be
provided between the back of the curb and concrete driveway pavement and
between the driveway and sidewalks. The use of pea gravel, loose gravel, or
sand is not permitted.
   C.   No manholes, inlets, valve vaults or other types of structures shall be
allowed to be constructed in a driveway.
   D.   Material and construction shall conform with the requirements of the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" of the Illinois
department of transportation for portland cement concrete driveway pavement and
the village ordinances regulating the construction of driveways and approaches.
   E.   The portland cement concrete driveway approach shall be constructed
with air entrained portland cement four percent (4%) to six percent (6%) as
specified by the state department of transportation specifications. The
concrete mix shall be a minimum of six (6) bags of portland cement per cubic
yard of concrete. All concrete driveways and approaches shall use fiberglass
reinforcement additives. The final surface of all concrete driveway approaches
shall have an appropriate sealant applied as per the state specifications. All
driveway and approach surfaces shall have a light brush finish. No chloride or
chemical additive to accelerate the curing process shall be added to the mix
that is being applied to public property or improvements. During the repair or
construction of a driveway approach, if the village engineer, building
commissioner or public works director is of the opinion that the curb on either
side of the approach is damaged beyond repair, upon notification, the owner or
contractor shall replace said curb for a distance of one foot (1') beyond the
boundaries of the approach in either or both directions.
   F.   1.   Subdivisions platted after the effective date hereof shall select
either portland cement concrete or bituminous concrete pavement for driveways
and drive approaches. The selected construction shall be consistent throughout
the platted development.
      2.   Maintenance of said approaches shall be performed by a homeowners'
association and sealed on an annual basis after the first year.
      3.   All such approaches shall be constructed with a minimum of a six
inch (6") base of compacted CA-6, grade 9 or other engineering department
approved materials and a two and one- half inch (21/2") layer of bituminous
concrete.
      4.   All qualified developers shall seek and achieve approval from the
village board to allow the use of the above specified asphalt approaches prior
to any building permits being issued for the production of the single-family
units.
   G.   Expansion joints one-half inch (1/2") thick shall be placed at
intervals of fifty feet (50') in the driveway, driveway approaches, and curbs.
These expansion joints shall consist of premolded bituminous joint filler.
Control joints shall be on five foot (5') centers within the sidewalk.
   H.   When the subgrade has been prepared and no sooner than twenty four (24)
hours prior to placing concrete, the contractor shall notify the village
engineer that forms are in place and the subgrade is ready for inspection.
Subgrade compaction tests, at the subdivider's expense, may be required where
deemed appropriate by the village engineer. No concrete shall be placed until
the subgrade has been inspected and approved. Any concrete poured prior to the
inspection of the subgrade shall, at the direction of the building
commissioner, be removed at the owner's/contractor's expense.
      1.   Residential Driveways:
         a.   Residential driveway widths shall be as follows:
            (1)   Single car: Ten feet (10').
            (2)   Two (2) car: Twenty feet (20').
            (3)   Three (3) car: Twenty seven feet (27').
         b.   Widths shall be measured at the property line. Driveway
approaches (within public right of way) shall have a flare along each side of
the approach beginning at the curb side of the public sidewalk, extending to
the back of curb at a ratio of four to one (4:1), length to width, in
accordance with the standard residential driveway detail.
      2.   Nonresidential Driveways: Nonresidential driveways shall be designed
to accommodate truck and semitruck vehicles up to and including WB 65. Minimum
lane width shall be twelve feet (12'). Minimum driveway and approach shall be
two (2) lanes (24 feet) in width. Width of approach at the back of curb, or
edge of pavement for rural sections, shall be the total lane width plus a curb
return radii to accommodate the traffic for which the development site is
designed as approved by the village engineer. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 1, article B of this code.
12-4F-6: PAVEMENT TYPES:
   A.   Pavement construction required under this section shall be portland
cement or bituminous concrete pavement in accordance with section
12-6-1 of this title.
   B.   In all cases, material and construction shall comply with the
requirements of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction",
prepared by the Illinois department of transportation, as modified by these
standards.
   C.   In areas where vehicular access is needed by the village, Pingree Grove
fire protection district or other emergency services for the purpose of
maintenance or emergency response, but said access will be infrequent as
determined by those entities, alternative paving methods previous to rainfall
may be considered. The paving material shall be cellular polyethylene
"geoblock" type or approved equal. The geoblock installation shall be capable
of supporting a seventy five thousand (75,000) load and be in accordance with
manufacturer's specifications. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4F-7: PAVEMENT STANDARD DESIGN METHOD:
When, in the opinion of the village engineer, the volume and composition of the
traffic anticipated to be carried by the pavement can be estimated within
reasonable limits and, in all cases, where the roadway is designed as a four
(4) or more lane facility, the structural design for bituminous pavements and
portland cement concrete pavement shall be based on the latest revision of the
"Federal-Aid Procedures For Local Highway Improvements". However, in no case
shall the design result in a pavement of lesser strength than those shown in
section
12-6-1 of this title. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4F-8: SUBGRADE SUPPORT STRENGTH:
Structural design procedures acceptable under this article require the
determination of the subgrade support strength. Regardless of the design method
used, a soils report shall be submitted by a soils testing laboratory, approved
by the village engineer, in which subgrade support strength is recommended.
Such recommendation shall be based on an Illinois bearing ratio no less than
3.0. Field compaction tests, where required by the village engineer to verify
conformance with the soils report recommendations, shall be provided at the
subdivider's expense. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4F-9: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bituminous Pavement: The following qualifications and requirements
shall apply to bituminous pavements regardless of design method used:
      1.   No construction required by this article shall be permitted after
November 1 without written authorization of the village engineer.
      2.   In new construction, surface course shall be placed no earlier than
twelve (12) months from the placement of the binder course unless otherwise
approved by the village engineer in writing.
      3.   Minimum acceptable IBR for subgrade is 3.0.
      4.   Where IBR for underlying soil is less than 3.0, it shall be removed
or otherwise modified as required to meet this minimum.
      5.   Minimum subbase thickness, if used, shall be four inches (4").
Minimum base course thickness shall be six inches (6"); ten inches (10") if no
subbase is used.
      6.   Minimum thickness for combined surface and binder course shall be
three inches (3").
   B.   Concrete Pavement: The following qualifications and requirements shall
apply to portland cement concrete pavement, regardless of design method used:
      1.   No portland cement concrete pavement shall be constructed in any
year after November 1 without the written approval of the village engineer and,
in no case, when frost is present in the subgrade.
      2.   All roadway medians shall have tapered approaches at both ends of
the median so as not to create an obstruction to snowplowing operations. The
tapers shall be constructed in accordance with the IDOT standard for PC
concrete islands and medians, number 606301-02.
      3.   Subbase shall be a minimum of four inches (4") thick, constructed of
granular material; except, that for major streets, stabilized granular material
shall be used.
   C.   Underground Utilities:
      1.   Structure Adjustment:
         a.   Where finished grade or alignment for existing underground
structures, such as inlet basins, catch basins, manholes or valve vaults is
affected by proposed work, the project drawings shall provide for the
adjustment of such structures as required.
         b.   Where a project is to be constructed under two (2) or more
construction contracts, one or more of which includes the construction of
pavement, the contract documents for those contracts including paving work
shall provide for the adjustment of underground structures that may be
constructed under other contracts as may be required to fit the proposed
pavement.
      2.   Utility Crossing Protection: For new construction or when required
by the village building commissioner, all sidewalks, curbs, gutters and
driveways over excavated areas or utility trenches shall be reinforced with a
minimum of two (2) no. 4 bars, twelve inches (12") on center, for a length of
twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4F-10: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Geometrics: All sidewalks shall be a minimum of four inches (4") thick.
Sidewalks shall be continuous through residential driveways with a minimum
thickness of six inches (6") through the driveway section. Sidewalks in
nonresidential areas shall be a minimum of eight inches (8") thick through
nonresidential driveways. Sidewalk width shall be as specified in section
12-6-2 of this title, or as determined by the village building commissioner
and/or public works director when a greater width is justified on the basis of
anticipated traffic. All public walks shall be a minimum of one foot (1')
outside the property line. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
   B.   Minimum Specifications: As a minimum requirement, the specifications
for the construction of sidewalk facilities shall be at least as stringent as
the requirements set out in the following standards. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004;
amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Materials: All materials shall meet the requirements of the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" of the Illinois department of
transportation. All sidewalks shall be constructed of portland cement concrete.
Concrete shall be at least a 6-bag mix, four percent (4%) to six percent (6%)
air entrained, and shall have a slump of not less than two inches (2") nor more
than four inches (4"). Fiberglass reinforced additives shall be used on all
sidewalks extending through driveways. Sidewalks shall be placed on a minimum
of four inches (4") of CA-6 crushed stone or grade 9 compatible crushed stone.
The use of pea gravel, loose gravel or sand is expressly prohibited. Absolutely
no chloride or chemical additives shall be added to the concrete mix used to
construct public improvements to accelerate the curing process.
   D.   Excavation: If, in the opinion of the building commissioner, organic
material is present at the proposed subgrade, the organic material shall be
removed to a minimum of five inches (5") below the subgrade and replaced with
compacted CA-6 crushed stone or grade 9 compacted crushed stone.
   E.   Embankment: When necessary to construct the sidewalk on fill, fill
shall be placed in six inch (6") lifts and thoroughly compacted. Embankment
shall extend one foot (1') beyond the edge of the walk. Side slopes shall not
be steeper than four to one (4:1), except as approved by the village engineer.
   F.   Subgrade Preparation: When the subgrade has been prepared and no sooner
than twenty four (24) hours prior to placing the concrete, the contractor shall
notify the village building commissioner and/or public works director that
forms are in place and the subgrade is ready for inspection. Subgrade
compaction tests, at the subdivider's expense, may be required where deemed
appropriate by the village building commissioner and/or public works director.
No concrete shall be placed until the subgrade has been inspected and approved.
   G.   Cold Weather Requirements: No concrete shall be placed when the air
temperature is below forty degrees Fahrenheit (40°F) or is between forty
degrees (40°) and forty five degrees Fahrenheit (45°F) and falling unless
approved by the village engineer, building commissioner or public works
director. The temperature of the concrete, when placed, as well as ambient air
shall not be less than fifty degrees Fahrenheit (50°F). In no case shall
concrete be placed on frozen subgrade.
   H.   Requirements For Handicapped Persons: All sidewalk construction
intersecting public or private roadways shall be ramped to meet a depressed
curb and gutter section in conformance with state of Illinois handicap
standards.
   I.   Placing And Finishing: The subgrade shall be adequately moistened
before placement. The concrete shall be thoroughly spaded along the edges,
struck off at the true grade, and finished to a true and even surface. The
surface shall be divided by grooves constructed at right angles to the
centerline of the sidewalk and shall have rounded edges. No slab shall be
longer than six feet (6') nor less than four feet (4') unless otherwise
approved by the village building commissioner. The side edges of the walk shall
also have rounded edges. The surface shall be "broom" finished.
   J.   Expansion Joints/Control Joints:
      1.   Premolded bituminous expansion joints one-half inch (1/2") thick
shall be placed every fifty feet (50') minimum and one- half inch (1/2") thick
between the sidewalk and all structures such as light standards, traffic light
standards, and traffic poles which extend through the sidewalk. Control joints
shall be on five foot (5') centers.
      2.   No manholes, inlets, valve vaults or other types of structures shall
be allowed to be constructed in a sidewalk.
   K.   Protection And Curing:
      1.   All exposed surfaces of concrete shall be protected against rain.
      2.   The concrete shall be cured for a minimum period of three (3) days
after placing by one of the following methods: wet burlap, impervious paper, or
membrane curing compound.
      3.   When the temperature of the air is expected to drop below forty
degrees Fahrenheit (40°F) within twenty four (24) hours after placing, the
concrete shall be protected with nine inches (9") of loose, dry straw and a
layer of burlap, or other acceptable material, for a period of at least five
(5) days.
      4.   All sidewalks shall be stamped with a "w" indicating the location of
a water service, and an "s" indicating the location of a sanitary sewer
service.
   L.   Sidewalk/Path Endings:
      1.   Where any sidewalk or pathway requires a tactile warning, truncated
dome or other similar conspicuity notice in order to comply with the Americans
with Disabilities Act, Illinois Accessibility Act or any similar federal, state
or local ordinance, such tactile warning shall be installed as a permanent,
cast-iron installation. Dyed and imprinted concrete, plastic plates and other
similar construction methods shall not be acceptable for tactile warnings. The
Public Works Director shall be authorized to approve of other proposed tactile
warning methodology by approving of an alternate in a specific writing limited
to that topic, with the recommendation of the Village Engineer. (Ord. 2004-06,
4-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2019-O-34, 9-16-2019)
12-4F-11: STREET LIGHTING:
   A.   Generally: All development shall include the design and construction of
street lighting facilities for the illumination of all roadways which lie in or
border the development. Street lighting shall be in conformance with the
standards and requirements established by the village engineer, in accordance
with the provisions of this code, and subject to the approval of the village
president and board of trustees. It shall be the responsibility of the
developer or subdivider to pay the installation cost of all such lighting.
Street lighting systems shall be guaranteed from date of acceptance for a
period of one year, except streetlight poles shall be guaranteed for five (5)
years. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Specifications: Street lighting improvements shall be designed and
installed in accordance with:
      1.   "American National Standard Practice For Roadway Lighting" (ANSI/IES
RP-8, 1983).
      2.   "An Information Guide For Roadway Lighting" (by AASHTO, 1984).
      3.   "The National Electrical Code" (NEC, NFPA 70, current edition).
      4.   "District One Recurring Special Provisions For Highway Lighting" (by
IDOT, latest edition).
      5.   Local codes, ordinances, and development standards of the village.
   C.   Submittals: Prior to the installation of any street lighting system,
the following submittals are required for review and approval by the village:
      1.   Layout of proposed street lighting system showing pole locations,
rights of way and any easements, cable routing, controller location, mast arm
orientation, mast arm length, and source of power.
      2.   Manufacturer's information on poles, luminaries, mast arms, cable,
conduit, controller, and appurtenances.
      3.   Voltage drop calculations and electrical characteristics.
      4.   Circuit diagrams and schematics.
   D.   Streetlight Locations In Residential, Commercial And Industrial
Districts:
      1.   Streetlights shall be no closer than eight feet (8') away from any
fire hydrant.
      2.   Unless otherwise directed by the village engineer, the direction of
the support arm shall be at right angles to the centerlines of the intersecting
streets at a four (4) legged intersection. At "T" intersections, a pole shall
be provided on the centerline extended of the terminating street at the top of
the "T" with the support arm extending toward the center of the intersection.
Between intersections, mast arms shall be orientated at right angles to the
centerline.
   E.   Light Pole Requirements:
      1.   Poles shall be in accordance with the standard details included in
this section or as approved by the village engineer and public works director.
      2.   Bracket arms shall be truss tapered elliptical arms manufactured
from aluminum alloy 6063.T6. Bracket arm shall taper to two and three-eighths
inches (23/8") at the luminaire end.
      3.   Poles shall be designed and fabricated to withstand eighty (80) mile
per hour winds and associated wind gusts and vibrations. The light poles shall
be able to support a luminaire panel up to 1.7 square feet. All poles shall be
designed in conformance with AASHTO "Standard Specifications For Structural
Supports For Highway And Traffic Signals".
      4.   Screw in type foundations may be substituted for cast in place
concrete foundations of the size appropriate for the streetlight installation
as approved by the public works department. Design calculations signed and
sealed by a licensed professional engineer must be submitted for the type of
pole/mast arm proposed. Screw in type foundations shall be manufactured by
Dixie Anchoring Systems or approved equal. Minimum material specifications for
screw in type foundations shall be as follows:
         a.   Mounting plate is standard one inch (1") thick and meets ASTM no.
A-36;
         b.   Schedule 20 pipe 0.25 wall thickness (size 8 inches and 10
inches);
         c.   Schedule 40 pipe 0.28 wall thickness (size 6 inches);
         d.   Schedules 20 and 40 meet ASTM no. A-501;
         e.   Standard wiring slot size is two inches by twelve inches (2"x12")
long and is located twelve inches (12") from the bottom of the mounting plate;
         f.   Hot dip galvanizing per ASTM no. A-153 after fabrication;
         g.   Standard inches helix meets ASTM no. A-29. Sizes are as follows:
six inches (6") pipe twelve inches (12") helix, eight inches (8") pipe fourteen
inches (14") helix, and ten inches (10") pipe fifteen inches (15") helix;
         h.   Stinger (pilot) meets ASTM no. A-575; and
         i.   Ultimate torque strength as follows:
            (1)   Six inches (6") shaft ten thousand (10,000) ft./lbs.;
            (2)   Eight inches (8") shaft fifteen thousand (15,000) ft./lbs.;
or
            (3)   Ten inches (10") shaft twenty thousand (20,000) ft./lbs.
   F.   Luminaries And Lamps:
      1.   The luminaries shall consist of a housing, reflector, reflector
holder, lamp socket, slipfitter and a three (3) terminal photoelectric cell
when required. The luminaries and lamps shall be high pressure sodium.
      2.   All fixture components shall be designed to operate under all
environmental conditions. All luminaries shall be designed and wired to operate
on sixty (60) hertz alternating current with a multiple tap high power factor
(95+%PF) regulator type ballast. All fixtures shall be designed to operate at
minus twenty degrees Fahrenheit (-20°F) (28°C) minimum starting temperature.
      3.   The type and style of luminaries shall be approved by the village.
      4.   All wire and cable installed for street lighting systems from the
power source to the lighting poles shall be contained in either three (3)
conductor thirteen inch (13") minimum diameter uniduct manufactured from high
density smooth wall polyethylene electrical plastic duct or heavywalled
galvanized steel conduit required under all pavement and driveways. Direct
burial of all wire and cable under this section is prohibited.
      5.   All wire and cable installed for street lighting systems shall be
heat and moisture resistant, type XHHW, copper wire, and be suitable for use at
seventy five degrees Celsius (75°C) (167°F) and shall have insulation rated at
600V.
      6.   The bare ground wire shall be no. 8 AWG stranded copper wire.
      7.   All wire shall be subject to an insulation test to ground after
installation. The minimum acceptable resistance to ground shall be twenty (20)
megaohms. Any section of wiring failing to pass the minimum insulation test for
any reason or showing an obvious short circuit shall be rejected. All wire,
cable and uniduct to be furnished shall be buried not less than thirty inches
(30") below finished grade. All circuits shall be tested in the presence of the
village electrical inspector.
      8.   All runs shall be continuous without splice in cable or uniduct from
pole handhole to pole handhole or to control cabinet.
      9.   Cable slack shall be provided such that there is a minimum of three
feet (3') of slack at the base of all light poles.
      10.   Adequate slack shall be provided such that the service connection
can be made without splices other than at the power source. In the case of
aerial service, rigid steel conduit for service pole riser including insulated
bushing shall be provided for a service pole riser.
      11.   When passing under concrete or asphalt surfaces, rigid galvanized
steel conduit not less than two inches (2") in diameter shall be used for
raceways for uniduct. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4F-12: SIGNS:
   A.   Traffic Control: Traffic control and regulatory signs shall be required
on the primary access roads to all subdivisions. The type, number and location
of signs shall be in accordance with the direction of the village engineer.
   B.   Street Names: The developer shall be responsible for the installation
and payment for all street name signs. Street name signs shall be in accordance
with the following:
      1.   Signs: All street name signs shall be double bladed. Local and
collector residential streets shall have four inch (4"), B, white engineer
grade reflective lettering on a six inch (6") sign blade. Major and secondary
arterial streets and all classification of industrial and commercial streets
shall have six inch (6"), B, white engineer grade reflective lettering on a
nine inch (9") street sign blade. All signs shall have green engineer grade
reflective background.
      2.   Posts And Brackets: All posts for street name signs shall be made of
galvanized steel and shall be two and three-eighths inches (23/8") in diameter
(OD). All post brackets shall be Lyle E-series bracket assembly, E-450 (or
acceptable equal) applicable for a sign blade height of six inches (6"). Street
name brackets mounted on streetlight poles shall be Lyle E-series bracket
assembly, black OLP cantilever bracket (or equal) with decorative design. Each
bracket will require a channel mounting bracket for installation. All banding
required shall be stainless steel. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
12-4F-13: ADDRESSING:
Any party seeking approval of a plat which results in the creation of any new
public or private rights of way which are proposed to have a street name and/or
the listing of any address which has not previously been approved by the
Village shall be required to submit a map of the area showing the proposed
street names and address numbers to the Village Engineer. Such map shall extend
to depict surrounding areas to the extent required by the Village Engineer. The
Village Engineer shall review such proposed map and shall comment upon it, and
shall also circulate the same to the Police Department and Pingree Grove Fire
Protection District for their review and approval. All comments from the
Engineer, Police Department and Fire Department shall be addressed and the plan
shall be revised to comply therewith. A revised plan shall be submitted for
review and approval by the Village Engineer. Upon the issuance of unconditional
approval, in writing, the party may submit the revised plan to the United
States Postal Service, with copy to the Village Engineer. The Engineer shall be
included in any discussions with the Postal Service, and if any plan revisions
are recommended, the revised plans shall be subject to a secondary review by
the Engineer, Police Department and Fire Protection District. In no event shall
any addressing plans be submitted to any party for final approval without the
Village's consent. Once a final addressing plan is approved by all parties, it
shall be provided to the Village Engineer in an electronic format designated by
the Engineer, and the Engineer shall provide the same to Kane County and to the
Village's emergency telecommunications dispatch provider. All costs incurred by
the Village during the course of such review shall be subject to reimbursement
by the party seeking approval pursuant to a Professional Fee Reimbursement
Agreement. (Ord. 2018-O-33, 12-17-2018)
CHAPTER 5
DEDICATION OF PARK LANDS AND SCHOOL SITES; FEES IN LIEU
SECTION:
12-5-1: Dedication, Cash Contribution Or Combination Required
12-5-2: Criteria For Park And Recreation Land Dedication
12-5-3: Criteria For School Site Dedication
12-5-4: Criteria For Contribution In Lieu Of Park And School Sites
12-5-5: Density Formula
12-5-6: Reservation Of Additional Land
12-5-7: Combining With Adjoining Developments
12-5-8: Topography And Grading
12-5-9: Improved Sites
12-5-10: Additional Requirements For Land Donations
12-5-11: Application To Annexed Land
12-5-12: Where And When Payments And Dedications Required
12-5-1: DEDICATION, CASH CONTRIBUTION OR COMBINATION REQUIRED:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision, or of a final plat
of a planned unit development 1 , each subdivider or developer will be required
to dedicate land for park and recreational purposes and land for school sites
to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, or
cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedication, or a combination of both,
at the option of the village and in accordance with the criteria and formula
set out in this chapter. (Ord. 2006-17, 7-17-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11, chapter 9 of this code.
12-5-2: CRITERIA FOR PARK AND RECREATION LAND DEDICATION:
   A.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required for
dedication. The total requirement shall be 10.00 acres of land per one thousand
(1,000) of ultimate population in accordance with the following
classifications:
 
Types Of Recreation Area Size Range                Minimum Acres Per 1,000
                                                   People
Play lot                 Minimum 8,000 square feet Not applicable
School-park neighborhood Minimum park of 5 acres   2.5
Neighborhood park        Minimum 3.5 acres         2.0
Districtwide park        Minimum 4 acres up to 30  2.5
                         acres
Community wide park      Minimum 12 acres          3.0
                                                   Total: 10.00 acres of land
                                                   per 1,000 people
 
   B.   Location: The comprehensive park and recreation plan and/or the
"Standards By Types Of Recreation And Park Areas", as adopted by the park
district and the village comprehensive plan, shall be used as guidelines in
locating sites. A park site adjoining all elementary school sites of not less
than five (5) acres shall be considered a requirement. A central location which
will serve equally the entire development is most desirable. In large
developments, these sites can be located throughout the development according
to established standards for park area distances.
   C.   Credit For Private Open Spaces And Recreation Areas:
      1.   When subdividers or developers provide their own open space for
recreation areas and facilities, it has the effect of reducing the demand for
local public recreational services. Depending on the size of the development, a
portion of the park and recreation area in subdivisions or planned unit
developments may, at the option of the village board, be provided in the form
of "private" open space in lieu of dedicated "public" open space. The extent of
same shall be determined by the village board, based upon the needs of the
projected residents and in conformance to the total park and recreation land
for the general area.
      2.   In general, a substitution of private open space for dedicated parks
will imply a substantially higher degree of improvement and the installation of
recreational facilities, including equipment, by the developer as part of his
obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including specifications of
facilities to be installed, must be approved by the village, and before any
credit is given for private recreation areas, the subdivider or developer must
guarantee that these private recreation areas will be permanently maintained
for such use by the execution of the appropriate legal documents. Private
"swimming clubs" are included in this provision. When an adjustment for private
recreation areas is warranted, it will be necessary to compute the total park
land dedication that would have been required from the subdivision or planned
unit development and then subtract the credit to be given. (Ord. 2006-17, 7-17-
2006)
12-5-3: CRITERIA FOR SCHOOL SITE DEDICATION:
   A.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate number of students to be
generated by a subdivision or planned unit development shall bear directly upon
the amount of land required to be dedicated for school sites. The land
dedication requirement shall be determined by obtaining the ratio of: 1)
estimated children to be served in each such school classification over the 2)
maximum recommended number of students to be served in each such school
classification as stated herein, and then applying such ratio to the 3) said
minimum recommended number of acres for a school site of each such school
classification as stated herein. The product thereof shall be the acres of land
deemed needed to have sufficient land for school sites to serve the estimated
increased children in each such school classification.
   B.   School Classification And Size Of School Site: School classification
and size of school sites within the village shall be determined in accordance
with the following criteria:
 
School Classification By   Maximum Number Of Students Minimum Number Acres Of
Grades                     For Each Such School       Land For Each School Site
                           Classification             Of Such Classification
Elementary schools, grades 670                        15
kindergarten through 5
Junior high schools,       850                        25
grades 6 through 8
High schools, grades 9     1,500                      70
through 12
 
   C.   Location: The comprehensive school plan and/or the standards adopted by
the affected school district shall be used as a guideline in locating sites.
(Ord. 2006-17, 7-17-2006; amd. Ord. 2021-O-21, 12-20-2021)
12-5-4: CRITERIA FOR CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF PARK AND SCHOOL SITES:
Where the development is small and the resulting site is too small to be
practical or when the available land is inappropriate for park and recreational
purposes or a school site, the village shall require the subdivider or
developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land dedication required.
The cash contribution in lieu of park and recreation land dedication shall be
held in trust by the village, solely for the acquisition of park and recreation
land as hereinbefore classified, which will be available to serve the immediate
or future needs of the residents of that subdivision or development or for the
improvement of other existing local park and recreation land which already
serves such needs. The cash contribution in lieu of school sites shall be held
in trust by the village or other public body designated by the village solely
for use in the acquisition of land for a school site to serve the immediate or
future needs of children from that subdivision or development, or for the
improvements to any existing school site which already serves such needs, or
for the construction of any school buildings or additions thereto. If any
portion of a cash contribution in lieu of park and recreation land dedication
or cash contribution in lieu of school site is not expended for the purposes
set forth herein within ten (10) years from the date of receipt, it shall be
refunded to the developer who made such contribution, upon receipt of a written
demand by said developer.
   A.   Fair Market Value: The cash contribution in lieu of land shall be based
on the "fair market value" of the acres of land in the area improved, as
specified herein, that otherwise would have been dedicated as park and
recreation and school sites. It has been determined that the present "fair
market value" of such improved land in and surrounding the village is
$          per acre and such figure shall be used in making any calculation
herein, except as provided in subsection B of this section or unless the
subdivider or developer files a written objection thereto. In the event of any
such written objection, the subdivider or developer shall submit an appraisal
showing the "fair market value" of such improved land in the area of his
development or other evidence thereof, and final determination of said "fair
market value" per acre of such improved land shall be made by the village board
based upon such information submitted by the subdivider or developer and from
other sources which may be submitted to the village board by village staff, the
park district, school district or others.
   B.   Criteria For Requiring Dedication And A Fee: There will be situations
in subdivisions or planned unit developments when a combination of land
dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when:
      1.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a park or school site. That portion of land within the subdivision
falling within the park or school location shall be dedicated as a site as
aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any
additional land that would have been required to be dedicated.
      2.   A major part of the local park or recreation site or school site has
already been acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the
development to complete the site. The remaining portions shall be required by
dedication, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required. (Ord.
2006-17, 7-17-2006)
12-5-5: DENSITY FORMULA:
   A.   The following table of population density is generally indicative of
current and short range projected trends in family size for new construction
and shall be used in calculating the amount of required dedication of acres of
land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof unless a written objection is
filed thereto by the subdivider or developer. Statistical data obtained from
the United States census bureau and/or other sources approved by the village
shall be deemed as acceptable sources of demographic data.
        Preschool Elementary Junior     Total      High School
                             High
Type Of           Grades K-5 Grades 6-8 Grades K-8 Grades 9- Adults
Unit                                               12
        0-4 Years 5-10 Years 11-13      5-13 Years 14-17     (18-Up) Total Per
                             Years                 Years             Unit
             Preschool Elementary Junior Total     High School
                                  High
Type Of Unit           Grades K-5 Grades Grades K- Grades 9- Adults
                                  6-8    8         12
             0-4 Years 5-10 Years 11-13  5-13      14-17     (18-Up) Total Per
                                  Years  Years     Years             Unit
Detached
single-                                                         
family:
 2 bedroom  0.113     0.136      0.048  0.184     0.02      1.7     2.017
 3 bedroom  0.292     0.369      0.173  0.542     0.184     1.881   2.899
 4 bedroom  0.418     0.53       0.298  0.828     0.36      2.158   3.764
 5 bedroom  0.283     0.345      0.248  0.593     0.3       2.594   3.77
Attached
single-
family:
 1 bedroom  -         -          -      -         -         1.193   1.193
 2 bedroom  0.064     0.088      0.048  0.136     0.038     1.752   1.99
 3 bedroom  0.212     0.234      0.058  0.292     0.059     1.829   2.392
 4 bedroom  0.323     0.322      0.154  0.476     0.173     2.173   3.145
Apartments:
 Efficiency -         -          -      -         -         1.294   1.294
 1 bedroom  -         -          0.001  0.003     0.001     1.754   1.758
 2 bedroom  0.047     0.086      0.042  0.128     0.046     1.693   1.914
 3 bedroom  0.052     0.234      0.123  0.357     0.118     2.526   3.053
 
   B.   In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to the
table of estimated ultimate population listed herein, he shall submit his own
demographic study showing the estimated additional population to be generated
from the subdivision or planned unit development, and in that event, final
determination of the density formula to be used in such calculations shall be
made by the village board based upon such demographic information submitted by
the subdivider or developer and from other sources which may be submitted to
the village board by the park district, school district, or others. It is
recognized that population density, age distribution and local conditions
change over the years, and the specific formula for the dedication of land, or
the payment of fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic
review and amendment if necessary. (Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2021-O-
21, 12-20-2021)
12-5-6: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND:
Where the comprehensive plan or the standards of the village call for a larger
amount of park and recreational land or school sites in a particular
subdivision or planned unit development than the developer is required to
dedicate, the land needed beyond the developer's contribution shall be reserved
for subsequent purchase by the village or other public body designated by the
village; provided, that such acquisition is made within one year from the date
of approval of the final plat. (Ord. 2006-17, 7-17-2006)
12-5-7: COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS:
Where the subdivision or planned unit development is less than forty (40)
acres, public open space or a school site which is to be dedicated should,
where possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining developments in
order to produce usable recreation areas or school sites without hardship on a
particular developer. (Ord. 2006-17, 7-17-2006)
12-5-8: TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING:
The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated site as well as its
surroundings must be suitable for its intended purposes. Grading on sites
dedicated for park and recreational uses shall not differ greatly from the
surrounding land. (Ord. 2006-17, 7-17-2006)
12-5-9: IMPROVED SITES:
All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electrical, water, sewer and streets (including enclosed drainage and curb and
gutter) as applicable to the location of the site, or acceptable provision made
therefor. The sidewalk and trees normally included with the definition of
"improved" sites may be deleted due to the delay time between dedication of any
such school site and construction of school facilities thereon. (Ord. 2006-17,
7-17-2006)
12-5-10: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR LAND DONATIONS:
   A.   All land donations required by this chapter shall be contiguous in one
location.
   B.   All land donations shall be in addition to any detention or retention
facilities and shall be measured in acres of land above the high water level.
No stormwater management areas shall be accepted as part or in whole of the
land donation requirement. (Ord. 2006-17, 7-17-2006)
12-5-11: APPLICATION TO ANNEXED LAND:
The dedication of land or cash contributions in lieu thereof required by this
chapter shall also be required as a condition to the annexation of any land to
the village, and provisions therefor shall be incorporated in any preannexation
agreement governing such land. (Ord. 2006-17, 7-17-2006)
12-5-12: WHERE AND WHEN PAYMENTS AND DEDICATIONS REQUIRED:
   A.   All dedication of lands herein will be to the village of Pingree Grove,
a municipal corporation, in a form approved by the village attorney.
   B.   All cash contributions will be payable to the village of Pingree Grove,
Illinois, and delivered to the village clerk.
   C.   All required dedications and payments required herein will be made
prior to the issuance of building permits by the village. (Ord. 2006-17, 7-17-
2006)
CHAPTER 6
FIGURES
SECTION:
12-6-1: Figure 1, Minimum Pavement Requirements
12-6-2: Figure 2, Street Geometric And Other Design Criteria
12-6-3: Figure 3, Letter Of Credit
12-6-1: FIGURE 1, MINIMUM PAVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Street Classification Minimum Pavement Requirements1
Street Classification             Minimum Pavement Requirements1
                                  6 inch aggregate base course
                                  8 inch PC concrete w/welded wire fabric
                                  - or -
                                  6 inch aggregate base course
Major arterial                    9 inch bituminous base course
                                  2 inch bituminous concrete binder course,
                                  type 2
                                  11/2 inch bituminous concrete surface course,
                                  C1, I, mixture D, type 1
                                  6 inch aggregate base course
                                  7 inch PC concrete w/welded wire fabric
                                  - or -
                                  6 inch aggregate base course
Secondary arterial                7 inch bituminous base course
                                  2 inch bituminous concrete binder course,
                                  type 2
                                  11/2 inch bituminous concrete surface course,
                                  C1, I, mixture D, type 1
Collector - industrial/commercial 6 inch aggregate base course
Local - industrial/commercial     8 inch PC concrete w/welded wire fabric
                                  - or -
                                  6 inch aggregate base course
                                  8 inch bituminous base course
                                  2 inch bituminous concrete binder course,
                                  type 3
                                  11/2 inch bituminous concrete surface course,
                                  C1, I, mixture C, type 3
                                  6 inch aggregate base course
                                  6 inch PC concrete
                                  - or -
                                  4 inch aggregate base course
Collector - residential           6 inch bituminous base course
                                  11/2 inch bituminous concrete binder course,
                                  type 3
                                  1 inch bituminous concrete surface course,
                                  C1, I, mixture C, type 3
                                  6 inch bituminous base course
                                  2 inch bituminous concrete surface course,
                                  C1, I, mixture C, type 3
                                  - or -
Local - residential               10 inch aggregate base course
                                  2 inch bituminous concrete binder course,
                                  type 3
                                  11/2 inch bituminous concrete surface course,
                                  C1, I, mixture C, type 3
 
Note:
   1.   Materials shall conform to IDOT "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", latest edition.
 
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
12-6-2: FIGURE 2, STREET GEOMETRIC AND OTHER DESIGN CRITERIA:
   STREET GEOMETRIC CRITERIA
Roadway        Major    Secondary Collector    Local        Collector     Local
Classification Arterial Arterial  (Industrial/ (Industrial/ (Residential) (Residential)
                                  Commercial)  Commercial)
Roadway        Major      Secondary  Collector    Local        Collector     Local
Classification Arterial   Arterial   (Industrial/ (Industrial/ (Residential) (Residential)
                                     Commercial)  Commercial)
Right of way   100 feet5  100 feet   80 feet      66 feet      80 feet       66 feet6
width
Roadway width  69 feet    43 feet    41 feet      39 feet      39 feet       31 feet
(B-B of curb)
                                     Industrial:  Industrial:
Sidewalk       6 feet     6 feet     n/a          n/a          5 feet        5 feet
width3,4                             Commercial:  Commercial:
                                     6 feet       6 feet
Curb type      B-6.24     B-6.12     B-6.12       B-6.12       B-6.12        B-6.12
               4 through  2 through  2 through                 2 through
Number of      lanes,     lanes,     lanes, plus  2 through    lanes, plus   2 through
traffic lanes  plus       plus       LT lanes at  lanes        LT lanes at   lanes
               median (16 median (16 major cross               major cross
               feet)      feet)      streets                   streets
Travel lane    12 feet    12 feet    13 feet      n/a          12 feet       n/a
width
Parking        Prohibited Prohibited Allowed -    Allowed -    Allowed - one Allowed -
                                     one side     one side     side          both sides
Minimum cul-
de-sac bulb    n/a        n/a        n/a          55 feet      n/a           50 feet
radius1
Maximum cul-   n/a        n/a        n/a          1,000 feet   n/a           750 feet
de-sac length
Minimum
stopping sight 325 feet   275 feet   200 feet     150 feet     200 feet      150 feet
distance
Maximum grade  6%         6%         6%           6%           6%            8%
Minimum gutter 0.50%      0.50%      0.50%        0.50%        0.50%         0.50%
grade
Design speed   45 mph     40 mph     30 mph       25 mph       30 mph        25 mph
Minimum
centerline     750 feet   575 feet   300 feet     175 feet     300 feet      175 feet
radius2
Minimum radius 35 feet    35 feet    40 feet      35 feet      30 feet       30 feet
return
Crown          2% minimum 5.2%       2% minimum   2% minimum   2% minimum    2% minimum
                          minimum
 
Notes:
   1.   Cul-de-sac ROW radius shall be 75 feet for commercial and industrial
streets and 60 feet for all others.
   2.   A tangent of at least 100 feet shall be introduced between reverse
curves on arterials.
   3.   Sidewalk shall be placed in public ROW 1 foot from the property line
unless otherwise approved by the director of public works.
   4.   Sidewalk designated as bike path shall be a minimum of 8 feet wide.
   5.   Unless otherwise indicated in an Illinois department of transportation
strategic regional arterial SRA report.
   6.   40 foot ROW required for frontage roads.
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
12-6-3: FIGURE 3, LETTER OF CREDIT:
Village of Pingree Grove
14N042 Reinking Road
Hampshire, IL 60140-8801
Date:
Number:
Account:
Expiration Date: (2 Years Minimum)
We hereby establish our Irrevocable Letter of Credit in your favor for the
account of (Developer), (Address), in the aggregate amount of $ available by
your draft drawn on sight and marked "Drawn Under (Financial Institution)",
dated and accompanied by the following document:
A signed statement by the Village or any other duly authorized official of the
Village of Pingree Grove, certifying that any portion of the improvements on
the Project, as specified in the plans and specifications for the Project known
as approved by the Village Engineer, have not been complied with in accordance
with said plans and specifications.
The improvements in the above-described Project shall be completed on or before
            . If said improvements have not been installed on or before that
date and approved by the Village Engineer, the Village is hereby granted
authority to draw on this Irrevocable Letter of Credit for the purpose of
completing said improvements, in accordance with the provisions herein and
above set forth. This Irrevocable Letter of Credit shall be utilized to secure
the installation of all improvements required under the Subdivision Control
Ordinance of the Village of Pingree Grove. This Irrevocable Letter of Credit
shall not operate as a limitation on the obligation of (Developer) to install
all improvements required by the Village of Pingree Grove.
The principal amount of this Irrevocable Letter of Credit shall not be reduced
for any improvements installed unless such reduction is approved by the Village
Engineer. The Village may submit its sight drafts as herein and above provided
without the consent of (Developer) or any other party. If within ten (10) days
of the date such draft is presented in conformance with the terms of this
Irrevocable Letter of Credit, we fail to honor same, we agree to pay all
attorneys' fees, court costs and other expenses incurred by the Village
enforcing the terms hereof.
We hereby agree that this Irrevocable Letter of Credit shall expire on       as
stated herein above: provided, however, that we shall notify the Village and
Village Engineer by certified mail, return receipt requested, at least ninety
(90) days prior to said expiration date that said Letter of Credit is about to
expire. In no event shall this Irrevocable Letter of Credit or the obligations
contained herein expire except upon prior written notice, it being expressly
agreed that the above expiration date shall be extended as shall be required to
comply with this notice provision.
Said drafts may be submitted for payment for a period of ninety (90) days
following the expiration date of this Irrevocable Letter of Credit, and said
draft shall be honored during the ninety (90) days, in accordance with the
terms and provisions herein contained.
(Signature of Bank Officer)
(Officer's Title)
SEAL
Subscribed and Sworn to before me this            day of      , 200    .
Notary Public.
This Irrevocable Letter of Credit is subject to the "Uniform Custom and
Practice for Documentary Credit, the International Chamber of Commerce
Publication #400 (Latest Revision)", except as herein and above modified.
(Ord. 2004-06, 4-19-2004)
